DRN-4109442
The complaint
Mr H complains that Evergreen Finance London Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, lent to 
him seven times in one year without carrying out the right checks.
What happened
Mr H applied for several loans over the period of the lending relationship, seven of which
were approved. I asked MoneyBoat about the other entries which appeared on the records it 
sent to me. And after it responded with those details I was able to create a comprehensive 
loan table which gave me a clearer overall picture of the lending relationship. I used this in 
the provisional decision issued to Mr H and MoneyBoat on 18 April 2023. 
Loans Date approved Amount 
Requested
(£)Other 
application 
outcomes*Repaid
1 3 August 2022 £500 - 15 September 2020
30 August 2020 £300 Ignored -
2 18 September 2020 £400 - 15 October 2020
23 September 2020 £500 Ignored -
3 25 October 2020 £500 - 13 November 2020
24 November 2020 £300 Declined -
8 January 2021 £300 Declined -
4 18 May 2021 £800 - 24 May 2021
5 8 June 2021 £400 - 9 June 2021
6 27 October 2021 £600 - 29 October 2021
7 26 December 2021 £550 - 4 January 2021
20 February 2022 £600 declined -
21 March 2022 £800 declined -
20 January 2023 £800 declined -
*MoneyBoat has explained:
applications may be declined for not meeting our internal lending criteria at that
time (this criterion is ever-changing and dependent upon market conditions (and
Covid at the time), current lending volumes/targets, regulatory guidance and attitudes
towards risk). Equally they be declined or ignored if the [sic] remained an outstanding
balance on a loan at time of application.
After Mr H had complained to MoneyBoat, which I can see from its account notes was
15 February 2022, it then issued a final response letter (FRL). It gave detailed reasons as to
why it considered its checks were good enough. This explanation included that MoneyBoat
had asked Mr H for copy payslips and it had obtained credit searches for each loan. It
already had the information Mr H had declared to it as part of his applications. And
MoneyBoat had emailed Mr H about his employment situation as the earlier loans had been
around the start of the Covid 19 pandemic lockdown periods.
MoneyBoat mentioned in its FRL that it had noticed that there was a six month gap between
Mr H paying off loan 3 and applying for loan 4 which it considered significant. Our
adjudicator had picked up on that point as well and had agreed with MoneyBoat. I come
back to this gap in the lending in the main part of the decision.
Mr H seems to have continued to fill in speculative loan applications even after he had
complained to MoneyBoat, the most recent one being January 2023 when Mr H had referred 
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
In its FRL, MoneyBoat did not accept it had done anything wrong but it did offer, as a good
will payment, a refund on the interest for the last three loans. It did not accept liability but
was seeking to resolve the complaint. Because Mr H had paid all his loans off quickly the
interest incurred had been relatively low and so the offered refund was around £40.
Mr H declined this offer and referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service in
May 2022. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and her first view was that she
did not consider MoneyBoat had done anything wrong. But because of the refund offer she
did not review the last three loans.
Mr H disagreed and the case was prepared to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
Our adjudicator checked whether the £40 refund offer was still available to Mr H. MoneyBoat
confirmed that it was not and so our adjudicator reviewed the complaint again and thought
that MoneyBoat had not done anything wrong when it granted the seven loans.
Mr H continued to disagree and so the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide.
Mr H had said:
If the correct checks were performed they would have seen that I was deep into a
£4700 overdraft with numerous gambling outgoings and multiple other debts with
other pay lenders. This means that they did not do the sufficient checks in order to
clarify the affordability of the loan.
It took many weeks to obtain the additional information I needed from MoneyBoat,
including the information about the other applications that were not funded (ignored or
declined). I also wanted to know when it had received Mr Hs copy bank account statements.
Our adjudicator did not have these additional details surrounding Mr Hs loan history which
I have now.
Mr H has sent to us the copy bank statements he wants us to review. They are screenshots
of extracts of his bank statements, not the full statements. 
Satisfied that I had all the information I needed to come to an informed provisional decision, 
I carefully reviewed it all and assessed each loan. I gave reasons for each loan as to why 
I did not think that the complaint should be upheld for Mr H for each of those loans. That 
provisional decision is duplicated here. It is in smaller type to differentiate it from this one.
What I provisionally decided  and why  18 April 2023. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr H could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks couldve considered several different things, such
as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Hs income and
expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr H. 
These factors include:
Mr H having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr H having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr H coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr H.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr H could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr H was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Hs complaint.
Bank account statements
Mr H has told us quite firmly that he sent to MoneyBoat his bank account statements during
the period he was applying to it for loans.
Whereas MoneyBoat has checked this at my request and is quite clear that it received one
copy payslip and three separate screenshots showing one bank account credit in each
screenshot  meaning when his salary was credited to the account. Mr H sent these to
MoneyBoat for loans 1, 2 and 3. They were not copy bank statements and were not lists of
bank transactions. MoneyBoat is clear that it only received the bank account statements
after Mr H had complained as part of its own complaints investigation process.
It said to us recently (original emphasis retained):
I can confirm that the only bank statements we received, were provided to us at the
time of complaint and not at time of application, prior to this we received some
payslips which I have attached for your records.
As well as this specific confirmation from MoneyBoat, I have reviewed the account notes
received from MoneyBoat and it does indicate to me that the bank account statements were
asked for after Mr H had complained on 15 February 2022.Before that, it had noted in those loan account records that Mr H had sent to it some
information which, as I have outlined earlier, were the screenshots of his bank account credit
transaction of £2,337 on 15 July 2020 (before loan 1) and his payslip for the same date. He
sent to MoneyBoat screenshots of two bank account credit transactions for September 2020
and October 2020 which likely were for loans 2 and 3, but no payslip copies for loans 2 and
loan 3.
So, I am now satisfied that Mr H did not actually send to MoneyBoat his copy bank
statements until after he had complained in February 2022.
Mr H has said in his complaint form to us that he was a gambling addict and so he
supposes that his bank statements were checked by MoneyBoat and this gambling would
have shown up. That plus he said he was £4,000 in his overdraft when requesting each loan.
So, it was important for me to establish when, if ever, MoneyBoat did obtain his copy bank
statements.
I was sorry to read of Mr Hs addiction and I hope that matters have improved since then.
Loans 1 to 3
I have reviewed all the financial information Mr H gave to MoneyBoat. He earned a good
salary  he declared a monthly income of around £2,250. He confirmed to MoneyBoat in an
email that he had been furloughed in April 2020 but was back working. He sent a payslip to
MoneyBoat. It carried out credit searches before each loan application and Mr H had three
accounts of which two were current accounts and in good shape. And one was a
telecommunications contract.
There were no adverse records on those three sets of credit searches carried out by
MoneyBoat. Mr H repaid the loans quickly. The amounts were for relatively modest amounts
and Mr H appears to have asked for instalment terms of between 2 and 4 months.
This combined with the one copy payslip it obtained plus the screenshots of the bank
account credit transaction leads me to think that MoneyBoat carried out proportionate
checks. For MoneyBoat to have done more for loans 1 to 3 would have been
disproportionate in my view and I would not have expected it to have done more for these
loans.
I plan not to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loans 1 to 3.
Gap in lending
The six month gap between paying off loan 3 and applying for loan 4 was significant enough,
usually, for me to consider that it would have been reasonable for MoneyBoat to have
approached Mr Hs application for loan 4 as if he had been a new customer. And I know that
our adjudicator did treat it as a break in the lending relationship.
But since our adjudicators view I have obtained further information which was that
MoneyBoat declined two applications from Mr H on the 24 November 2020 and then on the
8 January 2021.
And so, I do not consider that there was a total break. Mr H had continued to reapply and it had 
processed his applications. So, I am treating the whole lending relationship as one loan chain.
Loan 4
Mr H applied for a larger sum - £800  on 18 May 2021 and declared a monthly income of
£2,250. This net monthly declaration of monthly salary was much the same for each of the
applications according to the FRL. It increased to around £2,438 for loans 5, 6 and 7.
The credit search did reveal that Mr H had very little debt and had few accounts. Mr H hasmentioned that he had one account with a larger overdraft - £4,700  and that he was at the
top end of his limit. I have seen that the credit search carried out before approving loan 4 did
show Mr H had two current accounts  one which had a zero balance in March 2021 and the
other that his overdraft balance was £4,591 on a £4,700 overdraft limit.
This overdraft situation, plus the declined applications before this loan 4 application ought to
have placed MoneyBoat on notice that there were features of Mr Hs financial situation which
had led to those declined loans. I stipulate that its the combination of the declined loans plus
the overdraft situation which prompts me to say this. An overdraft on its own would not likely
have been of too much of a concern to a lender such as MoneyBoat. And I note that it did
not obtain any payslips or screenshots from Mr H then.
I think that MoneyBoat ought to have delved into Mr Hs financial situation for an £800 loan
which was for an amount double the declined loan applications a few months before. I dont think 
that MoneyBoat did that.
There are several ways it could have done this, and one way may have been to have
reviewed bank account statements. Although I acknowledge that this is not the only way to
check a persons full financial situation.
So, I have been provided with some of the bank account statements of Mr H around that
period and I have reviewed them to see what it was that MoneyBoat may have seen if they
had been requested and provided before approving loan 4.
The bank account screenshot I have from Mr H shows the MoneyBoat loan 4 £800 crediting
his account on 18 May 2021. All I can see before that are that on 17 May 2021 Mr H was
£2,345 overdrawn which was a reduction in the overdraft balance the credit search had told
MoneyBoat. Plus, the transactions do not look to have been anything of concern.
Any transactions on 18 May 2021 would not have been seen by MoneyBoat as they would
not have taken place as loan 4 was funded on 18 May 2021.
The other information Mr H had declared to MoneyBoat  income and expenditure  it has
outlined those figures in its FRL and overall they point to the loan being affordable. And
I have no information to contradict those amounts.
I plan not to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 4.
Loan 5
This was taken soon after loan 4 had been repaid very early (he had loan 4 for six days).
Again, with the previously declined loans, I consider that checking Mr Hs financial situation
would have been proportionate and prudent. The credit search MoneyBoat carried out
showed that the balance on that current account was now a fifth of what it had been  just
over a £1,000 into the overdraft whereas in May 2021 it had been almost at the limit of
£4,700.
The screenshot of Mr Hs bank account I have seen (sent by Mr H) shows me that his
overdraft was back up to around £4,671. So, its clear that this overdraft balance fluctuated a
great deal. 
But apart from that I cannot see any transactions between 4 and 9 June 2021
that would have caused MoneyBoat to consider that Mr H had a problem  either financial or
of a gambling nature.
Ive also reviewed the bank statements Mr H had sent to MoneyBoat as part of its complaint
investigation  which now has been established as having been sent after the loans were
approved. These are the same screenshots for May and June 2021 Mr H had sent to us. So,
my view doesnt change.
Again, the income and expenditure figures Mr H gave to MoneyBoat at loan 5 are set out inthe FRL, I have no figures to contradict them and so the loan repayments looked affordable.
So, I plan not to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 5.
Mr H paid off loan 5 on the day he took it.
Loan 6
Loan 6 was applied for over four months after he had repaid loan 5 early and this was some
distance in time away from the declined loans. And as Mr H had only been in debt with
MoneyBoat for a short time  a few days in May and June 2021 - its very likely that
MoneyBoat would have viewed that significant break as being an indication that Mr Hs
finances had not deteriorated.
The four month gap before applying again would not have given MoneyBoat any indication
that he was reliant on the credit it offered and so it would not likely have raised any concerns
when Mr H did reapply.
MoneyBoat carried out a further credit search and this time the current account with the
£4,700 overdraft was back up to almost its limit. But his overall debt had reduced.
And having reviewed the bank account statements screenshot Mr H has sent to us then
I have two points about those:
- the first is that it shows no gaming/betting transactions such that MoneyBoat would
have been alerted to a problem had it reviewed them at the time, and
- the second is that on 26 October 2021 it shows that Mr H took one other loan and
drew down on another type of credit facility. And so if Mr H had been asked for and
provided bank transaction lists for MoneyBoat then these two listed would not likely
have led to MoneyBoat declining the loan application. The other transactions on
27 October 2021 would not likely have been available to see on 27 October 2021.
And its own record with Mr H had been a positive lending relationship experience.
So, I plan not to uphold Mr Hs complaint about loan 6.
Loan 7
Mr H had repaid loan 6 in two days thereby adding to the good repayment record he had
with MoneyBoat.
It carried out a credit search and the overdraft facility had been paid down, the limit had been
reduced by the bank to £4,110 and the overdraft balance was at £3,911. The headline information 
MoneyBoat would have obtained from that credit search showed this:
Total Balances (All): £6,405
Total Balances (Loans/Installment Credit): £2,108
Total Balances (Revolving Credit/Budget): £386
Total Limits (Revolving Credit/Budget): £1,004
Balance to Limit Ratio (Revolving Credit/Budget): 38%
I do not consider this to have presented a poor credit picture.
Mr H had only five active accounts and the overall picture was relatively good.
Mr Hs income and expenditure figures set out in the FRL indicate that the loan was affordable.
So, the two main planks of Mr Hs submissions which were that his overdraft plus his bank
statements ought to have been reasons for MoneyBoat not to have lent to have him, have
not been established.I plan not to uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Loans in February and March 2022 and January 2023
I have not needed to look into these loans, as they were all declined and post-dated the
complaint of 15 February 2022. Its highly unlikely that MoneyBoat would lend to anyone who
had brought an irresponsible lending complaint to it.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties were given time to respond to my provisional decision. MoneyBoat has not 
responded. As the provisional decision was a non-uphold Id not necessarily expect to 
receive any additional submission from it. 
Mr H has responded in some detail and address those points here. Mr H has said:
I am surprised by this decision, given the fact I was gambling every day for a very 
long period of time the loans were all funded through out a period where I [sic] other 
multiple loans to pay off these loans at each point. Essentially robbing Peter to pay 
Paul.
Adequate searches were not performed to find out about my financial health and 
many loans were taken within a short period of time with this company and many 
others when I was experiencing extreme financial difficulty.
I am thoroughly disappointed that this is the conclusion to this case and have to bring 
into question the depth in which these checks are performed.
The ombudsman has clearly chosen to only take into account Moneyboats [sic] side 
of the story and this is very sad.
I suppose the financial institutions will essentially stick together and my account of 
the situation, my lack of affordability for the loans, the irresponsible lending and 
difficulty this caused me will mean very little.
I will not continue to pursue but I hope more thorough checks will be done in other 
cases similar to mine.
On the issues surrounding whether MoneyBoat had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mr H I have addressed that in the lengthy provisional decision sent in April 2023. 
Mr H had time to send in any further documents or bank statements or additional information 
and to make further submissions to me on the point but he has not done that. 
I took care and time to obtain from MoneyBoat the information I needed about when it was it 
saw Mr Hs bank account statements. It was important to know whether that was before the 
lending decisions were made or afterwards, and I established it was afterwards. I had asked 
Mr H about this but his answer was ambiguous and so I needed to be sure and checked it 
with MoneyBoat. This was important to assess just what MoneyBoat had seen  including its 
own credit searches  before lending to Mr H, to decide whether it had lent irresponsibly. I took time to compare the bank account statements from Mr H which hed sent to 
MoneyBoat after hed complained and the ones hed sent to us. They were the same. They 
were extracts and screenshots of some of the bank account statements for some of the 
lending relationship period and not the full picture. Thats a matter for Mr H. Hes been asked 
for them. Its up to Mr H what he chooses to send us. 
So, when Mr H says that hes disappointed at the depth in which these checks are 
performed. and but I hope more thorough checks will be done in other cases similar to 
mine. then there are two interpretations here. 
The first interpretation is that it may be Mr Hs criticisms are levelled at MoneyBoat. My 
observation is that I have addressed the point about the checks carried out by MoneyBoat in 
detail in my provisional and now my final decision. So, Id consider these issues surrounding 
adequate checks to have been answered.
The second interpretation is that those comments are aimed at the manner in which the 
Financial Ombudsman Service approaches a complaint. We are an informal complaint 
resolution service and I consider that this complaint is an example of where we have gone 
into detail. 
As for the comment that I have clearly chosen to only take into account Moneyboats [sic] 
side of the story then Mr H is incorrect. My approach across two decisions has been 
balanced and fair as required of me by the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Using the evidence I have from both parties, applying the regulations and approach to 
lending in these kinds of loan relationships and for the reasons I have set out in my 
provisional decision and which are repeated here, then I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman