DRN-3836681
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) failed to carry out his 
request to transfer funds from his current account. He says that the lengthy delay in this 
being actioned caused him considerable distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr A wrote to Halifax on a number of occasions informing it that he was jointly purchasing a 
house and would require a transfer of £10,000 from his account to an account with a 
different provider.
Halifax did not action this request, despite Mr A providing additional information and his 
sister attending a branch on his behalf. Halifax said that it did not hold a signature mandate 
for his account and therefore would require him to visit a branch or complete the transfer 
online.
Mr A says this was not possible as he was sheltering due to the Covid-19 pandemic and he 
did not have a computer to arrange an online transaction. Mr A therefore complained about 
this matter and was awarded £50, but this award was for a different matter, specifically for a 
response letter being sent to an incorrect address.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 December 2022 in which I upheld Mr As complaint. I 
have included an extract of my provisional decision below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Halifax does have the right, under the terms and conditions of the account, to ask 
for two forms of identification in order for a transfer to be carried out. That said, I do think 
Halifax could have been slightly more flexible as it was, after all, satisfied it was dealing with 
Mr A during the complaint process and it was clear that he still wished to carry out this 
transaction. So I am slightly confused as to why, during the entire complaint process, Mr A 
was not passed through to a department to carry out the transfer he clearly still wanted to 
action. I see that the transfer was not carried out until more than two months after the final 
response was issued in March 2022. I think that this couldve been prevented.
In any event, this whole process seems to have been started because Halifax did not have a 
signature mandate for Mr A. I am satisfied, albeit on balance, that one wouldve been 
provided when the account was opened in 2019. And therefore I think that it is more likely 
than not that the delay Mr A experienced in making the transfer was caused by Halifax being 
unable to locate the mandate. 
Given this, I think that Mr A should receive appropriate compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience that he experienced as a result of Halifaxs failure to locate the mandate for 
his account. The transfer of funds was for a house purchase and the funds being delayed 
would have, in my opinion, caused some distress and inconvenience to Mr A. For example, I 
note that Mr A made a number of calls and wrote a number of letters to Halifax to try and 
resolve matters, before this matter was rectified. Overall and having considered everything, 
especially the circumstances around what the transfer of money was for, I currently think that 
Halifax should pay Mr A £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience that this matter has 
caused him.
Putting things right
Currently I think that Halifax should pay Mr A £200 in addition to the £50 already paid.
In response to this provisional decision Halifax in summary raised the following points
It was not Mr As main current account and it had little contact with him about this 
account
Halifax was entitled to request additional documents from Mr A to protect him from 
scams
Mr A did not update his address prior to moving to Ireland
Mr A was provided with an alternative way to action the transfer in its letter in March 
2022
Mr A in response to my provisional decision reiterated the various issues that he had 
encountered during this process. He also said that he believes that the compensation that he 
should receive should be £500 to reflect that he had to travel to a branch in the United 
Kingdom (UK) to rectify this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In relation to the points that Halifax has made, I think that it is missing the fact that if it were 
not for it mislaying Mr As signature mandate, this whole issue would have been either 
avoided or at the very least lessened. I dont think it is not particularly relevant how often Mr 
A used the account prior to this issue or if it was Mr As main account. Mr A had paid funds 
into the account and when attempting to withdraw the funds he was unable to because 
Halifax did not have a signature mandate. This mandate would have been provided during 
the opening of the account in 2019 it was not unreasonable to expect Halifax to have 
retained this mandate for three years regardless of account usage.
In relation to Mr A changing address without informing Halifax, this only became a major 
issue because of the above as he could always have changed his address with one letter if 
Halifax had retained the signature mandate.I accept that Halifax did indeed give Mr A another route to actioning the transfer. That said, I 
am mindful this was not mentioned in its initial final response in which it essentially said 
there was nothing else that it could do. I also can see that Mr A was in phone contact with a 
complaint handler at this point who has said in the call notes that there was nothing Halifax 
could do and Mr A would have to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman service. I 
think this initial response to Mr As complaint could have been more helpful considering that 
the issue was ongoing and Mr A still needed to transfer the money. It may have been the 
case that the branch that Mr A was in contact with gave him the alternative route to actioning 
the transfer, though I have not been provided that correspondence. But by essentially saying 
in the initial final response that there was nothing that Halifax could do I think that this issue 
was initially lengthened. 
In relation to Mr As points, I would like to assure him that I have considered everything that 
he has mentioned. I will not attempt to address them all here, not due to discourtesy but 
rather to reflect the informal nature of this service. I note that he believes he should receive 
increased compensation to include the costs he incurred traveling to the UK but by this point 
Halifax had provided an alternative way of actioning the transfer. Mr A has mentioned that he 
tried this avenue but was placed on hold etc. I appreciate that it wouldve been inconvenient 
to go through this process and mayve taken some time to arrange for the money to be 
transferred. But Mr A was given an option to transfer the money without needing to attend a 
UK branch. As such, I dont think it is reasonable that Halifax should bear the cost of Mr As 
decision to travel to the UK. 
Overall, I remain of the opinion that Mr A experienced an element of distress and 
inconvenience because Halifax had somehow lost the signature mandate form from when Mr 
A opened his account. And having considered everything, I still think the redress set out in 
my provisional decision is appropriate given the circumstances of this complaint. It seems 
that this will potentially disappoint both parties, but I hope I have explained why I have 
reached this outcome.
I would like to, for the sake of completeness, explain to Mr A that this decision represents the 
last stage in our process. Therefore, we are unable to discuss the merits of this complaint 
further. That said, if Mr A doesnt accept my decision, Mr A may be able to pursue this 
complaint elsewhere such as court if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, it is my decision that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax 
should pay Mr A £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
This is in addition to the £50 already paid to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman