DRN-2565334
The complaint
Mr D complains as a director of O, a limited company, about the sale of a legal expenses 
insurance policy by Towergate. He says the policy did not meet Os needs.
What happened
Mr D contacted Towergate in 2015 to obtain an insurance policy for his business, O. While 
the main requirement was for business protection insurance, Mr D was also interested in 
obtaining legal expenses cover.
Towergate sourced an insurance policy for a small to medium business and confirmed that it 
would include legal expenses cover. Mr D accepted the quote and took out the insurance.
When the policy came up for renewal in 2016 Towergate advised that the underwriters were 
withdrawing from the market so that policy was no longer available. Towergate 
recommended another policy with a different insurer. The policy was for small and medium 
enterprises and again a legal expenses section was attached to the policy.
In November 2016 Towergate forwarded a copy of the new policy to Mr D. He said the legal 
expenses section wasnt included in the document hed received. Towergate sent a copy of 
the legal expenses wording to him the same day. Mr D emailed Towergate soon after 
confirming that he wanted to go ahead with the policy and returned the signed statement of 
fact together with his payment details. 
The following year the policy was renewed with the same insurer and policy terms as before. 
Mr D then made a claim on behalf of O on the legal expenses policy but the claim wasnt 
covered by the policy. He was unhappy about this and complained that the policy wasnt 
suitable for Os needs and had been mis-sold.
Towergate said its focus was on sourcing a commercial combined policy for the business, 
the legal expenses policy was an add on and it sent a copy of the wording at the time so 
Mr D could consider it and make an informed decision. It said the policy was suitable for 
small and medium sized businesses and provided cover for a range of circumstances typical 
of those encountered by those businesses. So it didnt think it had done anything wrong in 
selling the policy.
When Mr D then brought the complaint to this service, our investigator didnt think it should 
be upheld, agreeing that the policy was suitable for a small or medium sized business such 
as O. Mr D disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied this was an advised sale, where Towergate recommended the policy as meeting 
Os needs. When recommending an insurance product to a customer a business must take 
reasonable care to ensure the suitability of the product it is offering. When checking 
suitability, Id expect Towergate to establish the customers demands and needs and take 
reasonable care that the policy being offered is suitable for those needs. It should also 
provide enough information about the policy to allow the customer to make an informed 
choice. 
This complaint concerns the policy sold in 2016 and renewed in 2017. But I think its helpful 
to refer to the previous policy, as the later policy followed on from that.
When he approached Towergate, Mr D explained that he was looking for business insurance 
for O to cover the risks of running a business. While Im satisfied Mr D wanted to include 
legal expenses cover, the main needs hed made Towergate aware of was for a policy that 
would cover a small business and the risks associated with that. Although he asked to 
include legal expenses cover, he didnt set out any special requirements or specific cover 
that he wanted to be included in this.
The policy covered the typical sorts of risks for a small business including cover for 
employers liability, business interruption and asset protection. It also included a section on 
legal expenses for insured incidents like employment disputes, personal injury and 
compensation awards. Having reviewed the policy I think it was a suitable for Os needs as 
explained to Towergate, as it covered the areas that would be expected in a small business 
policy.
Legal expenses cover was a part of the insurance that Towergate recommended. Mr D 
asked about landlord disputes under this insurance and Towergate indicated that the policy 
wouldnt cover Mr D in pursuing a claim against a landlord.
In 2016 Towergate had to find a new policy for O as the original insurance was no longer 
available. It provided the policy documents from the new insurer for Mr D to consider. 
Following his query about the legal expenses wording Towergate also forwarded a copy of 
this. After considering the documents Mr D accepted the quote and took out the insurance a 
few days later.
The new policy recommended by Towergate was again specific to small businesses and 
contained cover for the risks that could be associated with running a business like O. The 
legal expenses contained its own policy wording and was titled SME Business Owners & 
Property Owners (Including Unoccupied) Legal Solutions. There were two parts to this 
policy  one for the risks associated with the property owned by the business and another for 
the typical legal disputes that might arise as a result of running a business. As with the 
previous policy it would cover incidents like employment disputes, personal injury and 
compensation awards that might occur in the day to day running of a small business.
I appreciate that a section of the policy wouldnt have applied to O as it didnt own the 
property where it traded. But the other part of the legal expenses cover was relevant to Os 
circumstances. I think its clear O had a potential need for the cover provided by this policy. 
The policy would have covered the various insured incidents set out in the policy had O 
needed to use them. On that basis I consider it was suitable.
In 2017 Towergate told Mr D the policy was still suitable and recommended that he renew it. 
Towergate didnt provide any new policy wording but thats because the insurer had not 
changed the policy and the cover remained the same. While it may have been helpful to 
provide the policy wording again I dont think Towergate acted incorrectly by not doing so  it 
confirmed that the policy was the same, it still met the needs in the renewal statement and if 
there had been any changes it would have communicated this. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances to explain that the policy hadnt changed and was the same as the 
previous year. Mr D had the policy wording from the 2016/17 policy.
Mr D didnt contact Towergate at the renewal to discuss any different needs O might have. 
So Towergate used the information they already had to check that the policy was still 
suitable. As I have said above, I think the policy recommended met the needs of a small 
business and the typical sorts of legal incidents that may be relevant to such a business. For 
these reasons, I dont think the policy was unsuitable for Os needs or that it was wrong for 
Towergate to recommend it.
Mr D complained about the insurance being unsuitable after he discovered he didnt have 
cover for a claim against his landlord. The fact that one particular claim is not covered 
doesnt necessarily mean the policy as a whole isnt suitable. No policy will cover every 
possible claim that might conceivably arise. If Mr D had made it clear there was a particular 
need for specific types of cover and the policy didnt include the things hed specified, its 
possible the policy wouldnt be suitable. But that isnt what happened here..
Even if there were failings in the way the policy was sold (and for the reasons given, I dont 
think there were) I would need to consider not just what Towergate did, but whether Mr D 
would have acted differently had it not been for those failings. Before taking out the 2015/16 
policy Mr D did ask about whether O would be covered for landlord disputes and Towergate 
said there wasnt cover for this. If this had been such an important requirement when taking 
out the insurance, I dont think he would have gone ahead with the policy once he knew it 
wasnt covered. Knowing that the policy didnt include this, Mr D still went ahead. So even if 
there was an error in the sale of the later policy, I dont think Mr D would have acted 
differently but for that error.
Mr D said there were better policies available that would have been better suited to Os 
needs. Hes referred to one insurer but the details provided only give a summary of the types 
of cover it offers, which are broadly the same as Os policy. There may have been other 
policies that were suitable to his needs, and possibly policies that covered disputes with 
landlords. But that doesnt mean the policy Towergate recommended wasnt suitable for the 
demands and needs it was aware of at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman