DRN-2971814
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the amount they paid for their U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
home insurance policy.
Mr M has dealt with the complaint throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points.
Mr M has held home insurance with UKI since 2012. The policy renewed annually.
Prior to the 2021 renewal, Mr M got in touch with UKI. He noticed the premium was 
around three times the amount he paid in 2012. He thought this meant hed been 
overcharged and treated unfairly by UKI. He also said he hadnt received renewal 
documents over the years and thought this meant UKI had renewed the policy and 
changed his direct debit without his agreement.
UKI said the premiums were in line with its pricing structure. And it had sent renewal 
documents to Mr M each year. As he didnt respond, and it didnt receive the 
documents back as undelivered, it had assumed he agreed to renew the policy. But 
it said it was right to recognise Mr Ms loyalty and paid him a total of £1,400.
Our investigator thought UKI should have realised by 2015 that Mr M hadnt been 
engaging in the renewal process and was at risk of being treated unfairly by further 
premium increases. Taking the 2015 premium as a benchmark, she considered the 
refund of £1,400 had put things right because it had effectively refunded the later 
premium increases, with interest.
Mr M didnt think this went far enough. He noted that the 2015 premium was twice 
the 2012 premium. He didnt think the 2015 premium was a fair benchmark and 2012 
should be used instead.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has questioned whether it was fair for UKI to renew his policy and change his direct 
debit over the years. Ill explain how renewals typically happen in home insurance.
Most home insurance policies are annual contracts. That means theres no obligation for the 
policyholder or the insurer to continue the policy the following year  or if they do choose to 
continue with it, theres no obligation to do so on the same terms or at the same price.
If they offer to renew the policy, insurers are required to set out what the new terms and 
price will be for the next year. Policyholders can accept, negotiate, or reject the offer as they 
see fit.
Because of this, insurers arent required to maintain the same price at renewal  or inform 
policyholders that the price offered at later renewals may change. If a policyholder thinks a 
price increase is too high, they can simply reject the offer and take out a policy elsewhere.
Many insurers offer to renew policies automatically. Whilst they must still set out the new 
terms and price, unless the policyholder actively engages with the insurer to negotiate or 
reject the offer, it means the policy will continue on the new terms and at the new price. 
Where the insurer has offered to renew the policy at a higher price, the direct debit will 
automatically change. This isnt unfair in principle as many policyholders appreciate the 
reassurance of knowing insurance for their home will continue. And if a policyholder doesnt 
want to renew their policy this way, they can choose not to.
I understand Mr M took his policy out over the phone in 2012. As a result, theres little 
information available about that now. UKI has shown that Mr Ms policy records were set to 
automatically renew. It says this means he likely agreed to automatic renewal when he took 
out the policy. Its also shown a template renewal document which makes clear that the 
policy will renew automatically.
Mr M says he didnt receive renewal documents from UKI for many years. UKI doesnt keep 
copies of all the renewal documents it sends to all its customers. It has template documents 
that are automatically completed with each customers details and sent to them. This is a 
common approach for insurers to take. Internal screenshots provided by UKI show a record 
of renewal documents printed each year  a quote around a month before the renewal date 
and acceptance shortly after. And UKI held the correct address for Mr M on its system, so 
its likely the documents were correctly addressed when printed.
UKI has sent Mr M copies of template documents to show what was likely to have been sent 
to him over the years. As its a template, some of the information was blank or incomplete. 
Nonetheless, I think it supports what UKI has said about how it communicated with Mr M.
Overall Im persuaded UKI likely agreed with Mr M to renew the policy automatically. And 
sent renewal documents to confirm the policy would automatically renew at the new price. 
Because of that, Im satisfied UKI acted fairly. It took the appropriate steps to make Mr M 
aware of what would happen to his policy, giving him the chance to make other 
arrangements if he wished.
I recognise Mr M says he didnt receive the documents. But as UKI has shown it sent them 
to the correct address, thats not something I can hold UKI responsible for.
Mr M considers hes been overcharged by UKI for his policy over the years. Whilst UKI has 
maintained it charged Mr M in line with its pricing structure, its paid him £1,400. This is 
based on taking the 2015 premium of around £700 as a benchmark and refunding all 
premiums over this amount paid by Mr M in subsequent years  plus interest. This effectively 
means Mr Ms premium was capped at £700 from 2015 onwards.
Mr M doesnt think 2015 is a fair benchmark. He notes the initial premium in 2012 was 
around £350, so the price had doubled by 2015. I can understand why this appears to be a 
significant increase. Mr M would like UKI to use the initial premium as the benchmark.
UKI has explained that the 2012 premium included a new business discount. Many insurers 
offer this kind of introductory discount to new policyholders. Its usually phased out gradually over the next few years. UKI has shown that the underlying amount it thought was right for 
providing insurance to Mr M didnt change much up to 2015. But the impact of removing the 
discount was to increase the premium Mr M was charged.
Because of this, I dont think it would be fair to take the initial premium as the benchmark. It 
would effectively require UKI to maintain an introductory discount for the duration of the 
policy. I accept Mr M may have been able to obtain premiums, including this kind of 
discount, with other insurers if hed shopped around each year. But as Ive found UKI 
communicated with him fairly about his premium, Im not persuaded UKI has prevented him 
from being able to shop around.
Based on the figures Ive seen, by 2015 I think UKI had removed the discount entirely and 
the premium it was charging represented the full amount it thought was right for providing 
insurance to Mr M. For that reason, Im satisfied it was reasonable to treat 2015 as the 
benchmark year. Ive seen the calculations carried out by UKI, including adding interest, and 
Im satisfied £1,400 is a reasonable amount to cover the premium increases beyond £700 
after 2015. So I wont be asking UKI to pay anything further.
UKI has said Mr M made a claim in 2015. He recalls asking UKI for advice  but not making 
a claim  so hes concerned this may have impacted the price he was charged. UKI has 
shown it logged a claim, but this wasnt taken into account when the premiums were 
calculated. And it was logged after the 2015 renewal, so it couldnt have contributed to any 
increases before that time. Any increases after that time have been refunded. So Im 
satisfied the logged claim hasnt had any impact on the amount Mr M has paid.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman