DRN-3608348
The complaint
Mrs D complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down claims she made on a
travel insurance policy.
Mrs Ds represented by Ms S.
What happened
Mrs D has travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with her building society.
On 18 January 2020, Mrs D flew to a country Ill call A. She was due to return to the UK on
20 March 2020. However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs D wasnt able to return
to the UK on the date shed planned.
Mrs D was ultimately able to return to the UK on 8 September 2020. During her extended
stay, Mrs D had incurred some medical expenses, as well as flight amendment costs. So
she made claims on her travel insurance policy for the costs shed incurred.
UKI turned down Mrs Ds claims. It said that the policy only provided cover for trips of up to
31 days duration unless a trip extension upgrade had been purchased. Mrs Ds original trip
had been booked for around 60 days, but she hadnt taken out a trip extension upgrade. As
both the flight amendment and medical expenses costs had been incurred after the 31 day
trip limit had expired, UKI said Mrs Ds claims werent covered. However, it acknowledged
that thered been some delay in communicating this to Mrs D and so it paid her a total of
£125 compensation.
Mrs D was unhappy with UKIs decision and so she asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought itd been fair for UKI to conclude that Mrs Ds claim wasnt covered,
as the costs had been incurred after the 31 day limit had passed. But he thought that UKI
should increase its compensation payment to a total of £225 to recognise the impact its
handling of the claim had had on her.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 June 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I thought UKI had treated Mrs D fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered, amongst other
things, the terms of Mrs Ds policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether
UKI treated her fairly.
Was it fair for UKI to turn down Mrs Ds claim?
Ive first considered the policy terms, as these represent the contract between Mrs D and
UKI. Page two of the policy includes a section called Booking a Trip. This includes the
following question:
Is your trip for more than 31 days?
This policy covers you for trip of up to 31 days. If your trip is longer you can purchase a Trip
Extension Upgrade. This must be done before your departure from the UK. Further details
on how to do this can be found on page 6.
Page six of the policy sets out a section called Operation of Cover and Upgrades. This
includes the following sub-heading:
Trip Length
This policy provides cover for trips of up to 31 days. If your return to your home area is
delayed beyond the scheduled end date of your trip for reasons outside your control we will
automatically extend cover until your new return date. If you are planning a longer trip you
can extend your cover by buying a Trip Extension Upgrade (Winter sports trips cannot be
extended beyond 31 days).
On page 15, UKI has set out the General Conditions which apply to the policy. This includes
a term called Changes that may affect your cover. Immediately underneath, this states:
You must tell us as soon as possible about any changes that could affect your cover, for
example if:
 You book a trip lasting more than 31 days.
 You are diagnosed with a medical condition  see Medical Screening, page 8.
 You are about to turn 70.
In my view, the policy terms clearly set out that the trip length limit will be 31 days. Thats
unless a trip extension upgrade has been purchased for an additional premium. I dont think
the policy is unclear or ambiguous on this point. This means then that in order for a
policyholder to have full policy cover for a trip lasting longer than the standard trip length
limit, theyd need to have purchased the upgrade.
Theres no dispute that in this case, the original booked trip appeared to be of 60 days
duration. And having looked closely at the policy paperwork Mrs D has sent us, while I can
see she paid an additional premium for the policy age extension and she declared her
medical conditions, she hadnt taken out or paid for the trip extension upgrade. So it seems
to me that UKI hadnt agreed to cover Mrs D for the full duration of her trip.
Ive carefully considered the claims information Mrs D sent to UKI. Its clear that Mrs D didnt
amend her original flight booking until some weeks after 31 days had passed  which was
around 17 February 2020. I accept that Mrs Ds return to the UK was extended for reasons
beyond her control, but the cause of this delay didnt happen until March 2020. So I wouldnt
have reasonably expected UKI to automatically extend the trip limit in these circumstances.
Neither did Mrs D incur any medical expenses until after some time after the 31 day trip limit
had expired. I can understand what a worrying time this mustve been for Mrs D, as her trip
had been extended for reasons beyond her control and because she needed treatment and
medication. And I appreciate why Mrs D would like UKI to cover the costs she incurred.But based on what Ive seen, I currently dont think UKI acted unfairly when it concluded Mrs
Ds claim costs were incurred outside the period of cover provided by its contract. And so I
dont intend to tell UKI to pay her claims.
Was the compensation paid by UKI fair and reasonable?
UKI accepts that there were delays in its handling of Mrs Ds claims. In its final response to
her complaint, it said that itd had enough information to decline her claims at the outset,
when they were made on 17 September 2020. Instead, UKI requested that Mrs D provide
further information in support of her claims. While it appears from UKIs notes that it
indicated to Mrs D on 5 November 2020 that her claims wouldnt be paid without evidence
that shed taken the age extension upgrade, it didnt give her a clear answer on both claims
until mid-December 2020. So it seems to me that UKI believes it couldve given Mrs D the
answer on her claims around three months sooner than it did.
I appreciate that sending in paperwork unnecessarily and having calls with UKI during the
claims process wouldve put Mrs D to some time and inconvenience. And I dont doubt how
upsetting it mustve been when she learned that her claims had been turned down. But I also
need to bear in mind that at the time UKI was assessing Mrs Ds claims, Covid-19 had had
an unprecedented impact on travel insurers processes and operations. And I also think it
was reasonable for UKI to check that all of the costs Mrs D had incurred had fallen outside of
the 31 day trip limit. Id add too that whether UKI had turned down Mrs Ds claim in
September 2020 or December 2020, shed always likely have found this to be distressing.
So in my view, I currently think the compensation of £125 that UKI has already paid Mrs D is
fair and reasonable to recognise the impact any delay in its claims handling process had on
her. And this means that Im not planning to direct UKI to pay anything more.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or information they wanted to me to 
consider.
UKI had nothing more to add.
Ms S disagreed with my provisional findings. She said that when Covid-19 had hit, she and 
Mrs D had been unable to contact anyone from UKI for months. By the time they had got 
through (months later), it had been too late to renew the policy. Mrs D had told UKI that she 
was coming for a long holiday and shed been given the wrong policy. Ms S felt UKI had 
taken advantage of Mrs D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs D, I think UKI has treated her fairly 
and Ill explain why.
As I set out in my provisional decision, the terms of Mrs Ds contract with UKI say that in 
order to be covered for longer than 31 days, Mrs D needed to buy a travel extension 
upgrade prior to her departure from the UK. The available paperwork shows me that whilst 
Mrs D did buy worldwide cover and an age extension, she didnt purchase the trip extension. 
Mrs D departed the UK on 18 January 2020 and cover under the standard policy ended on 
around 17 February 2020  around six weeks before Mrs Ds trip had been due to end.
Covid-19 wasnt declared to be a pandemic by the World Health Organisation until 11 March 2020  some weeks after cover under Mrs Ds policy ended. So whilst I understand how 
worrying it mustve been for Mrs D when her return travel plans were disrupted because of 
Covid-19 and when she was unable to get through to UKI, it was no longer providing travel 
insurance cover for that particular trip. Mrs D was already abroad at this point and had been 
for some time. And as policy cover had already ended, I dont think UKI wouldve been 
prepared to allow Mrs D to buy a trip extension even if Mrs D or Ms S had been able to 
speak to it in March 2020. 
Ms S says that Mrs D told UKI she was going on a long holiday and that she was therefore 
given the wrong policy. Ive thought about this and I accept its possible that UKI did make a 
mistake. But I also need to bear in mind that UKIs records state that on 21 December 2020, 
UKIs call handler asked Mrs D if shed told the sales team her trip dates and it seems that 
Mrs D answered no. The records show that Mrs D told UKI that shed taken out the age and 
worldwide extensions. So on balance, I dont think theres enough evidence for me to safely 
conclude that Mrs D did tell UKI her trip dates or that it sold her the wrong policy.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mrs Ds position, as I appreciate shes been left out of 
pocket and she found herself in a worrying situation, I think UKI treated her reasonably and 
made a fair payment of compensation. So Im not directing it to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman