DRN-3173537
The complaint
Miss D complains that Zavarovalnica Sava DD unfairly declined her claim on a motor
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Zavarovalnica Sava DD or the insurer, I include claims-handlers and others
insofar as I hold Zavarovalnica Sava DD responsible for their actions. 
What happened
The subject matter of Miss Ds claim and this complaint is a hatchback first registered in
2013. In March 2019, Miss D agreed a price of about £11,000.00 for the car and acquired it
on finance.
From June 2020, Miss D had the car insured, through an intermediary, with Zavarovalnica
Sava DD. She was the policyholder. The policy didnt cover any other driver.
The section of the policy dealing with theft excluded the following:
6. Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if your car was taken by a
member of your family or household.
The general exclusions started as follows:
General exclusions which apply to all sections of this policy
We will not pay:
1. for any liability, loss, damage, cost or expenses which takes place while any car
insured under this policy is:
a) 
b) driven by someone who:
i. does not have a valid driving licence; or
ii. 
iii. is not specifically named on your certificate of motor insurance as being
entitled to drive your car.
However, this exception does not apply if your car is:
a) 
b) stolen or taken away without your permission, this includes someone who lives
with you or family member if you can prove that they intended to permanently
deprive you of your car.
Miss D had been in a relationship with a Mr K. He was not covered by her insurance policy.
On the morning of Saturday 23 January 2021, Mr K had been at Miss Ds home since the
night before. He hit her, damaged items in her home, took her car key and drove off in the
car. He seriously damaged it in a collision with two other vehicles.
On Monday 25 January 2021, Miss D made a claim to the insurer. It appointed an
investigator and later declined the claim. Miss D complained to the intermediary about that.
By a final response dated mid-March 2021, the intermediary turned down the complaint.
Miss D brought her complaint to us later that month.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator dealt with the complaint as a complaint against the intermediary. Our
investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that Mr Ks
intention was to permanently deprive Miss D of her vehicle without her consent. Our
investigator didnt think Mr K was a household member. Our investigator recommended
that the intermediary should pay out Miss Ds claim from the date she initially put the claim
through.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss D  
and to Zavarovalnica Sava DD on 22 October 2021. I summarise my findings:
The Financial Ombudsman Service treats a complaint about a claim under an 
insurance policy as a complaint against the insurer that was responsible for dealing 
with that claim. So I was treating Miss Ds complaint as a complaint against 
Zavarovalnica Sava DD. I was treating the actions of the intermediary (including the 
final response) as actions of Zavarovalnica Sava DD .
Mr K was more likely to have been joy-riding rather than intending permanently to 
deprive Miss D of her car. 
Id not been satisfied that the exclusions were clear or intelligible. Id not been 
satisfied that the insurer adequately highlighted the exclusions as significant and 
unusual terms at the time of sale. 
Id not been satisfied that Mr K was  at the time of the loss  someone who lived 
with Miss D or who was a member of her family or household. 
I hadnt found that Miss D was careless or reckless with her key or the car.
For these reasons I was minded that the insurer treated Miss D unfairly by its
decision to turn down her claim.
Subject to any further information from Miss D or from Zavarovalnica Sava DD, my 
provisional decision was that I upheld this complaint . I intended to direct Zavarovalnica 
Sava DD to:
1. meet Miss Ds claim in line with the terms of the policy but without reliance on the 
exclusions and conditions quoted above; and
2. pay Miss D simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on any amount it pays in settlement 
of her claim from the date of her claim to the date of its payment. If Zavarovalnica 
Sava DD considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss D how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss D a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. pay Miss D £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Miss D accepts the provisional decision.Zavarovalnica Sava DD hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
So I see no reason to change my view. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service treats a complaint about a claim under an insurance
policy as a complaint against the insurer that was responsible for dealing with that claim. So
Im treating Miss Ds complaint as a complaint against Zavarovalnica Sava DD. Im treating
the actions of the intermediary (including the final response) as actions of Zavarovalnica
Sava DD .
The criminal offence of theft includes a number of elements. One of these is an intention
permanently to deprive the owner. That element is missing in the case of temporary joy-
riding.
There is a separate criminal offence of taking a vehicle without the owners consent
(TWOC). TWOC is an offence under the Theft Act. In the context of an insurance claim, I 
find it fair and reasonable that theft should include TWOC.
Most policies have an exclusion for theft by a family member. But most policies make that
exclusion subject to an exception if the policyholder co-operates with the police in
investigating or prosecuting the family member.
Ive noted the newspaper article found by the insurers investigator. It relates to Mr K driving
the car with Miss D as a passenger. But that was in February or March 2020. And  in the
context of Mr Ks criminal past and abusive relationship with Miss D - I dont place much
weight on this earlier incident as evidence of what happened on 23 January 2021.
Miss D took out the policy for a year from mid-June 2020.
The policy had a section on damage to the vehicle. But that excluded the following:
11. Loss or damage as a result of theft, attempted theft, fire, lightning, or explosion
under this section of the policy
That was an unqualified exclusion of damage caused by any theft. I think that was because
there was a separate section of the policy dealing with theft and damage arising from theft.
As Ive said, the section of the policy dealing with theft excluded the following:
6. Loss or damage caused by theft or attempted theft if your car was taken by a
member of your family or household
That was an unqualified exclusion of damage caused by theft by a member of the
policyholders family or household.
As Ive also said, The general exclusions started as follows:
General exclusions which apply to all sections of this policy
We will not pay:
1. for any liability, loss, damage, cost or expenses which takes place while any carinsured under this policy is:
a) 
b) driven by someone who:
i. does not have a valid driving licence; or
ii. 
iii. is not specifically named on your certificate of motor insurance as being
entitled to drive your car.
However, this exception does not apply if your car is:
a) 
b) stolen or taken away without your permission, this includes someone who lives
with you or family member if you can prove that they intended to permanently
deprive you of your car.
That wasnt an unqualified exclusion of damage caused by theft or TWOC by a cohabitant or
family member. It had an exception if the policyholder could prove that the cohabitant or
family member intended permanently to deprive the policyholder of her vehicle.
But that exception to the exclusion was at odds with the earlier unqualified exclusion of
damage caused by theft by a member of the policyholders family or household. So Im not
satisfied that the exclusions were clear or intelligible.
And neither of those exclusions had an exception if the policyholder co-operates with the
police in investigating or prosecuting the family member. So the exclusions were significant
and unusual.
Zavarovalnica Sava hasnt provided any other information to show how it highlighted the
exclusions at the point of sale. So Im not satisfied that it adequately highlighted the
exclusions as significant and unusual terms at that time.
Ive seen a tenancy agreement dated October 2020 relating to Miss Ds home. And the
policy schedule shows cover from early November 2020 at that address. So I think the
insurer amended the schedule because of the change of address.
The tenancy agreement shows Miss D was the sole tenant and the tenancy didnt t permit
any other occupier. Miss D has also sent us a council tax bill showing a discount for sole
occupancy. But that relates to the year from April 2021  so it isnt further evidence of sole
occupancy at the time of the theft.
The insurers investigator reported Miss D having said the following:
Mr [K] stayed at the address 4 nights per week up until the day of the incident in Jan
2021.
During our investigation, Miss D told us a different address at which Mr K was living in
January 2021. She also told us the following:
When I made the statement with the independent investigator my mind wasnt in the
correct place and wouldnt of been thinking straight. I may of said that week he might
of stayed 4 nights but this wasnt all the time.
As far as I know, the insurers investigator didnt draw up a witness statement and Miss D
didnt sign any such statement. And the insurer hasnt provided a recording of the call. So I
place more weight on Miss Ds later statement. And on balance Im not satisfied that Mr K
was  at the time of the loss  someone who lived with Miss D or who was a member of her
family or household.From what Miss D has said, her car key was inside her home. So I dont find that it was
unsecured or unattended.
Ive thought about whether  knowing Mr K as she did  Miss D shouldve done more to
protect her car key. But her evidence is that she was keeping out Mr Ks way while he
smashed up her home. So if shed hidden the key, I dont consider that it wouldve helped. I
dont consider that Miss D was careless or reckless with her key or the car.
From the circumstances, (including his call to her afterwards) I accept that Mr K was more
likely to have been joy-riding rather than intending permanently to deprive Miss D of her car.
From the communications Ive seen, Im satisfied that Miss D co-operated with the police. I
accept that it was for prosecutors to decide what if any charges to pursue against Mr K.
Ive not been satisfied that the exclusions were clear or intelligible. Ive not been satisfied
that the insurer adequately highlighted the exclusions as significant and unusual terms at the
time of sale. Ive not been satisfied that Mr K was  at the time of the loss  someone who
lived with Miss D or who was a member of her family or household. I havent found that Miss
D was careless or reckless with her key or the car.
For these reasons I consider that the insurer treated Miss D unfairly by its decision to turn
down her claim. 
 
Putting things right
To try to put things right, I find it fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to meet her claim in 
line with the terms of the policy but without reliance on the exclusions and conditions 
referred to above.
I find it fair and reasonable to direct the insurer to add interest at our usual rate on any 
amount it pays Miss D in settlement of her claim.
I consider that  by a decision Ive found unfair  the insurer caused Miss D extra distress
and inconvenience at an already difficult time for her. I consider that compensation of
£150.00 is fair and reasonable. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Zavarovalnica Sava DD to:
1. meet Miss Ds claim in line with the terms of the policy but without reliance on the 
exclusions and conditions referred to above; and
2. pay Miss D simple interest at a yearly rate of 8% on any amount it pays in settlement 
of her claim from the date of her claim to the date of its payment. If Zavarovalnica 
Sava DD considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss D how much its taken off. It should also give 
Miss D a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3. pay Miss D £150.00 for distress and inconvenience.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman