DRN-3619532
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to protect him from losing money to what he 
believes was an online investment scam. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to the parties, so I wont detail them 
again here. Instead, Ill focus on the key reasons behind my decision  our rules allow me to 
do so. 
In summary, Mr S made a series of deposits to an online investment trading platform, which 
for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to as C. He made the payments using his HSBC 
debit card, amounting to around £33,000. All of which took place in May 2021, with the 
payments first going to a cryptocurrency exchange, MoonPay. Once MoonPay converted the 
money to cryptocurrency, the funds were then sent onwards by Mr S to C. It was at this 
point that Mr S says the problems started. 
Mr S claims C is a fraudulent outfit and HSBC ought to have protected him by preventing the 
payments from going ahead. He says he was unable to withdraw his deposits without 
incurring unfair penalties and the overall service was untoward. He therefore raised a 
complaint with HSBC, which the bank did not uphold. 
Upon bringing the matter to our service, one of our investigators concluded that HSBC was 
not liable for Mr Ss loss. She didnt agree with Mr S that the bank ought to have prevented 
the payments, nor could it be expected to have recovered them. Because Mr S disagrees, 
the case has been escalated to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from Mr Ss submission that he strongly believes HSBC failed to uphold a requisite 
level of care; hes cited multiple regulations and various principles of good practice to 
support his position that the bank ought to have stepped in before the payments were 
allowed to be let go. Its clear he finds C to be a scam and not the genuine investment 
platform it claims to be online. Ive therefore considered whether HSBC should have 
prevented these payments from going ahead, in light of C being the ultimate destination of 
Mr Ss money.  
First of all, I have to bear in mind that HSBC would only have been aware that Mr S was 
intending to pay MoonPay, unless it was otherwise notified that the money would then 
subsequently be sent to C as a separate entity (which did not transpire here). 
Its not in dispute that MoonPay is a genuine business for the purposes of exchanging fiat 
currency to digital assets such as crypto. Everything suggests MoonPay provided the service 
properly, and Mr S has not alleged any illicit activity from this firm  which means HSBC 
would not have prospects of recovering the payments on the basis that the service was not 
delivered as it should have been. Im therefore satisfied the bank should not have been 
expected to have prevented or recovered these payments made to MoonPay. 
Secondly, even if I were to consider a scenario where HSBC was put on notice of Cs 
involvement due to an intervention by bank staff, that does not automatically mean the 
transactions should have been stopped. I say so because, good industry practice does make 
it clear that banks do have a duty to protect customers from the risk of financial harm, 
including fraud and scams. However, this only applies in situations where theres sufficient 
grounds to suspect the payment, or payee, was fraudulent. 
So, lets say HSBC saw past the immediate payee (MoonPay) and became aware of Cs 
presence in the payment journey, the bank should only reasonably be expected to have 
gone further if there were sufficient grounds to suspect potential fraud. For this reason, Ive 
considered what information or intelligence there was about C that HSBC could have relied 
on when Mr S made these payments in May 2021. 
The UK financial services regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), regards the use 
of industry intelligence as critical to detecting and preventing investment fraud. Accordingly, 
Ive paid particular attention to the official organisations that publish warnings about 
merchants that operate in the UK and abroad. 
Ive depended on the Investor Alerts Portal of the International Organization of Securities 
Commissions (IOSCO), the international body that brings together the world's securities 
regulators. And Ive relied on the FCAs own warning list, which is in place to share alerts 
and insight about merchants that have been identified as potentially being fraudulent. Both of 
which, I can see Mr S himself has referenced. 
These watchlists, along with other reputable sources, lead me to believe that there were no 
such warnings about C at the time these payments were made. Whats more, there appears 
to be a lack of adverse information about C within the public domain at the material time. 
To that end, and while I dont doubt what Mr S has described about Cs practices, I cannot 
safely conclude that HSBC failed to act on intelligence it should reasonably rely on. So, even 
if the bank could be expected to have intervened with these transactions and become aware 
of Mr Ss intention to invest with C, I find there was simply not enough to alert the bank about 
Cs potential fraud risk to warrant further action. 
Ive also borne in mind that, while the FCA has confirmed that a fraud warning would not 
necessarily constitute unauthorised investment advice, in circumstances such as these, 
there is a general prohibition that HSBC should not be providing investment advice 
pertaining to where a consumer should choose to invest (or not invest) their money. Without 
credible evidence to suggest Mr S was falling victim to a scam, I do not find it unfair that 
HSBC did not guide him on where to place his funds. 
In conclusion, I am not persuaded that HSBC ought reasonably to have been required to 
have taken further steps when Mr S instructed the disputed transactions. It follows that I do 
not require it to do anything beyond what is has already for this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman