DRN-2699222
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE didnt give a full cash refund of her travel 
insurance premium and about its service.
What happened
Mrs B bought a single trip travel insurance policy provided by Great Lakes.
The policy was purchased on 28 February 2020 to cover a holiday from 22 March to 1 April 
2020.
Mrs B paid £177.62, including tax, for the standard level of travel insurance cover which also 
covered her declared medical conditions. Mrs B also paid an additional premium of £11.99, 
including tax, for optional travel disruption extension cover. The total premium Mrs B paid for 
her travel insurance policy, including the additional cover options, included a discount of 
£5.75. So the total premium she paid was £183.86.
On 17 March Mrs Bs holiday provider cancelled her holiday and refunded the holiday costs. 
On 20 March Mrs B emailed the broker to ask what would happen to her policy now the 
holiday was cancelled. She called the broker in May. On 16 May 2020 the broker, on behalf 
of Great Lakes, offered to backdate the cancellation of the policy to the date of Mrs Bs 
email, 20 March, and provide a pro-rata refund in the form of a voucher for £62.16. The 
voucher would be valid for 36 months to use against a new policy with it.
Great Lakes didnt include the premium Mrs B paid for her optional travel disruption 
extension cover within its calculations. 
Mrs B wants a full cash refund of her premium and complained to us. Our investigator set 
out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances 
of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental principle of insurance 
law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid 
is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums 
relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that Covid-19 
didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because cover under 
the basic policy and the travel disruption extension cover started on 28 February 2020 and 
the policy covered various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mrs B with a pro-rata refund of the basic premium and the 
optional travel disruption extension premium from the date the holiday was cancelled in the 
form of a voucher.
Great Lakes said it would accept our investigators recommendation subject to seeing  
written evidence that the holiday cancelled on 17 March 2020. It said on that basis the pro-
rata voucher would be for £83.48 valid for 36 months. Our investigator sent Great Lakes a 
written statement from the holiday provider which showed that on 17 March 2020 it had 
cancelled all holidays until end of April 2020. That statement shows Mrs Bs holiday was 
cancelled on 17 March 2020.
Mrs B didnt accept our investigators recommendation. She would much prefer a cash 
refund than a voucher. She said her planned holiday had been to give her a break from a 
stressful situation and she couldnt afford to not get a full refund. She also said Great Lakes 
poor customer service, not responding to her emails and calls, meant shes reluctant to use 
it again so a voucher wouldnt be any use to her.
Before I made my decision I asked Great Lakes to clarify if the voucher was transferable and 
it confirmed that the voucher could be gifted to Mrs Bs family or friends.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified and set out the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im upholding this complaint to the extent Ive outlined below as I think Great Lakes updated 
settlement offer is fair because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that Great Lakes doesnt have 
to pay any refund of a policyholders premium after the 14 cooling-off period has 
ended. Mrs B took out the policy on  28 February 2020. Even taking the policy 
cancellation date as 20 March 2020 (when Mrs B enquired about policy cancellation) 
the cancellation was outside of the 14 day cooling-off period. I dont think it would be 
fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and treat the Covid-19 pandemic as 
exceptional circumstances. I think this policy term most likely relates to 
circumstances which are individual to the policyholder  such as bereavement or a 
change in their own health. This means I dont think the terms and conditions of 
Mrs Bs contract with Great Lakes entitle her to any refund of premium.
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes new offer to provide Mrs B 
with a credit voucher for the unused portion of her basic cover and optional travel 
disruption extension cover is fair and reasonable. Great Lakes would have been on risk for a 34 day period if the policy hadnt been cancelled. The voucher represents 
the remaining unused 16 days of cover, after the holiday was cancelled, as 
Great Lakes was no longer carrying any risk of Mrs B making a claim after that point. 
Great Lakes new refund calculation is correct.
I think a voucher is fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this 
case. I understand that Mr B feels let down by Great Lakes customer service. It 
delayed for about two months before it offered her a voucher. But Great Lakes was 
dealing with an unprecedented demand on its services and I dont think its delay 
means it has to pay a cash refund to Mrs B. Theres no requirement under the policy 
terms or the industry rules for Great Lakes to give Mrs B a cash refund for all or 
some of the original premium. The offer of a pro-rata credit voucher also goes 
beyond what Great Lakes is required to do. If Mrs B doesnt want to buy travel 
insurance from it again it has confirmed that the voucher is transferable so she has 
the option to gift to family or friends. So I dont think that the terms of the voucher are 
overly restrictive.
Putting things right
I know Mrs B will be disappointed in my decision but having considered everything Im not 
telling Great Lakes to pay her a cash refund of her premiums. Im satisfied that its new offer 
of a voucher for £83.48 valid for 36 months is fair.  
My final decision
Im uphold this complaint against Great Lakes Insurance SE to the extent Ive outlined above 
as I think the updated settlement offer is fair.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman