DRN-3849506
The complaint
Mr P has complained through his representative, wholl Ill refer to as Mr W, about Think 
Insurance Services Limiteds part in arranging a motor trade insurance policy for him.
What happened
Think arranged a motor trade insurance policy for Mr P in 2016 through a Managing General 
Agent (MGA), wholl Ill refer to as T. The policy was underwritten by an insurance company 
Ill refer to as B. Think recommended the policy. They also recommended Mr P renew the 
policy between 2017 and 2021. Mr P didnt actually renew the policy in time in 2020, so 
Think  in effect  arranged a new policy through T, which was also underwritten by B.
Mr W made a claim under the policy in 2021, which was rejected. He then made a complaint 
to Think by email in which he said theyd breached their duty of care to him by failing to 
arrange a policy for him with a reputable insurer. 
Think didnt respond to Mr Ps complaint, so he asked us to consider it. He asked us to 
consider the following complaint points:
Think Insurance is part of an allegedly fraudulent operation, whereby premiums are 
being paid, but claims are not. Or  in the alternative  they were grossly negligent in 
placing his insurance with T, as they knew or should have known the business practice 
of T, which is clearly based on declining claims. 
Think not only mis-sold his policy; it practices a business model of mis-selling. 
Think should have known T were not a reputable company and that they were in breach 
of their duty of care to him by placing his insurance with them. And, as a consequence of 
this, he has suffered harm in that all the premiums he paid over a 4/5 year period did not 
provide the cover he was entitled to expect. 
Thinks use of entrapment techniques and the policy wording should be struck down as 
being inconsistent with the provisions of the Consumer Rights Act 2015.
He was entitled to expect Think would place his insurance with a company with at least 
an average reputation. Whereas T has a 94% disapproval rating on a well known 
company rating website.
The evidence discovered subsequent to payment indicates the premiums would have 
been worthless in the event of a claim, as the business model operated by Think and T 
was designed to avoid claims, thereby defrauding the claimant of the insurance cover 
that he was entitled to expect. 
He is seeking damages sufficient to recognise the theft claim made via T and the return 
of premiums paid previously.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint. She has written to Mr W on two 
occasions explaining why she doesnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. This is 
mainly on the basis that she wasnt persuaded that the policy Think recommended was 
unsuitable for Mr P. She did conclude that Think failed to fulfil their obligation to carry out 
due diligence on B in line with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines. However, 
she didnt think this had prejudiced Mr Ps position in any way, on the basis that there was 
nothing to suggest Think would have had any concerns about arranging a policy for Mr P 
with B if they had done the right checks. She also explained why she didnt think that the 
poor rating on the website Mr P and Mr W had referred to and the rejection of Mr Ps claim 
proved T were running a fraudulent operation. And she pointed out Mr Ps policy was 
actually underwritten by B and not T in any event. 
The investigator also said that because Mr Ps policy was a commercial policy the Consumer 
Rights Act didnt apply. And  in any event  the terms of the policy were the responsibility of 
B, not of Think, who simply arranged it. 
The investigator made it clear that its not our role to make findings on the business models 
of regulated firms or on matters of public interest. Instead our rules require us to decide the 
fair and reasonable outcome to individual complaints.
Mr W does not agree with the investigators findings. He has made the following further 
points in response to them on behalf of Mr P:
He is not interested in B, as the contract was between Mr P and T. And T was selected 
by Think. And who T chose to place the insurance with was a matter for them and no 
concern of Mr Ps as the customer. As far as he is concerned, Mr P had a contractual 
relationship with T and not with B, much like a purchaser from a retailer has a contract 
with the retailer and not with the manufacturer. 
The investigator was incorrect to say that the vehicle that was stolen from Mr P was not 
covered by his policy. This is on the basis that just because the insurer gave the reason 
for refusing a claim as the vehicle not being covered, it does not mean that the vehicle 
wasnt actually covered, ie it doesnt mean that the insurer was right.
Mr W is a private individual who sought a policy to cover a number of vehicles and is 
covered by the provisions of the Consumer Rights Act.  
In addition, from what he has said, I take it that Mr W still thinks the points he and Mr P 
made prior to the investigators view are valid and good reasons why his complaint should 
be upheld. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My starting point for any complaint about the sale and renewal of a policy by an insurance 
broker is to consider what their obligations were and whether they fulfilled them. If I find they 
did not fulfil their obligations then I will go on to consider whether this prejudiced the 
customers position in any way. 
When Think arranged the policy for Mr P, they had to do so in accordance with the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) drawn up by the FCA. And I think the 
relevant rules with regards to the sale of the policy when Mr P originally bought it in May 
2016 were as follows: ICOBS 5.2.2 R  
1. Prior to the conclusion of a contract of insurance a firm must specify, on the basis of 
information obtained from the customer, the demands and the needs of that customer as 
well as the underlying reasons for any advice given to the customer on that policy.
2. The details must be modulated according to the complexity of the policy proposed. 
ICOBS 5.3 Advised sales
ICOBS 5.3.1 R  
 
A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice for any customer who 
is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
ICOBS 5.3.3 R
If an insurance intermediary informs a customer that it gives advice on the basis of a fair 
analysis, it must give that advice on the basis of an analysis of a sufficiently large number 
of contracts of insurance available on the market to enable it to make a recommendation, in 
accordance with professional criteria, regarding which contract of insurance would be 
adequate to meet the customer's needs.
ICOBS 6.1.5 R  
 
A firm must take reasonable steps to ensure a customer is given appropriate information 
about a policy in good time and in a comprehensible form so that the customer can make an 
informed decision about the arrangements proposed.
Think also had to operate in accordance with what the FCA handbook describes as The 
Principles. There were nine of these, but I think the most relevant ones to the sale of an 
insurance policy were:
A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence. 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
A firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary 
decisions for any customer who is entitled to rely upon its judgment.
These principles and rules did not change in any significant way between May 2016 and 
May 2020 when  as I understand it - Mr P last took out or renewed a policy through Think.  
In respect of the first of the principles, the FCA set out in a separate communication in 2018 
what it expected of insurance brokers in carrying out what it described as due diligence on 
insurers they placed business with. I think from what the FCA said they would have expected 
brokers to have been doing this in 2016 when Think first arranged a policy for Mr P.
I consider the key obligations for Think in this regard were to make sure they disclosed the 
name of the insurer, ie B. And they should also have made it clear to Mr P that the policy 
was being placed through an MGA, ie through T. They should also have looked at Bs Solvency and Financial Condition Report, which B were required to publish under Solvency 
II, prior to arranging the policy and prior to recommending Mr P renewed it. This report 
would have been quite detailed, but a key figure in it would have been the solvency 
coverage percentage, which showed how much capital the insurer had got, compared with 
how much they are required to have under Solvency II. This should have been above 
100%.
As Ive already mentioned, from what Think have said I can see they recommended the 
policy to Mr P originally and the sale took place via a telephone call. Its also clear they then 
recommended Mr P renewed the policy in the following years. Think have not been able to 
provide any documentation or notes to show they established Mr Ps demands and needs 
before making these recommendations. However, while theyve not provided copies of 
notes, they have explained why they arranged the policy through T with B. Theyve said this 
was because Mr P was making a new start in the motor trade and the options for him in 
terms of policies would have been limited. And theyve said, while there would have been 
other options, the policy through T would have been one of the most competitive by price 
and also offered the best cover available. 
Think have provided the quote they obtained for Mr Ps policy in 2016, but very little else in 
terms of documentation. And theyve not provided anything to show that they made it clear to 
Mr P that the insurer was B. And it seems from what Think have said that they may have 
been under the impression the insurer was T, as opposed to B. I say this because when our 
investigator asked them if it was clear to Mr P who the insurer was, they pointed out the 
documentation had Ts branding and they used Ts online MID platform. 
In terms of their other obligations in carrying out due diligence Think have said they didnt 
have access to Bs Solvency and Financial Condition Report. And, in terms of checks they 
carried out, they simply monitored motor insurers constantly and that some were financially 
rated and some were not. And just because some were not it did not mean there was any 
cause for concern. They have said that in 2016 T had been around for many years. So I 
presume this was the main reason they did not have any concerns about them. But theyve 
not said why they didnt have any concerns about B.
In view of what Think have said, it is difficult for me to know whether they fulfilled their 
obligations when they originally sold the policy to Mr P and when they recommended he 
renewed it. What I think is clear is that they didnt fulfil their obligations in terms of carrying 
out due diligence. I say this because the most recent Solvency and Financial Condition 
Report for B would have been published and available for them to view in 2016 and at 
subsequent renewals, but they didnt actually realise they had access to it or what they were 
meant to do in terms of carrying out due diligence. And they seem to have been under the 
impression the insurer was T, which suggests they wouldnt have made it clear to Mr P that it 
was actually B and checked Bs solvency.
However, despite Thinks apparent failure to carry out due diligence and their inability to 
provide any documentary evidence to show they established Mr Ps demands and needs 
and provided suitable advice, the policy they recommended does appear to have been 
suitable for Mr P. I say this because it seems he needed a straightforward motor trade policy 
at a reasonable price. And, from the documentation I have seen and what Think have said, 
which I dont think I have a good reason to doubt, it does look like this was what Mr P got. I 
appreciate Mr P doesnt think the policy was suitable because he had a claim under it 
rejected. But I do not agree that the fact a claim was turned down shows it is more likely than 
not that the policy was unsuitable. So, on balance, Im persuaded the policy Think arranged 
for Mr P was suitable, in spite of their failure to carry out due diligence on B. I say this 
because  as Ive already said  it appears to be the sort of policy Mr P needed at a 
reasonable price. And there is nothing to suggest that in 2016 or subsequently there were any issues with Bs solvency. This means if Think had carried out due diligence on B, it 
would not have had any cause for concern.
I do not consider Think were obliged to check the rating website Mr P has referred to or the 
fact that T had a poor rating on it made the policy Think recommended unsuitable. I say this 
because there was nothing in the FCA rules that required them to do this and such websites 
can sometimes give a misleading impression. This is not to say that the website in question 
did give a misleading impression, just that it looks like the rating on it depends on who 
actually posts the reviews. Therefore, just because T had bad reviews on the website and a 
poor rating, I do not agree that this, along with the fact Mr Ps claim was turned down, shows 
the policy T provided was unsuitable or that they were involved in some sort of fraud or 
scam. Also, I think it is of note that the rating Mr P and Mr W have referred to is for T and not 
B, whereas it was B who was the underwriter of Mr Ps policy, ie the insurer not T. 
I appreciate Mr W doesnt think Mr P actually had a contract with B, but I disagree with him 
on this point. B was Mr Ps insurer and carried out the contract of insurance he was insured 
under, so I am satisfied he did have a contractual relationship with them. He did of course 
also have a contractual relationship with T, but they were not the business responsible for 
paying any claims under the policy. B may well have delegated the right to decide whether 
claims should be paid to T, along with the right to decide which customers to provide cover 
to, but this is different to T being responsible for this in their own right. 
I am not persuaded by the evidence provided that Think were grossly negligent or were 
involved in some sort of model of mis-selling by recommending the policy through T with B. I 
say this because there is no independent evidence that suggests this was the case. I 
appreciate T has since stopped trading, but I do not believe this in itself shows they were 
acting inappropriately. And Ive not seen anything else independent, such as some sort of 
statement by the FCA or another official body that suggests this was the case. Mr P and Mr 
W are of course entitled to their opinions, but it doesnt necessarily follow that these are 
right. And Im not persuaded that they are.
Im not going to comment on whether certain terms in the policy are fair, as the policy is Bs 
responsibility. Especially as Ive already concluded it was most likely to have been suitable 
for Mr P. Like our investigator, if Mr P was running a business and took a policy to cover it, I 
dont think he would be entitled to the protection provided by The Consumer Rights Act. But 
he would have been protected by Bs obligation to handle claims fairly and by Thinks 
obligation to have due regard to his interests. And, while I appreciate Mr P feels Think failed 
to meet this obligation, Im persuaded by the evidence provided that they did. I say this 
because Im satisfied that, despite failing to carry out due diligence, the advice they provided 
to Mr P was suitable. 
Also, based on the limited documentation I have seen, I think it most likely that in the main 
Think provided B with clear, fair and not misleading documentation. They do appear to have 
failed to make it clear who the insurer under the policy was, but I dont think this prejudiced 
Mr P in any way, because it seems the policy he ended up with was suitable, in spite of the 
fact he had a claim under it turned down. 
It's not appropriate for me to comment in this decision on whether the vehicle Mr P claimed 
for was covered by the policy. As that decision was made by B and I know weve already 
considered a complaint from Mr P about it.   
In summary, it will be clear to Mr W and Mr P from what Ive said that, while I consider Think 
could have done more to check the solvency of B before recommending the policy to Mr P, I 
am satisfied that their failure to do so didnt prejudice Mr Ps position in any way. Im also 
satisfied, that despite Thinks apparent misunderstanding of who the insurer under Mr Ps policy actually was and their inability to provide much in the way of documentary evidence, 
they did provide suitable advice and a suitable policy to Mr P, along with appropriate 
documentation. And this all means that I do not consider it would be appropriate for me to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint about Think 
Insurance Services Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman