DRN-3598780
The complaint
Ms O complains that she was mis-sold legal expenses insurance (LEI) cover with her home 
insurance policy by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
Ms O says that when the policy was taken out in April 2016, she told the adviser that she 
needed cover for a service charge dispute, and she was told that it would be covered. 
She made a claim on her policy in 2017 but she says she was told  by the legal expenses 
insurer - the claim wasnt covered because the issue started before the policy date. She 
continued with the policy. When she later made a claim for legal assistance, it was declined 
by the legal expenses insurer who said a claim for a service charge dispute wasnt covered 
by the policy. Ms O complained that Halifaxs adviser (who Ill call H) didnt tell her that a 
claim wouldnt be covered. She said she made the payments for the policy believing that a 
claim would be covered and if shed known it wouldnt be covered, she wouldnt have taken 
out the policy.
Halifax said it didnt have any evidence about what was discussed at the point of sale due to 
the time that had elapsed since the sale. After the sale Ms O would have been sent a 
welcome letter and policy booklet which included all the details of the cover, terms and 
conditions and limits. There was also a cooling off period if Ms O was unhappy with any 
aspect of the policy and she could have cancelled it. It was the legal expenses insurers 
decision to decline the claim as that business was the underwriter and administrator of the 
LEI cover in the policy. Halifax says it wouldnt have been able to say categorically whether a 
claim would be covered or not as it would need to be assessed by the legal expenses 
insurer on an individual basis. 
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought as the seller of the 
home insurance policy, Halifaxs role was to sell the policy to a customer, take the payment 
for the premiums and provide the relevant policy documents. Halifax couldnt have confirmed 
whether a future claim on the policy for legal assistance would have been covered or not 
because it didnt deal with claims for legal assistance.
The investigator noted that the LEI cover was included as standard in the policy. She 
thought the policy booklet made it clear that Halifax wasnt the provider of the LEI cover; it 
only arranged the sale of the policy. Taking everything into account, she couldnt find that the 
LEI cover in the home insurance policy had been mis-sold to Ms O by Halifax in April 2016.
Ms O disagreed. She said she specifically asked H whether her claim regarding her service 
charge would be covered. She said H went away she confirm the information and came back 
and told her again that it was covered. She said she used to sell insurance and she can 
guarantee that people do not just come into a store and blanket buy insurance without 
stating what they need it for. She can categorically say that they discussed her needs and H 
confirmed that her service charge dispute was covered under the insurance. She said on the 
documents she received at the point of sale H stated that the policy was sold to meet her 
needs. She thought Halifax should have kept accurate records of the meeting.
The investigator issued a second view. In it she said as the LEI cover on the home insurance 
policy was included as standard when H sold the home insurance policy to Ms O, he 
wouldn't have advised her on whether the LEI cover was suitable for her needs, or assessed 
her needs and circumstances. The LEI cover was underwritten by a different insurer than the 
home insurer, and Halifax couldn't have known whether a future claim on the policy would 
have been covered. She didnt think there was any evidence that the policy had been mis-
sold. She thought it was clear that there was a different insurer for the LEI. 
Ms O disagreed again. She said the home contents insurance and the LEI were sold to her 
as a package under home solutions. She was not sold just the home contents insurance or 
advised on just the home contents as she thought the investigator had suggested. She said 
H recommended the home solution as meeting her identified need which was insurance that 
covers service charge dispute as they discussed and agreed that the insurance covers this. 
Therefore, any suggestion that the discussion with H was just on home solution is 
completely wrong. She said she vividly remembers all she discussed with H and after the 
meeting she spoke to him again about the insurance covering any service charge dispute 
which, she said, he again told her without any equivocation was covered. She thought 
Halifax should have kept an accurate record of the discussion.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said:
I want to make it clear that this decision relates only to the actions of Halifax. I make no 
decision here regarding the actions of the legal expenses insurer. 
I think Halifax made it clear to Ms O that it was not the legal expenses insurer. It says who 
the legal expenses insurer is about halfway down the first page of the welcome letter. As I 
think it was made clear to Ms O that Halifax wasnt the legal expenses insurer then the only 
part of Ms Os complaint relevant to Halifax is the sale or mis-sale of the policy.
To decide the mis-selling complaint I need to consider what was said in a meeting in 2016. 
Halifax hasnt provided any notes about what was discussed. The paperwork supplied after 
the meeting does refer to having discussed Ms Os needs but there is nothing specific about 
her needs regarding LEI. Ms O is, however, adamant that she specifically discussed her 
need for a dispute about her service charge to be covered. And that if she hadnt been 
reassured that she would be covered she wouldnt have taken out the insurance. 
Ms O went on to make a claim on her LEI in 2017 (the year after she took out the policy). 
And that claim was declined because the dispute arose prior to her taking out her LEI in 
2016. In this context it doesnt seem surprising that Ms O would check if the LEI cover would 
cover a service charge dispute. 
I asked Ms O a series of questions about what happened when she was sold the insurance. 
I asked that she give me as much detail as possible. One of the questions I asked was; 
What did the [H] say and do when you asked about whether a service charge dispute would 
be covered? Ms O replied: [H] said yes that the service charge dispute is covered. I asked 
whether the service charge dispute is covered several times and he said yes all the time. He 
then went to the back office to enquire whether it is covered and came back and told me 
again that service charge dispute is covered. 
The interview summary document that she received did not refer to her need for service 
charge disputes to be covered. I asked Ms O about whether she was surprised about this. She said: [H] who sold me the insurance policy at the branch told me that service charge 
dispute is covered when I repeatedly asked him about this. He even had to go to their back 
office to get a confirmation of this and when he came back he confirmed again that service 
charge dispute is covered. There was nothing to be surprised about because the clause he 
told me covers the service charge dispute is in the policy. Also, I went to their branch again 
to ask and was told as previously that the service charge dispute is covered.
 
Although Ms O has said she has a vivid recollection of what happened that day and has 
provided very lengthy submissions to this service regarding her complaint her account of 
what happened isnt particularly vivid or detailed. Given Ms O had an existing service charge 
dispute it doesnt surprise me that she might have asked questions about whether a service 
charge dispute would be covered. But as LEI cover was just a standard add-on to the policy, 
I imagine that wouldnt have been a typical question H would have received. Ms O says H 
said yes repeatedly and went away and checked. In that context it seems odd that there 
wasnt more discussion about why she wanted to know. I would have expected that H would 
have asked Ms O why she had that particular concern and she would have told him that she 
had had problems with her service charge in the past. None of this appears in her account. It 
therefore gives me some concern about the completeness of the account.
I am also concerned by Ms Os account because H should have known that he couldnt have 
been able to categorically say yes or no to a claim being covered/accepted as it would need 
to be assessed on an individual basis by the LEI insurer. Ms O says not only did he confirm 
she would be covered repeatedly in the meeting, but he also went away and got confirmation 
and confirmed it to her again on another day. This doesnt seem quite right to me particularly 
the idea that he got confirmation from Halifax as this would have required more than one 
staff member to have given advice they shouldnt have given.
Ms O says she asked whether service charge disputes were covered repeatedly  several 
times when the policy was sold and again when she went back into the branch. She has told 
us that she used to sell insurance and indeed she comes across as a sophisticated and 
knowledgeable person, for example she has referred to the contra proferentem rule. In this 
context I find it strange that she didnt raise any concerns about the fact that the interview 
summary document that she received did not refer to her need for service charge disputes to 
be covered. She says she relied on what she was told by Halifax. But if she was so confident 
of Halifaxs advice it doesnt make sense to me that she asked about service charge 
disputes again when she went back into the branch or that she repeatedly asked the 
question to H. And given her previous experience selling insurance and her general level of 
sophistication I would have expected her to ensure that her need for service charge disputes 
to be covered by the LEI policy was documented.
Ms O is adamant that the LEI policy covers service charge disputes. And she has argued a 
great length and with passion why she is covered.
Taking everything into account, I think it is most likely she relied on her own assessment of 
what was covered by the LEI policy. I think it is most likely that Halifax didnt advise her that 
service charge disputes would be covered by the LEI policy and that the policy wasnt mis-
sold.
Responses to my provisional decision
Halifax accepted the provisional decision.
Ms O did not accept my provisional decision. She provided a lengthy response which Ive 
summarised. She asks about the information Halifax has provided to this service regarding 
her meeting with the adviser. She maintains that Halifax told her that service charge disputes were covered and that if such disputes werent covered, she was mis-sold. She maintains 
that Halifaxs records cant just vanish. She says that her account of what happened at the 
Halifax branch is exactly what happened. She says her identified need was discussed and 
she was told that service charge dispute is covered under the policy. She also says she isnt 
sophisticated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax hasnt provided any further information to this service about the meeting between 
Ms O and the Halifax adviser. It is unfortunate that Halifax doesnt have more detailed notes 
of the meeting, but I must make my decision based on the evidence that I do have. 
I wasnt in the room when the insurance was sold. She was in the room and I take her 
account of what happened very seriously. But Im not persuaded that her recollection is 
complete and accurate for the reasons I set out more fully in the provisional decision. Ms O 
has said Im wrong and she isnt sophisticated. She comes across as sophisticated to me  
she says she used to sell insurance and she uses lots of legal terminology. But even if I 
accept that she isnt sophisticated I dont think this persuades me that I should accept her 
account of what happened. 
Taking everything into account I dont think H did tell Ms O that service charge complaints 
were covered. I dont therefore think the policy was mis-sold and I wont be upholding this 
complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman