DRN-3492951
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as D has complained that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFUM) unfairly declined a claim on its commercial insurance 
policy.
Mr G, a director of D, has brought the complaint on Ds behalf. D is also represented in 
bringing this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments as 
being those of D. 
What happened
D held a commercial insurance policy with NFUM. D claimed for indemnity on the public 
liability section of its policy after a fire broke out while one of its employees was working on a 
residential property. The employee was working downstairs in a dormer bungalow and 
needed to solder a pipe which was protruding through the ceiling. The employee was using a 
blow torch and said they noticed embers shooting in the hole. They said they used a fire 
extinguisher and then tried to throw water into the hole. However, this didnt extinguish the 
fire, so they called the fire brigade. NFUM said that it was likely loose wallpaper and/or 
papers stored in the roof void had caught fire. 
Mr G provided a statement which said hed visited the property before the work was carried 
out to assess the work needed and provide an estimate. He said there was no combustible 
wall covering and no indication that the roof void had been converted into a storage area. He 
said in his experience any inaccessible loft space in this type of house would be filled with 
fire resistant material. Mr G said that the company van used by the employee contained a 
fire extinguisher which was retained by D after it had been used. 
The employee carrying out the work said they also carried out an inspection of the house. 
They said there was no indication that there was an accessible roof void and no wallpaper 
which would be a fire hazard. They said they had taken a fire extinguisher into the house 
and didnt think it was necessary to use a heat mat as there was no combustible material 
which needed protecting. 
NFUM turned down Ds claim. They said D had breached a number of warranties because it 
didnt have a fire extinguisher, hadnt moved combustible material or used a protective 
covering and hadnt carried out a thorough inspection of the surrounding area. NFUM also 
referred to Ds risk assessment for this type of work which said unforeseen hazards should 
be checked and a heat mat used behind pipes. 
D complained to NFUM about their decision to decline the claim and about the time it had 
taken for NFUM to provide an answer. It referred to the case of Fraser V Furman [1967] in 
support of why it should receive indemnity. It said its inspection of the area had been 
reasonable and sufficient so as not to be negligent or reckless. However, NFUM maintained 
theyd made the correct decision. They did accept there had been some delays and so 
offered £400 compensation. 
Unhappy with NFUMs decision, D brought its complaint to our service. It said both Mr G and 
the employee were experienced and had professionally assessed the surroundings. D 
explained that it was a family business and described the impact of this incident and claim 
on both the company and the employee. 
Our investigator looked into Ds complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought it 
was fair and reasonable for NFUM to rely on a breach of warranties to decline the claim and 
he didnt think NFUM needed to increase the amount of compensation. 
D asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that, while D held a commercial policy it was a 
family business. It said that whether a thorough investigation took place was a question of 
what a reasonably competent engineer would consider to be necessary and appropriate. D 
also said that the only sensible way to read the warranty about moving combustible 
materials was for it to only refer to those materials which pose a risk. D said that where it 
couldnt reasonably have been aware of the materials the warranty couldnt be engaged. D 
said that it wasnt fair to refer to its risk assessment as using a heat mat wouldnt have made 
any difference in this case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the impact of this incident on both D and its employee and I 
recognise the considerable costs involved. However, Im not going to uphold its complaint. Ill 
explain why. 
D has made a number of detailed points. Although Ive considered them carefully, Im not 
going to address each one in this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the 
central points to this complaint. 
Ds policy says that if a policyholder fails to comply with a warranty and that failure causes or 
contributes to an insured loss, the policyholder will lose their right to indemnity for that loss.  
The policy has a use of heat warranty. The relevant parts of which say:
YOU warrant that if YOU use any electric, oxyacetylene or similar welding or 
cutting equipment, blow lamps, blowtorches or similar equipment for the 
application of heat, YOU will ensure that the following precautions are put into 
effect each time such equipment is used:
1 make available for immediate use a suitable fire extinguisher which has been 
maintained;
2 where possible, move combustible material to at least 10 metres from the point 
of application of heat. Where this is not possible, use fire-resistant or purpose 
made blankets, drapes, shields or screens to protect the PROPERTY;

4 complete a thorough inspection of the area where the work is to be carried out 
(including where possible, the other side of any wall or partition being worked 
upon) to ensure that there are no combustible materials which could be ignited by 
direct or conducted heat;
I will deal with each of these in turn.
Fire extinguisher
The witness statements from both Mr G and the employee state that a fire extinguisher had 
been taken into the house and was available for use. I havent seen enough from NFUM to persuade me that there wasnt a fire extinguisher so I dont think they can reasonably rely on 
a breach of 1 to decline Ds claim. 
Combustible material
I havent seen enough from NFUM to persuade me that there was wallpaper around the hole 
which needed protecting. However, it seems likely there was combustible material in the roof 
void which wasnt moved or protected because Ds employee wasnt aware it was there.
I understand that Ds employee wasnt aware of the existence of the combustible material, 
but I havent seen anything to indicate that it wouldnt have been possible to move the 
material away from the site if they had been aware of it. Moreover, if it hadnt been possible, 
then the warranty would require Ds employee to use the protective equipment listed. I 
understand Ds employee decided that it wasnt necessary to use a heat mat, but as the 
materials werent moved, or covered with the specified materials, that meant the warranty 
wasnt complied with. 
Ive noted that Ds risk assessment says that where the hazard is naked flames to skin or 
combustibles one of the control measures is operatives will use a heat mat behind the 
pipes to protect all surfaces. D said this wasnt relevant in these circumstances because the 
pipe wasnt adjacent to the wall and a heat mat wouldnt have made a difference. However, 
Ds comments arent enough to persuade me that the use of the materials specified in the 
warranty wouldnt have made a difference in this case.  
As its likely the combustible material in the roof void caught fire, I think its fair and 
reasonable for NFUM to say that not moving it, not or using protective equipment, 
contributed to the loss and therefore they can rely on this to decline Ds claim. 
Inspection
The word thorough isnt defined in the policy so Ive applied the ordinary everyday meaning 
of it. I therefore think its fair to say that a thorough inspection would be something that was 
conducted in detail and was complete. The warranty says that where possible this should 
include the other side of a wall or partition. 
Ive noted Ds point regarding the case of Fraser V Furman [1967] 1 W.L.R. 989 but I think 
theres a distinction to be made between reasonable care precautions and a set of defined 
safeguards, as set out in NFUMs policy. So what I need to decide is whether D met the 
safeguards set out in the warranty and not whether it was reckless.
I can see that both Mr G and the employee who completed the work are experienced and 
understood that it was likely that the roof void was filled with fire resistant material. However, 
I havent seen anything to indicate that either of them asked the owner of the house what 
was in the void to enable them to complete a thorough inspection of the space on the other 
side of the ceiling, as required by the warranty. 
I therefore think its fair and reasonable for NFUM to conclude a thorough inspection didnt 
take place. As not doing so most likely contributed to the loss, I think its fair and reasonable 
for NFUM to rely on this breach to decline Ds claim. 
Delays
The incident occurred in March 2020 and was reported straight away. However, NFUM didnt 
provide an answer until July 2020. NFUM dont dispute that there were delays and from the information theyve provided there seems to be a period of around three months where 
NFUM did very little to progress things. 
D said that if NFUM had given an answer sooner, it might have been able to reduce the 
potential costs involved in the claim. However, I havent seen anything apart from its 
comments to support this. Therefore, Im satisfied £400 is a fair and reasonable amount to 
compensate for the inconvenience of the delays.  
I recognise this isnt the answer D was hoping for, given the considerable costs involved in 
this claim. But, having considered the matter very carefully, I cant fairly require NFUM to pay 
its claim. 
My final decision
The £400 The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited have offered as 
compensation for the inconvenience caused by the delays is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Therefore, my final decision is that The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited should pay D £400 compensation for inconvenience if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman