DRN-2312815
The complaint
Miss Gs complaint is about the default Telefonica UK Limited (trading as O2) recorded on 
her credit file.
What happened
Miss G has six contracts with O2 that are all linked to a single profile. Five contracts are 
linked to one account number and another contract (a device acquired in December 2017) is 
linked to another account number. Miss Gs complaint is that a default was applied to her 
account for the December 2017 device.
Miss G says that her payments didnt go through in July 2019 and she called O2 about this. 
A recording of this call isnt available, but Miss G says she intended to make payments due 
on all her contracts. While the payments on the five contracts on one of her accounts were 
requested and made, the payment for the December 2017 device wasnt requested and 
therefore wasnt made. Miss G says she had thought at this time she had brought all her 
payments up to date. A further payment wasnt taken for this contract in September which 
Miss G says she wasnt aware of. She says she always intended to make her payments and 
was happy to pay the outstanding amount due.
Miss G received a letter from a debt collection agent later in 2019. She says she called the 
agent and was told to disregard the letter, so she believed her accounts were up to date. 
She then discovered that a default had been applied to her account. She wants this removed 
from her credit file.
O2 said that Miss G didnt make the payments due on the December 2017 device, with the 
last payment being received on 28 June 2019. It said it was Miss Gs responsibility to ensure 
her payments were made and it didnt have evidence to show that this account was 
mentioned when Miss G called to make payments to clear an outstanding balance. It also 
said that monthly emails were sent along with a device plan annual statement which would 
have shown the situation on the account.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought it fair to accept Miss G intended to pay all 
amounts due when she called in July 2019 but due to the adviser not asking for one of the 
payments, this was missed. He also thought that the contact Miss G made following receipt 
of the letter from the debt collection agent showed she was unaware of the situation on her 
account. Given this he thought the default should be removed from Miss Gs credit file.
O2 didnt agree. It reiterated that Miss G was aware of the need to make her payments and 
that the payments made in July 2019 were for a different account.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
That when Miss G called O2 following her failed payments in July 2019 she intended 
to make payments to all her accounts. And that following this call she believed all her 
accounts were up to date.
Miss G was sent an email at end July providing the account details and saying a 
payment had been missed. I accepted that Miss G may have considered this issue 
had been addressed in her call with O2. 
In August 2019, Miss G was sent a letter about her service being restricted and a 
further email in August saying the payment still hadnt been made. She was then 
issued with an enforcement notice. Given this I found that Miss G should have been 
aware that there was an issue with her payments for this account, and it would have 
been reasonable for her to have contacted O2 again and this issue could have been 
resolved.
Miss G didnt make her payment due end August and was sent a disconnection letter 
in early September. O2 then issued a default notice dated 21 September 2019. 
Miss G didnt make her September payment or any payment in response to the 
default letter.
I found that O2 took reasonable steps to inform Miss G of the status of her account 
and to give her the opportunity to prevent a default being applied. As she didnt make 
the payments due, a default was applied in January 2020. 
I understood this was upsetting for Miss G and I noted her offer to pay the 
outstanding balance, but I didnt find that I can say O2 did anything wrong by 
applying the default. Because of this I didnt require it to remove the default from 
Miss Gs credit file.
Miss G didnt accept my provisional decision. She said that she didnt receive the emails 
about the missed payments and she only received a letter from the debt collecting company 
and because of this she called and was told she didnt owe anything. She said that had she 
known there was an amount outstanding she would have paid it to prevent a default being 
recorded on her credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss G entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with O2 in December 2017 to acquire a 
device and in doing so she agreed to the terms and conditions. The agreement had a term of 
24 months with monthly repayments of £36. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, I find that Miss G did make a reasonable attempt to 
make a manual payment on her account after missing the July 2019 payment. The payment 
wasnt made on this account, but I find it reasonable to accept that Miss G believed her 
payments to all be up to date at this time.
The outstanding issue is whether Miss G was then provided with the information she needed 
about the missing payments on the account before a default was applied. Miss G has said 
she didnt receive the emails I referred to in my provisional decision. She said she only 
received a letter from the debt collecting company and that after this she was told there was 
nothing to pay.I note Miss Gs comments and can understand the point she makes about settling the 
account rather than having a default recorded on her credit file, but I have to consider all the 
evidence provided. O2 has provided copies of letters sent to Miss Gs address before the 
account was defaulted. The letters included a notice of arrears, a default notice and a notice 
of enforcement. O2 has also provided copies of emails that it sent about the arrears on 
Miss Gs account. So, while I note Miss Gs comments about not receiving this information, 
as the evidence shows that O2 did inform Miss G about the status of her account and what 
needed to be done, I do not find I can say it did anything wrong by taking further action when 
the payment wasnt made.
While I understand how upsetting this has been for Miss G, I do not find I can say that O2 
did anything wrong by applying the default and so I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Telefonica UK Limited (trading 
as O2).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman