DRN-3953290
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled 
a claim against its Landlords insurance policy. 
What happened
P is a company that owns a rental property insured by AXA. In 2021, a vehicle crashed into it 
causing damage to the front elevation and internal areas. P raised a claim and AXA 
accepted it. AXA say they offered to settle the claim by repairing the damage, or P could 
provide quotes  P opted to provide quotes. 
P provided quotes but AXA say they were excessive  more than double the reserve placed 
on the claim by their surveyor and loss adjuster. So, these needed further review which took 
time. 
P says it experienced delays from the outset and AXA handled things poorly in relation to the 
repairs required and loss of rent aspect of the claim. It says it had to chase for updates, was 
constantly ignored, and were impacted financially. It says the property was due to be 
mortgaged at the time the incident occurred but couldnt be due to its condition. And delays 
to repairs meant it had to extend expensive borrowing and source private lending. 
P says it took several weeks for AXA to communicate the quotes were too high  despite 
regularly chasing for updates, and the communication was poor. It says quotes were high 
given it had access to only local contractors who quoted for the extensive levels of work set 
out by AXA. And in any case, it told AXA in March 2022 it was prepared for their contractors 
to begin works but nothing progressed at this point until it was said in June 2022 that AXA 
were struggling to appoint contractors. P already had some remedial works undertaken at 
this point given the security risk and further damage occurring while the property was 
susceptible to the elements. 
P complained to AXA in June 2022 about the way things were handled. It said it was losing 
£3,000 per month in rent, delays caused financial hardship, and the claim still hadnt 
progressed, amongst other things. AXA responded to it in August 2022 saying the claim was 
a major incident involving a vehicle, the validation process was crucial, and although their 
handling of things could be perceived as causing delays, they needed to take the steps they 
did to progress the claim. They also said given the disparity between the claim reserve and 
Ps quotes, a further review was required which took time. 
They accept things could have been handled better and offered to pay P £100 compensation 
 which was increased later to £400  for any inconvenience caused. P didnt think this 
amount was adequate, so it approached our Service for an impartial review. 
Our investigator only considered the complaint points P raised that were responded to by 
AXA in August 2022 in relation to the level of service provided. And told P it would need to 
raise a further complaint regarding its financial losses and matters that occurred after the 
August 2022 final response letter. She didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. While she 
agreed things could have been handled better overall, she felt £400 compensation was fair 
and reasonable. P didnt agree. It said, broadly, AXA caused delays, were unable to source 
contractors, and progression of the claim was poor. As it didnt agree, the case was passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Several points have been made in relation to this matter  I havent addressed each one 
individually. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the pertinent points. That isnt 
meant as a discourtesy  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. In my decision 
Ive considered the complaint points P raised that were responded to by AXA in August 2022 
 namely, the level of service provided by AXA up to this point. 
I note this was a complex claim incident involving a vehicle which caused significant property 
damage. AXA offered to settle the claim by appointing contractors to undertake the works, 
which were to be overseen by a surveyor. However, P opted to provide quotes which AXA 
say didnt provide a breakdown of costings and were significantly higher than the claim 
reserve. I think a large portion of delays  particularly between November 2021 to March 
2022  were attributed to these quotes and the requirement for AXA to carry out a further 
review. I think this was reasonable for them to do so and I say this because AXA say Ps 
quotes were in the region of £150,000 and £160,000. AXA say the claim reserve was placed 
at roughly £60,000, and I note Ps policy schedule gives the buildings reinstatement declared 
value of £141,667. 
So, while Im satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to take steps to validate the quotes, I think 
communication during this period could have been better and more proactive. It seems the 
majority of Ps contact was via the surveyor and loss adjuster. And at times P was given 
conflicting information about which party were considering the claim. During this entire 
period P was regularly chasing for information and explaining the impact on it which Ive no 
doubt would have been disruptive and inconvenient. 
In March 2022 P told AXA it was prepared for their contractors to step in and undertake the 
works. There were delays between March and June 2022  and a lack of proactive 
communication from AXAs side  because AXA were struggling to employ contractors to do 
the works. P says it was told in April 2022 a contractor would be assigned the following day, 
but nothing happened. Then, in June 2022, P told AXA it would appoint its own contractors 
to complete the works due to the delays. Throughout this time P was also chasing for a loss 
of rent payment to be made  and says it only received £1,000 minus the excess in 
payments despite the claim incident occurring in August 2021. 
Having reviewed the claims journey up to the August 2022 final response letter, I think its 
fair to say delays were attributed to the quotes provided by P that required validation, and 
AXAs inability to source contractors to commence with works. Communication was poor 
overall from the time P submitted the quotes to AXA in late 2021, and I cant see any 
evidence that supports AXA took proactive steps to get things back on track after 
communicating to P the quotes were too high and wouldnt be accepted. 
I think had communication been better the claim would have run far smoother than it did. 
Better communication and proactiveness on AXAs part in my view to request P provided 
further quotes early on, amongst other things, would have most likely progressed the claim 
much sooner than it was. Given the nature of this claim, its most likely this would have 
caused considerable disruption to the operation of P, and I think AXAs handling only added 
to that disruption and inconvenience. So, I also think some compensation is due to recognise that. 
P is a limited company so Im unable to award compensation for material distress 
experienced by individuals even if its directors may have experienced this type of impact as 
a result of AXAs handling of matters. AXA offered to pay P £400 compensation to recognise 
things could have been handled much better. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for the interruption and inconvenience experienced by P  over and above 
the natural interruption a claim of this nature would have caused  between 2021 to AXAs 
final response letter of August 2022. So, I wont be requiring AXA to pay further 
compensation to P.  
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to P. But my decision ends what we 
 in attempting to resolve its dispute with AXA  can do for it. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman