DRN-3616373
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost as the result of a scam.
In making her complaint Mrs G is represented by a solicitor. For ease Ill refer to Mrs G
throughout this decision.
What happened
Mrs G fell victim to an investment scam where she made a number of payments between
January and April 2021.
Based on the submissions of both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
She was cold called by someone claiming to be a broker who talked to her about investing in
cryptocurrency. The caller communicated with Mrs G in her native language which shes said
resulted in instant rapport and trust.
Mrs G was told the more money she invested the higher returns she would make. The
scammer used remote access to open the account with the cryptocurrency exchange (Ill
refer to as B) in Mrs Gs name, and showed her how to send her funds onto them via B.
On 15 January 2021, Mrs G made an initial investment. She made a payment of £501 from
her Monzo account to B. From Mrs Gs account with B, the scammers via remote access
showed her how to send on the funds. Within ten days she was told shed made £300 plus in
profits.
Mrs G made another payment of £2,002 on 29 January 2021, from her Monzo account to her
account with B. In total she sent £2,503 in January 2021. Mrs G says she was then told her
account/investment had gone up to around $10,000 to $13,000.
At the end of March 2021, Mrs G wished to withdraw money from the investment due to her
financial circumstances. To withdraw the investment returns she was told shed need to pay
fees. She made a payment of £600 on 30 March 2021 and, further payments of £1,750, 
£955, £640, £655, £700, £1,000 and £1,100 on 31 March 2021. These payments were made
after she was told she needed to pay 20% commission. Mrs G made a final payment of
£1,760 on 1 April 2021. In total Mrs G sent £11,663 from her Monzo account to her account
with B and, from there she sent this onto the scammers.
Mrs G was then told due to fluctuations between different currencies, the withdrawal could
not be made, and she was asked to make further payments to withdraw the funds. It was at
this point Mrs G became suspicious that this may be a scam and contacted Action Fraud
and the police.
Mrs G contacted Monzo on 7 April 2021 to report the scam. Monzo having looked into
things, declined to provide a refund. It said it was not liable for the losses incurred. As Mrs G
disagreed with this, she brought her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator upheld the complaint in part. He agreed the payments werent caught by the
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) as the money was paid to an account in
Mrs Gs own name. However, he thought Monzo ought to have done more and that it missed
an opportunity to discuss the payments Mrs G was asking to make in more detail. Had it
done so, he thought the scam would have been prevented and Mrs G wouldnt have lost all
the money she sent as part of the scam. However, when considering whether Mrs G had
acted reasonably when making the payments, he felt she should share some of the liability
for her loss. On this basis, our Investigator concluded Monzo should refund 50% of Mrs Gs
outstanding loss, from and including the payment of £640 made on 31 March 2021.
Monzo didnt agree. It reiterated that Mrs G was not eligible for reimbursement under the
CRM Code as the money she sent from her Monzo account went to an account in her name
with the cryptocurrency exchange (B). Monzo considers it is not liable as the money was in
Mrs Gs control once it exited her Monzo account and, it feels the complaint lies with B.
Monzo also doesnt think it is the banks place to ask Mrs G questions about the payments
she made, and it feels Mrs G wouldve only proven that the money was being moved to her
own account with B. Further, Monzo in response to our Investigators view says Mrs G has
been grossly negligent.
I issued my provisional decision on 7 July 2022 explaining why I wasnt minded to uphold 
Mrs Gs complaint. I have set out my provisional findings below.
My provisional findings 
My role in considering this complaint is limited to considering the action or inaction on the
part of Monzo and whether, if it ought to have acted differently, it wouldve been able to
prevent the scam.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
Ive first considered whether Mrs G is entitled to a refund under the CRM Code. Monzo is not
a signatory to the CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been
the victims of Authorised Push Payments (APP) scams like this in all but a limited number of
circumstances. But it has agreed to act in accordance with it. But in this particular case, Im
afraid the CRM code doesnt apply. I say this because, the CRM code refers to APP where
the transfer of funds is transferred to another person. In this case, Mrs G transferred money
from her Monzo account to another account in her name with B. And while I recognise Mrs G
has explained the scammers set up the account via remote access  she has also told us via
remote access the scammers guided her on how to make the payments from her account
with B onto them. So, based on what weve been told, Im persuaded Mrs G had control of
the account. This means Monzo isnt required to consider her complaint under the CRM
Code as Mrs G didnt transfer her funds to another person but to another account in her
name.
So, Ive gone on to think about whether Monzo could have done anything else to prevent the
scam; bearing in mind good industry practice at the time and considering whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case. But I
am also mindful that when Mrs G made the payments, Monzo should fairly and reasonablyalso have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And there are
circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make
additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a
payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from
fraud.
Having thought very carefully about Monzos actions, I cant currently safely say it acted
unfairly and unreasonably in allowing the payments to be made. And Im not persuaded
Monzo should reasonably have been expected to prevent the loss. I say this because,
overall, I dont think the payments she made were remarkable enough to have caused
Monzo concern.
In thinking about whether the payments Mrs G made were out of character and unusual I
have reviewed the typical pattern of Mrs Gs account usage. To do this I have looked at the
account statements provided prior to the scam. This is often a finely balanced matter, and
Monzo has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. From
Mrs Gs account statements, I can see her account was fairly new. It had been opened
around five months prior to the scam payments with the account being used from mid-
November 2020. Because of this, when looking at the previous account activity prior to the
scam payments, the account activity/usage is somewhat limited given how long shed had
the account and been using it. Not too long after Mrs G started using her Monzo account,
she set up a new payee and made her initial payment to her account with B. This was the
payment of £501 on 15 January 2021. I dont think this payment ought to have flagged with
Monzo as potentially suspicious or an indication that she mayve been at risk of financial
harm. I say this, as I dont find setting up a new payee in and of itself an indication of fraud.
After all there is a first time for everything. And I also dont find the value of the payment
ought to have caused Monzo concern.
Ive then gone on to think about the further payments Mrs G made. The second payment of
£2,002 was made around 14 days after the first payment. And at the point Mrs G made the
second payment to the account in her name with B, this was now a payment to an existing
payee. While I note from the limited account activity, she hadnt made a previous payment of
this value, I dont think this payment ought to have stood out to Monzo as particularly
suspicious or remarkable.
The next payment Mrs G made was on 30 March 2021, around two months after the initial
two payments made to B. This payment was for a lesser value than the one made on
29 January 2021 and again was a payment to a now existing payee. Given the time between
the previous payments and the payment on 30 March 2021, Im also not persuaded this
payment ought to have flagged with Monzo.
I am mindful on 31 March 2021 Mrs G made seven payments in total to B and that credits
were received into the account prior to the payments made. Ive thought carefully about this,
but with all things considered, I cant safely conclude the payments she made to B on
31 March 2021 ought to have been a red flag to Monzo. I acknowledge the payments Mrs G
made were to B which was a cryptocurrency exchange. And I recognise there is a balance
the banks need to strike, in terms of its customers who genuinely invest in cryptocurrency
and in it identifying those that are unusual and out of character. With this in mind, I dont
think the sole fact that a transaction is made to a cryptocurrency provider in and of itself
means the transaction is expected to flag with the bank.
In this case, I have to keep in mind, given the payment to B early on in the accounts usage,
that by the time of the payments on 31 March 2021, payments to B wouldve appearedsomewhat typical for the account. There were credits made into Mrs Gs account prior to the
payments she made to B but I can see she had received a credit into her account ahead of
making a payment out prior to the initial payment she made in January 2021. So it follows
that Im not persuaded the credits prior to the payments themselves ought to have put
Monzo on notice that Mrs G might have been at risk of financial harm in this particular case.
So with all things considered, Im not currently persuaded the payments Mrs G made here
were so unusual or suspicious to Monzo that it ought to have intervened and asked
questions about the payments in the particular circumstances of this case before the
payments were processed.
Did Monzo do enough to try and recover Mrs Gs money once it was aware of the fraud?
Mrs G reported the scam to Monzo at around 13:30 on 7 April 2021 and, around 18:50
Monzo asked Mrs G some questions to get a better understanding of the scam. This
message was responded to by Mrs G around 13:55 on 8 April 2021  with Monzo then
sending notification to the beneficiary bank around 16:16 that day.
From the above, there was some delay by both parties in the lead up to notifying the
beneficiary bank of the loss.
However, from the information provided, Im mindful Mrs G has explained the scammer used
remote access to guide her in how to move the funds from her account with B onto the
scammer. As Mrs G has told us the funds were moved out of the account prior to the scam
being reported to Monzo, I dont find any delays to have impacted the recovery of the funds
since there were no funds to recover at the point Mrs G made Monzo aware of the scam.
Monzo didnt reply to the provisional decision by the deadline given and so its been taken 
that it has nothing further to add. Mrs Gs representative replied disagreeing with the findings 
and provided additional comments. Ive read the further comments and summarised these 
as: 
Mrs G disagrees that the payments she made werent remarkable enough to have 
caused the bank concern  particularly in respect of the £2,002 payment. 
Mrs G believes five months of account activity is enough to establish the typical 
account usage and, for her to make a payment of £2,002 is high, in comparison to 
her typical spending behaviour. 
There was information available at the time about cryptocurrency exchanges, such 
as B that the bank ought to have known about, and at the time Mrs G made the 
payments to B it wouldve had the time to put mechanisms in place to detect this type 
of fraud. 
Mrs G believes the original outcome reached by the investigator was fair in the 
circumstances, particularly due to the high frequency of payments on the same day.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Mrs G that Ive thought carefully about the additional comments provided, 
but having done so, I dont find these change my conclusions. 
The additional comments provided, reiterate Mrs Gs thoughts about the payments she 
made and why she thinks they were unusual for her account and ought to have caused Monzo concerns  given who the payments were being sent to. But within my provisional 
decision, Ive already set out my reasons as to why I dont agree (copied above) and so I 
wont repeat them again here. 
In summary, I dont think the payments Mrs G made were so unusual or suspicious to Monzo 
that it ought to have intervened and asked questions about the payments in the particular 
circumstances of this case before the payments were processed. I also dont find any delays 
in notifying the beneficiary bank of the loss to have impacted the recovery of the funds
since there were no funds to recover at the point Mrs G made Monzo aware of the scam.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs G and that she does not agree with my 
findings, but for the reasons Ive explained above and within my provisional decision (copied 
above), I cant safely say Monzo ought to reimburse the money Mrs G has lost. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman