DRN-4028318
The complaint
Mrs A complains Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited treated her unfairly when dealing with 
an escape of water claim under her buildings insurance policy. 
Any reference to Mrs A includes the actions and comments of her representative who has 
been managing the claim on her behalf. And any reference to Admiral includes the actions of 
its agents. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened. 
Mrs A has a buildings insurance policy which is underwritten by Admiral. 
In mid-August 2022, she made a claim under the policy for an escape of water which 
had stemmed from her neighbours water pipe and caused significant damage to her 
home.
Admiral accepted the claim but by late September, remedial works hadnt begun, and 
Mrs A was unhappy that she was being passed between Admirals agents. 
Discussions were had between the parties about the quote provided by Mrs As 
contractor to complete the repairs because it included additional works which needed 
to be validated first. 
In October, having started to strip out the property, it was apparent that  because of 
the damage being left and therefore, worsening - Mrs A wouldnt be able to use her 
bedroom. Admiral offered alternative accommodation, but Mrs A refused  preferring 
to stay in her home.  
In late October, it came to light that additional drying was required and that a rot 
specialist needed to attend to determine if the rot pre-dated the escape of water. 
Admiral again offered Mrs A alternative accommodation having noted her concerns 
about not being able to use her home at Christmas - but she declined. 
In early December, owing to the cost of the repair works potentially exceeding 
£100,000, the claim was referred to Admirals major loss team for consideration. 
Unhappy with the lack of progress  and the situation being exacerbated by Mrs A 
being elderly  her representative complained to Admiral.
In its final response Admiral accepted that it hadnt progressed Mrs As claim as it 
should have and that its communication had fallen short. It said it understood why 
Mrs A had become frustrated with the lack of clarity and that in the absence of one 
person having oversight of the claim, it could see why she was confused as to what 
was happening. It also apologised for not having identified all affected areas when 
stripping out the property. In recognition of this it paid Mrs A £350 compensation. 
Mrs A remained unhappy and so brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it and didnt uphold it as they considered the compensation to be fair. 
Mrs As representative disagreed because it didnt account for the distress and 
inconvenience shed experienced whilst representing her mother during the claim. 
The Investigator explained Mrs As representative isnt an eligible complainant and so 
compensation cant be considered for the impact Admirals claim handling had on 
her. Mrs As representative disagreed and so, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues to consider here. First, is whether the compensation paid by Admiral is 
fair in the particular circumstances, and second, whether Mrs As representative is entitled to 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience she says shes experienced.
But before I address these points, I must make it clear that Im only considering events up 
until the date of Admirals final response letter in December 2022. I understand Mrs A has 
raised a subsequent complaint with Admiral which is about how the claim has progressed 
after this time, but that will be considered separately. 
Is Admirals compensation fair? 
Incidences involving an escape of water, particularly where the damage is extensive as it is 
in this case, by their nature, are often distressing for homeowners so it wouldnt be fair to 
hold Admiral responsible for distress which is inevitable. But I can consider whether Admiral 
handled the related claim in line with its obligations and without unnecessary delay or 
difficulty.
The Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) says an insurer must handle 
claims promptly and fairly. Whats prompt will depend on the circumstances and so, there 
isnt a defined period of time in which a claim should be handled. But where theres lots of 
damage and remedial works required, things will obviously take longer. 
As Mrs As claim is about damage caused by an escape of water, its not easy to say with 
certainty how long it should take to complete the repairs. Thats because the affected areas 
need to be dried first. And as with Mrs As claim, further damage came to light later which 
required further drying - therefore, extending the life of the claim. 
Admiral has accepted that issues with its agents  namely, a lack of communication between 
them and in turn, Mrs A - contributed to things taking longer. It does seem unreasonable that 
three months after the claim was first logged, repairs had only got as far as stripping out and 
drying the affected areas  and that because not all the affected areas were identified at the 
outset, the claim didnt progress as it should. This, coupled with the fact, Mrs A is an older 
consumer and considered more vulnerable according to her representative, persuades me 
that compensation was warranted in the circumstances.  
In determining whether the compensation is fair, I must keep in mind that its reasonable for Admiral to satisfy itself the damage is covered under the policy  and to do so may mean 
employing the services of a specialist. As well as this, Ive kept in mind that Admiral did on 
various occasions offer to source Mrs A alternative accommodation given the state of her 
property, but that Mrs A declined this.
Whilst I understand Mrs A may have been reluctant to leave her home, by offering 
alternative accommodation Admiral tried to lessen the impact the claim was having on her by 
providing somewhere else to live. So, whilst it may not have suited Mrs A to move out, Im 
satisfied Admiral acting reasonably in offering it as an option. So, on balance, Im satisfied 
£350 compensation reasonably reflects the difficulties Mrs A experienced during this period, 
and I wont be asking Admiral to increase it. 
Compensation for a representative
Mrs As representative has said the compensation awarded isnt sufficient because it doesnt 
reflect the distress and inconvenience shes experienced whilst dealing with the claim on Mrs 
As behalf. 
I dont doubt Mrs As representative has found overseeing the claim stressful - its apparent 
from the claim notes that shes had to regularly get in touch with Admiral to find out what was 
happening with the claim and her exasperation is apparent in correspondence. 
But, as our Investigator explained, Mrs As representative isnt an eligible complainant and 
so, this Service cant award compensation to her personally. 
The rules on eligible complainants can be found in the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) 
which form part of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook. Of relevance is DISP 
2.7.1R which states:
A complaint may only be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman Service if it is 
brought by or on behalf of an eligible complainant. 
DISP 2.7.2R explains that a complaint can be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant 
by a person authorised by the complainant or by law. This is the situation here as Mrs As 
representative is a Power of Attorney and so, authorised in law to act on Mrs As behalf. But 
being a Power of Attorney doesnt mean Mrs As representative is an eligible complainant 
and therefore, entitled to compensation. 
Ultimately, unless a representative is also an eligible complainant (as defined in DISP 
2.7.3R), this Service wouldnt be able to award compensation for distress and inconvenience 
to them. And from what Ive seen, Im not satisfied Mrs As representative is an eligible 
complainant and so, I wont be directing Admiral to pay her compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman