DRN-2833459
The complaint
Mr S complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited didnt deal properly with a claim he 
made on his motorcycle insurance policy after the theft of his bike.  
What happened
As the facts are well known to the parties, I wont repeat them here. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S started a claim for the theft of his bike in 2016 - but withdrew it when the bike was 
found - I can see why MCE recorded it as notification only. I can also see why, when Mr S 
took out another policy in 2020, and was asked a clear question about whether hed made a 
claim (or had a loss) in the last five years, he said he hadnt. MCE said hed made a careless 
misrepresentation, in breach of The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). But I dont think Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to misrepresent 
the facts. He knew hed withdrawn the 2016 claim, and that he hadnt  suffered any loss. As I 
dont think Mr S breached CIDRA, I think MCE should pay his claim in full (not just the third 
of it paid so far) plus interest. I think it should also pay Mr S £100 compensation, given that 
the partial settlement he got from MCE caused him worry, upset and financial problems.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance Company Limited 
to pay Mr S £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience. It should also pay the full 
amount of his claim. It should add interest to the extra sum to be paid - at the simple yearly 
rate of 8% - from the date of the initial partial payment to Mr S to the date of settlement. If 
MCE thinks its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much it has taken off. It should also provide a tax deduction 
certificate if required, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman
