DRN-4195195
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W have complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
recorded claims under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W contacted RSA to make a claim under the home emergency part of their 
policy to deal with rats in their home. When they were later sent the home insurance renewal 
documents, Mr W and Mrs W found that the four visits to deal with the rodents had been 
recorded as four separate accidental damage claims.
Mr W and Mrs W complained because they said there had been one claim with multiple 
visits. They said it was inaccurate to record it in this way and that it had affected their home 
insurance premium with RSA and their ability to get quotes from other insurers.
When RSA replied, it didnt uphold the complaint. It said the claims had been recorded 
correctly and hadnt affected the no claims discount. It said different insurers might differ in 
their approach to previous claims and that the renewal premium it offered was no more 
expensive than the equivalent new business price.
As Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree with RSA, they continued to ask it to look at the full details 
of their complaint. RSA later sent another response to the complaint. This said it would 
remove the previous claim entries and record the claims as a single claim. It said it would 
also apply an endorsement to the paperwork to explain the correct information and offered 
£300 compensation as a goodwill gesture. RSA also confirmed that the no claims discount 
and the premiums hadnt been affected by the way the claim had been recorded.
When Mr W and Mrs W complained to this service, our investigator didnt think RSA needed 
to do anything further. He said RSA had now made a fair offer in response to the complaint 
by updating databases with the correct information and offering £300 compensation.
As Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont require RSA to take any further action. I will explain why.
Im aware of Mr Ws strong views about this complaint and have considered all the 
information provided. Ive focussed on what I consider are the key issues in order to make a 
fair and reasonable decision. If I dont refer to something, it doesnt mean that I havent 
thought about it or considered it. I should also note that complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity and I also cant tell a business how it should operate. My role is to look at individual 
complaints, which is what Ive done here.
Mr W and Mrs W were concerned that what they thought was one claim under the home 
emergency part of their policy was recorded as four separate accidental damage claims. 
RSA initially said the way the claim was recorded was correct. I can understand why Mr W 
and Mrs W were concerned by the first response to their complaint and were of the view that 
it didnt properly address the issues raised. Following Mr W and Mrs W continuing strongly to 
argue this was incorrect, RSA looked again at what happened and agreed to record it as one 
claim and to update external and internal databases. If RSA hadnt already agreed to take 
this action, this is what I would have required it to do. This is because, in terms of the claims, 
this put Mr W and Mrs W in the position they should have been, which was that there was 
one claim with multiple visits.
Im aware Mr W and Mrs W were concerned by the level of effort they put in to get RSA to 
fully consider their complaint. Looking at the response to the first complaint, I can 
understand they didnt think the complaint had been properly understood or investigated. 
When RSA responded to the second complaint, although I think the action it agreed to take 
was fair, I think the response could have been clearer and better explained why its position 
had changed on how the claims would be recorded. Im also aware Mr W and Mrs W have 
said, for example, that the second response to the complaint should have said that the 
infestation was one continuous event. But the RSA response did say that it would be 
recorded as a single claim and that it would also apply an endorsement that said this.
Im mindful Mr W has said he put in hundreds of hours to pursue his complaint. I dont doubt 
Mr W continuing to pursue the complaint led to RSA looking at the complaint again and 
affected its position on the claim. Im also aware Mr W and Mrs W were given referral rights 
to this service when RSA responded to the first complaint. Mr W explained to this service 
that he needed to continue to pursue the complaint with RSA to ensure he had a clear 
understanding of what he was challenging and his reasons for this. Although I accept Mr W 
thought the amount of time he put into the complaint was necessary, I think the £300 
compensation offered by RSA was reasonable in the overall circumstances and is in line 
with what I would have required RSA to pay.
Mr W and Mrs W have said four claims being recorded led to an increase in their RSA 
premium. RSA checked whether the claims had affected the renewal premium and 
confirmed it didnt. Mr W and Mrs W have also said the four claims affected their ability to get 
other quotes and the premiums offered. Ive looked at the screenshots Mr W and Mrs W 
provided of other quotes. Different insurers will take into account different information in 
order to calculate a premium. Some consider previous claims and others dont. Insurers 
might also consider the same risks differently to each other and also have a different way to 
calculate a premium. Even for like for like cover, different insurers might charge very 
different premiums and some might not be willing to offer cover at all. The information Ive 
seen doesnt persuade me that RSA listing the four claims was a key factor in whether Mr W 
and Mrs W could obtain cover elsewhere and the cost of other policies.
Im aware Mr W and Mrs W have also said they were able to get an online quote for a policy 
through the same brand name their existing policy was under for about £100 less. They have 
said they were then told by RSA that, because of the claims, the only cover it was willing to 
offer was under the existing policy. However, I dont think I can fairly say that Mr W and Mrs 
W lost out because of this, as I havent been able to compare the policies to see whether 
they provided the same level of cover, had the same excess and a range of information to 
see if they were like for like policies. Again, the information Ive seen doesnt show me that 
the four claims was a key factor. There are a number of reasons and variables that can 
affect the cost of a policy.
Having considered the full circumstances of this complaint, I dont require RSA to do 
anything further in relation to it.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited doesnt need to do anything further in relation to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman