DRN-3518840
The complaint
Mrs C complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down her claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
Mrs C bought a timeshare from a timeshare supplier in April 2007, paid for by way of a loan 
from BPF. The loan was paid off in November 2008.
In January 2021, Mrs C, using a professional representative (F), made a claim against BPF 
under s.75 and s.140A CCA for problems she said she had had with the timeshare. 
BPF responded to the claim, but said most of it had been brought too late under the 
provisions set out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). But there was a breach of contract claim 
that had been made in time, so it considered that claim. BPF said that as the management of 
the timeshare was now being handled by a different company, Mrs C was still able to use 
her timeshare in the way she had before, so there was no breach of contract. It also treated 
the claim as a complaint that the Financial Ombudsman Service was able to consider. So it 
said that if Mrs C was unhappy with the outcome it reached she could refer a complaint to 
our service, which she did.
In response, F made a number of arguments on Mrs Cs behalf. It argued that the time limits 
set out in the LA only applied to court actions and not to raising complaints with our service. 
Further, F argued that any action under s.75 and s.140A CCA was not time barred due to 
the operation of s.32 LA. Here it was said that a breach of Regulation 14(3) of The 
Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 
Timeshare Regulations) was deliberately concealed from Mrs C and she was not aware of 
the complexities of the timeshare agreement until she took advice. That meant Mrs C had 
longer to make a claim under s.32 LA.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that BPF had acted fairly 
in turning down the claim. She thought that the claim Mrs C made for misrepresentation 
under s.75 CCA and the claim under s.140A CCA had been made too late under the 
provisions in the LA. She also thought claim under s.75 CCA for a breach of contract by the 
timeshare supplier had been made in time, however she did not think there was evidence to 
suggest there had been a breach of contract. She gave Mrs C fourteen days to respond to 
the view.
F asked for an extension to respond so it could take further advice from counsel on the legal 
position. That extension was granted, as was a second extension. At that point, F asked for 
a further extension and our investigator said that, as the parties had not agreed with the 
view, she would arrange for an ombudsman to review the complaint, but granted a further 
fourteen days for F to send in any further evidence or arguments. After then, F did not 
provide anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I decide complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice.
I must also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome. So although I have read everything that has been said and provided, I may not 
address every point that has been raised.
The misrepresentation claim under s.75 CCA
Mrs C said that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership to her 
when she bought it. Under the LA, Mrs C had to make that claim within six years of when 
she entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which was in April 2007  because 
that was when she said she lost out having relied on false statements of fact.
As Mrs C first made a claim to BPF in January 2021, that fell outside of the time limit set out 
in the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under 
s.9 LA, Mrs C had to make her claim within six years of when the loan ended  which was in 
November 2008. But as the claim was made in January 2021, it was made outside of the 
time limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. Having 
considered the facts of this complaint, I do not think the lime limits set out above could be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
I think Mrs Cs claims made under the CCA have been made too late and outside of the 
limitation periods. That finding is not to be confused with the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) that set out when the Financial Ombudsman 
Service can consider complaints about the activities of firms the FCA regulates.
Mrs C made claims under the CCA. Such claims are first made to the responsible business 
and, if the business does not accept them, a consumer has several options. They could refer 
their claim to a court and ask a judge to determine it, or, as has happened in this case, they 
could ask our service to consider a complaint about the business decision to turn down their 
claim.
DISP says that a consumer has six years in which to complain about an event or, if longer, 
three years after they realised or ought reasonable to have realised that they had a reason 
to complain. Those rules apply to complaints about regulated financial activities, which in the 
current context, is the way in which BPF exercised its rights and duties under a regulated 
agreement when it assessed the CCA claims.The claim was dealt with less than six years before the complaint was referred to our 
service. Further, while there was more than six years between the sale and the claim, I 
cannot see anything that would have triggered Mrs C to realise she had a possible reason to 
complain about the things she did before she spoke with F. However, Mrs C made legal 
claims to BPF and, when it considered those claims, it relied on defences available under 
the LA. So that is why I have considered that legislation.
I had been asked to consider s.32 LA, which states that in cases where an action is based 
on the fraud of the defendant or a fact relevant to the right of action has been deliberately 
concealed from the claimant by the defendant, the limitation period only starts to run from 
when a claimant discovers the fraud or concealment (or could have discovered it using 
reasonable diligence).
One reason it has been suggested this applies is because the timeshare provider concealed 
from Mrs C that it was illegal to sell a timeshare as an investment, following Regulation 14(3) 
of the Timeshare Regulations 2010. Section 32(1)(b) applies where any fact relevant to the 
plaintiffs right of action has been deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. 
However the Timeshare Regulations 2010 did not come into effect for around three years 
after Mrs C bought her timeshare, so I cannot see that the timeshare provider concealed 
anything about how its sale complied with the Timeshare Regulations 2010. Nor do I think 
there is any evidence that the way in which the timeshare worked in practice was 
deliberately concealed from Mrs C. So I do not think s.32 LA assists her.
I have also considered what F says about the amount of commission that might have been 
paid by BPF to the timeshare provider for arranging the loan. F argues that BPF should have 
told Mrs C about that. From what I have seen across the industry, if commission was ever 
paid it tended to be low and of less than 10%. I am satisfied BPF did not breach any duty in 
making such a payment, nor was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of 
commission paid in these circumstances. Further, I do not think the levels of commission 
that are normally paid in this situation were sufficiently high to mean that BPF should have 
appreciated not disclosing commission to Mrs C risked the relationship being unfair under 
section 140A.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that Mrs C is able to rely on s.32 LA here either. For 
the avoidance of any doubt, I should also make it clear that I have seen nothing to show that 
the timeshare provider was acting as agent to Mrs C. I cannot see that its role was to make 
an impartial or dis-interested recommendation about taking out the loan. And I do not think 
the timeshare provider needed to disclose the fact that it might have received a commission 
to Mrs C.
As I have said, I think any commission paid here was unlikely to be more than 10%. So, 
even if I was satisfied that Mrs C could rely on s.32 LA to assist with this part of her 
complaint, I am not persuaded it is likely a court would conclude that any commission paid 
created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship.
Overall, I think BPF fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the s.75 CCA 
misrepresentation and s.140A CCA claims were made too late. It is ultimately for the courts 
to decide whether or not any claim that Mrs C may have against the supplier or BPF has 
expired under the LA. But, as far as I can see from the information available, those claims 
that Mrs C might have against the timeshare supplier and/or BPF have most likely exceeded 
the time limits set out in the LA . I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these 
circumstances. And I am not persuaded that BPF acted unfairly in declining the claims.
The breach of contract claim under s.75 CCAAs I understand things, in 2020, the ownership of the timeshare club Mrs C had joined was 
transferred to another business. BPF says the rights and obligations toward timeshare 
holders were assigned to this new company and that members the club, such as Mrs C, are 
still able to use their memberships.
But I make no finding as to what Mrs Cs current position is under any agreements, as I am 
considering whether there has been a breach of contract that BPF could be jointly liable for
under s.75 CCA. And at present, I have not been directed to any specific term of the contract 
that F says has been breached. I have seen that F has said to BPF that Mrs Cs contract 
was with the timeshare supplier and as that business is in liquidation, Mrs C cannot enforce 
any of her rights under the contract. But to find that was a breach of contract (such that, for 
example, Mrs C was not getting something she was previously entitled to), I would need to 
know what rights have been assigned to another business and what specific rights Mrs C 
feels she has lost. I have not seen enough to suggest that there has been a breach of 
contract for which BPF could be jointly liable.
BPFs decision to lend
F argues that BPF did not undertake a proper affordability check when deciding to lend to 
Mrs C. In any complaint about lending there are a number of matters to consider. First, at the 
time Mrs C took out her loan, a lender had to undertake a borrower focused assessment and 
check of affordability to make sure a prospective borrower was able to repay any credit in a 
sustainable way. Secondly, if such checks were not carried out, it is necessary to determine 
what the right sort of checks would have shown. Finally, if the checks showed that the 
repayment of the borrowing was not sustainable, I need to consider whether the borrower 
lost out as a result of the decision to lend.
Mrs C said that the right sort of checks did not take place. She may be right that BPF did not 
do the right sort of checks, but I make no finding on that point. That is because she has not 
provided anything to show that the lending was not affordable for her. I have seen nothing to 
suggest there were any affordability issues, such as missed payments or other financial 
difficulties at the time of the loan. So, I am not persuaded that the complaint should be 
upheld on that basis.
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I think BPF acted fairly in turning down Mrs C claims under 
s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late and I have not seen evidence that could 
amount to a breach of contract. I do not think there is any evidence to suggest the lending 
was irresponsible or unaffordable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint against Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman