DRN-2931861
The complaint
Mr W complains Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) sold his outstanding 
balance due on a loan to a third-party collection agency, even though he was making the 
repayments that he had agreed to pay.
 
What happened
Mr W took a £1,000 loan on 12 April 2019. He was due to make 104 weekly repayments of 
£23. However, Mr W appeared to get into difficulties, and his payments became sporadic. 
But it seems an agreement was put in place to pay £25 every other week.
 
Mr W says he tried to make a payment on 3 June 2021 but wasnt able to. It also seems that 
Mr Ws account couldnt be located by Provident. He subsequently raised a complaint. 
Provident, issued a final response letter (FRL) on 19 June 2021 not upholding his complaint.
Provident explained that as Mr W hadnt maintained the contracted rate and frequency of 
payment it had made a decision to transfer the account to a third-party collection agency. It 
was for this reason that the payment was unsuccessful. 
Mr W, unhappy with this response, referred his complaint to our Service. In his complaint 
form, he told this Service that he never heard from Provident and the agent hadnt turned up 
to collect the money. He also says that his bank statements show payments were going out 
of his account every two weeks. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and felt it shouldnt be upheld. She said the 
statement of account showed the loan account was in arrears and so it wasnt wrong of 
Provident to pass the outstanding loan balance to a third party. 
 
Provident appear to have agreed with the adjudicators assessment.
 
Mr W didnt accept the adjudicators assessment and he asked for the complaint to be 
looked at again. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ws complaint is that he feels its unfair that Provident passed his account to a 
third-party debt collection agency, when he had been maintaining his payments of £25 every 
other week. 
I think its worth noting, that when Mr W took the loan he agreed to pay Provident £23 each 
week for 102 weeks. And it is clear to me, based on the statement of account provided to 
this Service by Provident, that Mr Ws payments have been fairly sporadic to Provident 
during this time. 
For example, Mr W doesnt make any repayments towards the loan in September 2019, 
December 2019, March 2020, April 2020, September 2020 and December 2020. And 
outside of these dates, payments werent always being made weekly, and for the contractual 
amount.
I can see, that from January 2021, Mr W had been paying Provident £25 almost every other 
week, before Provident took the decision to pass the loan balance to a third party. 
But I do agree with Provident here about Mr Ws repayments. While Mr W had been broadly 
sticking to the £25 every other week, he was significantly in arrears on the loan account and 
as Ive shown above, there were periods of time when no payments were made at all. 
The Cash Loan product explanation that wouldve likely been made available to Mr W at the 
time the agreement was entered into says;
You should, however, be aware that missing payments could have other serious 
consequences including termination for the Agreement, the selling of your account 
and even court proceeding by the account purchaser. 
The above statement is in relation to late payments and / or missed payments and is also 
echoed within the terms and conditions of the loan account, that can be found in the credit 
agreement. 
In this instance, Im satisfied that Mr W hadnt been able to make his contractual weekly 
repayments for some time, and the supplementary information is clear that Provident, can, if 
it wishes pass the loan account to a third party collection agent  which is what it has done. 
This means, that unfortunately, Im not able to uphold the complaint because I cant see that 
Provident has done anything wrong when it passed the loan to a third party. 
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Its also worth noting, from the statement of the account that it doesnt appear Mr W has 
been charged extra interest, fees or charges as a result of the way the loan has been repaid 
to date. But, now that Mr Ws account has been passed to the third party, he may want to 
consider agreeing a suitable repayment plan with the company. Provident will no longer 
collect payments towards the outstanding balances that is due.
 
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed by the outcome that Ive reached, but I do hope my 
explanation has been useful for him to understand why Ive reached the outcome that I have.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman