DRN-2722565
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he took on hire purchase from MI Vehicle Finance Limited (Mann 
Island) wasnt of satisfactory quality and that he should be entitled to reject it.  
What happened
Background
In March 2020 Mr W took a used car on finance from Mann Island. The car was around five
years old and had a recorded mileage of some 66,000 miles. The exact figure is disputed,
but the difference is relatively small and not significant to my overall findings. The cash price
of the car was £15,395 and Mr W paid a £2,000 deposit; after that, he was to pay £242.49 a
month and, if he wanted to keep the car at the end of the hire period, a final payment of just 
over £4,800.
Within a few weeks Mr W reported problems with car. He said there was a smell of oil, the
car pulled to the left and there were problems with the brakes. He told Mann Island that he
wanted to reject the car; it agreed to arrange an independent inspection and Mr W returned
the car to the dealership. He says he assumed the car had been rejected and that Mann
Island had accepted the rejection.
An inspection of the car took place in June 2020. That inspection recorded that the
inspecting engineer had identified an oil leak, heavy vibration at speed and worn brake
discs. The engineer did not notice a steering pull. The reports conclusions included The
vehicle is not in a condition commensurate to its age and recorded mileage.
Mann Island said, however, notwithstanding the reports conclusions, that it didnt agree that
Mr W was entitled to reject the car. It said that the car had been returned to the dealership in
poor condition  specifically, it was dirty, the paint chipped, the windscreen was
damaged and braking components had been damaged.
Investigators initial view
Mr W disputed what Mann Island had said and referred the matter to this service, where one
of our investigators considered it. He concluded, in summary, that the car had not been of
satisfactory quality at the point of delivery and that Mr W was therefore entitled to reject it.  
He recommended that Mann Island agree to the rejection, refund the £2,000 deposit (with
interest), refund all other payments made (with the exception of one monthly payment), pay
Mr W a further £150 in recognition of the trouble he had been put to and collect the car at no
cost to Mr W (if it had not already done so.) Mann Island didnt agree to the investigators
recommendations and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a conclusion that differed in some respects 
from that reached by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. 
My provisional decision
Mann Islands response to the investigators view made two main points. First, it took issue 
with the findings of the independent inspection which took place in June 2020. Those 
findings were, it said, at odds with the evidence submitted by the dealership, which showed 
that the car had been in excellent condition on delivery  with none of the faults reported in 
the independent report. Second, the car had been returned in a poor and damaged 
condition. The investigator had said that this was a separate issue, but Mann Island 
submitted that it should be considered along with Mr Ws claim that he was entitled to reject 
the car. 
I said in my provisional decision that I agreed with Mann Island that the two issues  the 
quality of the car on delivery to Mr W and its condition when he returned it  should be 
looked at together. On the evidence available to me, I concluded, provisionally, that the car 
had not been of satisfactory quality when it was delivered to Mr W; he should be entitled to 
reject it and should receive refunds of any payments he had made under the finance 
agreement, with the exception of one monthly payment. I also found, however, that there 
was evidence of damage to the car while it was in Mr Ws possession. The hire purchase 
agreement said that Mr W should pay compensation if the car was not returned in good 
condition, and the appropriate way to address that would be to adjust the refunds payable to 
Mr W. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr W sought some clarification of my provisional decision. Mann Island did not accept my 
findings. It repeated many of the points it had made in response to the investigators view, in 
particular that I had placed too much reliance on the June 2020 inspection report at the 
expense of the evidence from the dealership. It also said, in summary:
I had wrongly placed the burden of proof of showing the car was of satisfactory quality 
on it, whereas it was for Mr W to show that the car was not of satisfactory quality.
The findings of the independent report were consistent with mis-use of the car by Mr W. 
It was implausible that the dealership had not identified an oil-related problem, either 
before the car was delivered to Mr W or when it was returned. 
The exchanges between the dealership and Mr W indicate that he had a change of 
heart about that car, possibly influenced by the possibility of a lockdown because of 
Covid-19. 
The evidence from the dealership was clear and conclusive. A finding that the car was 
not of satisfactory quality must therefore mean that that evidence had been tampered 
with.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, however, I have not been persuaded that I should reach a different 
conclusion from that which I set out in my provisional findings. In reaching these 
conclusions, I have assumed that Mr W has had no use of the car since he returned it to the 
dealership. 
In court proceedings, it is usually for the person who alleges something to prove it. In some 
instances, however, that requirement is reversed  for example, under the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 where defects emerge within six months of delivery of goods. Mann Island says 
however that this exception does not apply where a consumer seeks to reject goods without giving the supplier a chance to repair them. It says that it is therefore for Mr W to show that 
the car was not of satisfactory quality. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service is not, however, a court and is not bound by the same 
rules of evidence as a court would be. Be that as it may, I am satisfied, on balance, that the 
car was not of satisfactory when it was supplied to Mr W and that it would be fair to allow him 
to reject it. 
In reaching this conclusion, I have considered all the evidence available to me, not only the 
independent report prepared in June 2020. The findings in that report differ substantially 
from the evidence submitted by the dealership, and I have had to weigh up that conflicting 
evidence carefully before making any findings.
I accept that the car was not returned in the condition required by the hire purchase 
agreement and that Mann Island can charge Mr W for the  cost of repair or other work 
needed to return the vehicle to a good condition or the amount by which the vehicles value 
has reduced as a result of [his] failure to take care of it.        
In commenting on the cars condition on its return, the dealership mentioned in particular 
damage to the paintwork and glass. Those are not items mentioned in the independent 
inspection report; that is unsurprising, since the purpose of that report was to address 
mechanical issues. The inspector concluded however that the issues he identified would 
have been present at delivery. He must therefore have considered  but rejected  the 
possibility that Mr W had been responsible for them. 
Mann Island has suggested that Mr W simply changed his mind about the car. I dont believe 
however that there is any persuasive evidence of that. In my view his exchanges with the 
dealership are consistent with him identifying mechanical issues and wanting to resolve the 
issue (by rejection) before Covid-19 restrictions made that difficult or impossible. 
Finally, I note that Mann Island, in effect, has invited me to draw the inference that the 
dealerships evidence about the cars condition before supply and after its return has been 
tampered with. That would be a surprising conclusion for me to reach, however, especially 
since that evidence was provided by Mann Island and has been kept securely on this 
services electronic case file.        
Putting things right
I indicated in my provisional decision that Mann Island should pay interest on any refunds at 
the contractual rate. Interest on refunded payments is intended, at least in part, to 
compensate a consumer for the cost of being deprived of funds and is often awarded at 8% 
a year. In this case, however, the cost to Mr W of being deprived of funds was the cost at 
which he borrowed from Mann Island, or 4.09%. 
I also indicated in my provisional decision that any refund due to Mr W should be subject to 
deductions allowed as a result of the condition of the car on its return. For the avoidance of 
any doubt, that means deductions allowed under clause 8.2 of the hire purchase agreement.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Mr Ws complaint, MI Vehicle Finance 
Limited should:
allow Mr to reject the car and treat the hire purchase agreement as at an end;
refund any payments made under the agreement (including the deposit), with the exception of one monthly payment, together with interest at 4.09% a year simple 
from the date of payment to the date of the refund  but subject to any deductions 
permitted under clause 8.2;
pay Mr W £200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which he has been put and the 
distress caused; and
(if necessary) arrange for the collection of the car at no cost to Mr W.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman