DRN-1922796
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B, trading as P, are unhappy with the way in which Allianz Insurance Plc, trading 
as Allianz Legal Protection, handled a claim made on their legal expenses insurance (LEI) 
policy.
For simplicity, I've referred to Mr and Mrs B throughout.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had the benefit of a commercial insurance policy, which included LEI.
An employment tribunal claim was issued against them in late November 2018 (the ET 
claim) which they didnt receive notification of until the second week of December 2018, as 
they were away. They instructed their own law firm (the law firm) to defend to the ET claim. 
The law firm contacted Allianz late on 17 December 2018 to notify it of the claim and initially 
Allianz advised that Mr and Mrs Bs policy didnt include cover to defend employment 
disputes. The underwriter of the other sections of the commercial insurance policy (the main 
underwriter) subsequently accepted on 21 December 2018 that there had been an error, and 
although the schedule of insurance (the Schedule) didnt stipulate this, the LEI policy 
shouldve covered employment disputes as an insured event.
In early January 2019 the main underwriter confirmed to Allianz that Mr and Mrs Bs LEI 
policy did provide cover for employment disputes, but Allianz said this was subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy. As Mr and Mrs B hadnt taken advice from its legal helpline 
before taking any action which might lead to the dismissal of an employee and hadnt 
immediately contacted it once theyd become aware of an event which may have given rise 
to a claim, it said it still wouldnt provide cover. However, a couple of days later it did agree 
to appoint one of its panel firm of lawyers (the panel firm) to assess the merits of Mr and Mrs 
B successfully defending the ET claim and, thereafter, to represent them - if the panel firm 
advised they had reasonable prospects of defending the claim. 
Mr and Mrs B agreed for that assessment to be undertaken and after the panel firm 
confirmed that they did have the requisite prospects of defending the claim, Mr and Mrs B 
said they wanted to continue to instruct the law firm to represent them to the conclusion of 
the case under the terms of the policy. Allianz didnt agree to this. Although employment 
tribunal proceedings had begun, it said Mr and Mrs B didnt have the freedom to choose their 
own legal representative to represent them under the policy.
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Allianz:
didnt allow them to appoint the law firm to represent them under the LEI policy;
unreasonably delayed accepting their claim; and
hasnt reimbursed them for the costs they incurred instructing the law firm to prepare 
and submit their response the ET claim.
 Allianz didnt uphold their complaint. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs B complained to our Service. Our 
investigator didnt think Allianz had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs B disagree so their 
complaint has now been passed to look at everything afresh and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz initially declined to provide cover on the basis that the LEI policy didnt cover 
employment disputes. As it transpired that wasnt right. However, as the LEI policy was an 
additional extra to the standard commercial insurance policy, Allianz didnt have access to 
Mr and Mrs Bs details so had to contact the main underwriter for those. 
Allianz was informed that although Mr and Mrs B did have the benefit of LEI, cover was 
limited, and the Schedule didnt include cover for employment disputes. It appears when 
finalising the Schedule, the main underwriter omitted to include all insured events covered 
under the LEI policy. And although that mistake was subsequently rectified by the main 
underwriter, I think it was reasonable for Allianz to rely on what it had been told when first 
rejecting the claim; that cover wasnt in place for employment disputes.
By the time Allianz received notification from the main underwriter that the LEI policy did 
include cover for employment disputes, the law firm had already submitted a response to the 
ET claim. Because I dont think Allianz had done anything wrong by declining the claim 
initially, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for it to be responsible for the legal fees 
incurred by Mr and Mrs B instructing the law firm to prepare and lodge a response to the ET 
claim. 
Further, a response to the ET claim had to be submitted to the employment tribunal by 
Christmas Day. I accept what Allianz says about a response needing to be submitted by 
Friday, 21 December 2018 in reality - as I think its likely most legal practices would be 
closed after that date for the festive period. The law firm had also confirmed to Allianz when 
notifying it of the ET claim on 17 December 2018 that a response needed to be urgently 
lodged with the employment tribunal by the end of the week - so within four working days of 
Allianz being first notified of the ET claim.
So, had Allianz known that the LEI policy did cover employment disputes before the date on 
which a response had to be lodged I think its unlikely any of its panel firms wouldve been in 
the positon to accept instructions to act for Mr and Mrs B at that stage, given there werent 
many working days left to Christmas Day. I think its fair to presume that the week leading up 
to the festive break is already a typically busy time for legal practices for various reasons 
and its unlikely they wouldve had the capacity to consider the evidence, assess prospects 
of successfully defending the claim, and thereafter liaise with Mr and Mrs B to draft a 
response ready to be lodged at the employment tribunal within such a short period of time.
When making this finding, Ive considered that Mr and Mrs B has said a panel firm couldve 
made an application to the employment tribunal to extend the date on which they had to 
respond to the ET claim. That may have been an available course of action, but I accept 
what Allianz says that about the success of such an application not being guaranteed. And if 
it hadnt been successful, there wouldve been limited time to prepare and lodge a response. 
Further, the employment tribunal might not have been able to consider such an application 
before a response to the ET claim was due.
After a response had been submitted on behalf of Mr and Mrs B by the law firm, Mr and Mrs 
B authorised Allianz to appoint the panel firm to assess the prospects of defending the ET claim. It advised that they had reasonable prospects of successfully defending the claim. 
However, Mr and Mrs B chose to continue to be represented by the law firm. That was, of 
course, their choice. But it doesnt mean Allianz acted unreasonably by not covering the 
costs of the law firm to represent them in the defence of the ET claim. Ill explain why. 
When considering whats fair and reasonable Im required to take into account a number of 
considerations, including relevant law and regulations. Here that includes the Insurance 
Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 (the Regulations).
Regulation 6(1) says:
Where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other 
person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or serve the 
interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that 
lawyer (or other person)
The Regulations also contain some exceptions to that freedom, one of which is set out in 
Regulation 3(3).  This says Regulation 6 doesnt apply to:
 anything done by a person providing civil liability cover for the purpose of defending or 
representing the insured in an inquiry or proceedings which is at the same time done in the 
insurers own interest under such cover.
Im satisfied the LEI policy Mr and Mrs B had the benefit of provides cover for civil liability as 
it offers indemnity for awards of compensation made by the tribunal as well as costs of being 
represented in the defence of certain employment tribunal claims.
So, in the circumstances of this particular case, Im satisfied Allianz hasnt unfairly concluded 
that Regulation 6 doesnt apply to Mr and Mrs Bs claim  and they didnt have the statutory 
right to choose their own solicitor. 
It follows that I dont think Allianz acted unfairly by not allowing Mr and Mrs B to instruct the 
law firm to represent them. Whilst, I appreciate Mr and Mrs B wanted to continue to be 
represented by the law firm who they felt were better placed to assist them defending the ET 
claim, that doesnt mean Allianz had to cover the law firms costs. After a response had been 
lodged to the ET claim, and once the panel firm advised that there were prospects of 
successfully defending the ET claim, Allianz agreed to appoint (and cover the legal costs of) 
one of its panel law firms to represent Mr and Mrs B going forwards. I think that was fair and 
reasonable, and in line with what I wouldve expected them to have done here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman