DRN-2232510
The complaint
G, a business partnership represented by Mr T, complained about Pre-Pay Technologies 
Ltd, trading as Prepay Solutions. 
One of Gs clients sent a £900 payment to Gs account, but Pre-Pay Technologies couldnt 
locate it and didnt credit the account. G had proof the money had been sent, and said the 
funds were particularly important for a business less than a year old, and at a difficult trading 
time.
What happened
On 10 January 2020, G was due to receive a payment of £900 from its main client, into its 
Tide account. Tide is an account provided by Pre-Pay Technologies Ltd, and for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to Pre-Pay Technologies Ltd as Tide in this decision.
By 13 January, the payment hadnt been credited to G s account, so Mr T rang Tide. He 
said that his client had paid by Faster Payment, and provided information which Tide 
required.
Mr T chased for an update the next day, and was told to check with the sender. He did, and 
phoned Tide back to confirm.
Mr T complained on behalf of G, and chased for an update every day over the next few 
days. On 20 January, Tides finance team said it hadnt received a payment, and closed Gs 
complaint.
On 30 January, Mr T rang Tide again. He said that hed asked the client to provide proof of 
the payment from its bank. He provided this proof to Tide. 
Mr T rang again the next day, and every day from 3 to 6 February, for an update. He also 
complained again. On 6 February, Tide replied saying there were no payments matching the 
details G had provided.
On 14 February, Mr T rang Tide again. He said his clients bank had said the payment had 
left the account, had been accepted by Tide, and hadnt been returned. Tide asked for the 
Faster Payment ID. But Mr T had already provided this with the proof of payment on 30 
January.
On 17 February, Tide acknowledged that G had already sent the Faster Payment ID. But it 
said it still had no record of receiving the payment. It did, however, say that on 10 January all 
incoming payments had been rejected between 5pm and 5.45pm.
On 21 February, G complained again. Tide offered G £5 compensation.  G refused.
G chased for an update about the payment four more times. On 3 March, Tide offered £50 
compensation.  
G refused, and complained to this service, represented by Mr T. It explained that it was a 
new business, less than a year old, which was £900 out of pocket. The complaint had taken 
up a lot of time, which had reduced productivity because both partners had had to take time 
from working, in order to try to find the money. Also, the payment had come from G s main 
client, and as the relationship was still in its early stages, the relationship had been soured, 
through no fault of G s. As an outcome, G wanted the money put into its account, and 
compensation for the hours of lost productivity.
Our investigator upheld G s complaint. She initially said that Tide should pay G £200 
compensation, and should contact the sender bank to trace the missing payment. Both sides 
agreed, and Tide paid G £200. But more than six weeks later, the missing £900 still hadnt 
been credited to G s account. 
So G got in touch with us again, and the investigator issued another view. She said that she 
was aware of the significant coronavirus disruption in recent months, which might have 
affected Tides ability to search for the funds. So she thought Tide should reimburse G with 
the missing £900 while it continued to look for the money. And if Tide couldnt find it, it wasnt 
to re-debit G s account, because there had been a valid payment instruction.
Tide agreed, and credited G s account with £900 on 8 July. But G didnt agree. It thanked 
the investigator, but said it had had to spend more time chasing Tide, which had pretty 
much laughed in our faces about getting this £900. G explained that it was running very low 
on cash in the most difficult trading period, and it was still having to devote its time to 
chasing Tide. So G asked for an ombudsman decision, and said it was requesting a further 
£500 compensation.  
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Financial loss  
The validity of the payment proof document provided by the clients bank hadnt been 
disputed by Tide. It had just said it hadnt received the money. I couldnt tell where the 
missing £900 is, but I accepted that the payment proof was valid. 
I also noted the letter from Gs clients bank, which said that its for the beneficiary bank to 
find the money, not for the sending bank to recall. The letter explained why that was, and I 
found the explanation was a fair one.
I recognised that Tide eventually said that there had been a 45 minute period when 
payments were rejected. But the payment didnt go back to the sender. 
Where evidence isnt conclusive, or conflicts, I make my decision on what I think is most 
likely to have happened, taking available evidence and circumstances into account. Here, I 
considered it was most likely that the missing £900 reached Tide, even though for some 
reason it didnt credit Gs account. So I found that the money should be credited to Gs 
account. Following our investigators view, I understood this was paid on 8 July.
I also said that I intended to award interest on this financial loss, from 10 January 2020 when 
it should have reached Gs account, to 8 July 2020 when it was paid. Interest is payable at 
8% pa simple. Tide should provide G with a certificate of interest if required.Compensation
I carefully considered how much compensation Tide should pay for the distress and 
inconvenience which G suffered. First, I noted that G is a partnership. If it were a limited 
company, compensation is not calculated in the same way, because an organisation cannot 
suffer distress. Compensation for a partnership, however, is calculated in the same way as 
for individuals. 
It was clear that G spent a lot of time chasing Tide between 13 January and 3 March, and 
again in June after our investigators first view. I accepted that G was a young company, so 
the missing £900 was a significant sum which would have been particularly important.
Gs two partners also had to spend time contacting the client who sent the missing money. I 
accepted that the time Gs partners spent chasing Tide, and the client, was time which they 
couldnt spend developing their young business.
G also told us that the client who sent the missing payment was their main client. I checked 
the bank account, and this was borne out by the frequency of payments from that client. I 
accepted that this would have been particularly stressful, awkward and embarrassing, 
because the relationship with the client was relatively new. Effectively, G was being asked to 
question the clients integrity, as well as requiring the client to ask their own relationship 
manager to get involved. G had to chase the client repeatedly, mainly as a result of Tides 
requests, and I accepted that that was bound to strain the new relationship. Some of those 
requests werent necessary  for example when Tide told G it had to get the clients bank to 
recall the payment. As Ive quoted above, it wasnt up to the clients bank to do that. 
I also considered that the length of time when Tide couldnt find the payment added to Gs 
distress and inconvenience. G sent the clients banks proof of payment on 30 January. Tide 
asked for the information again on 14 February, even though it already had it. And despite 
having had this proof on 30 January, but the end of June Tide was still saying it couldnt find 
the money. Its understandable that G would feel frustrated by that.
I also noted that on 17 February, Tide told Mr T that some incoming payments had been 
rejected between 5pm and 5.45pm. I didnt know whether that was when the missing 
payment was sent by Gs client. I hadnt seen anything to show that Tide checked whether 
Gs incoming payment was one of those rejected. 
Taken overall, I didnt consider Tide investigated the missing payment sufficiently promptly. It 
was still saying it couldnt find the payment by late June. The result of these delays was that 
there was additional distress and inconvenience for G. 
I also bore in mind that after both sides accepted the investigators first view, Tide showed 
no signs of finding or crediting the missing £900. This caused extra distress and frustration, 
and extra inconvenience through further chasing, all at a time when G thought the problem 
had been resolved. So I found that it would be appropriate for Tide to pay more 
compensation than the parties originally agreed.
I recognised that the coronavirus situation caused problems. From late March, Tide wouldnt 
have had resources in the office. I didnt know what arrangements it had for staff to work 
from home, but clearly this was a difficult time. But coronavirus would have caused problems 
for G, too, and as Mr T has said, it was the most difficult trading time they had ever 
experienced. So the loss of £900 which they were rightly due was significant. Importantly, 
too, much of the delay happened before lockdown in late March.When considering compensation, this service doesnt aim to fine or punish businesses. 
Thats the role of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. And I considered that Gs 
request for a further £500, in addition to the £200 already paid, would be disproportionate.
On the other hand, I found Tides original offer of £5 compensation for the loss of £900 far 
too low. This isnt in line with what this service would recommend in these circumstances, 
and it suggested to me that the individual circumstances, and impact on its customer, hadnt 
been taken into account by Tide. Its subsequent offer of £50 was also inadequate.
Having taken all the circumstances into account, I considered that a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation is £350.  Tide has paid £200 of this, which would leave £150 still to 
pay.
So my provisional decision was that I intended to order Pre-Pay Technologies Limited, 
trading as Prepay Solutions, to pay G:
- Interest at 8% simple on the £900 missing payment from 10 January 2020 to 8 July 
2020 when it was credited to Gs account;
- £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience. I understood that £200 had 
already been paid, leaving a further £150 outstanding;
- I confirmed that if the £900 missing payment had not already been credited to Gs 
account, I would have ordered this to be paid. I said it was not to be re-debited if Pre-
Pay Technologies Limited doesnt find the funds. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither G, nor Tide, replied to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider my original conclusions were fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Pre-Pay Technologies Limited, 
trading as Prepay Solutions, to pay G:
- Interest at 8% simple on the £900 missing payment from 10 January 2020 to 8 July 
2020 when it was credited to Gs account;
- Compensation for distress and inconvenience. I consider £350 is a fair and 
reasonable amount. I understand that £200 has already been paid, leaving a further 
£150 outstanding;
- I confirm that if the £900 missing payment had not already been credited to Gs 
account, I would have ordered this to be paid. It is not to be re-debited if Pre-Pay 
Technologies Limited does not find the funds. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman