DRN-2967578
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (Argos) are reporting 
arrears to her credit file.
What happened
In October 2019, Ms H emailed Argos and advised that shed sought help from a debt charity 
to help her manage her financial affairs. Ms Hs email requested that Argos put her account 
on hold until the debt charity arranged a payment plan with them. However, when Ms H 
checked her credit file sometime later, she noticed that Argos were reporting that her 
account was in arrears. Ms H wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Argos looked at Ms Hs complaint, but they noted that they hadnt agreed to put Ms Hs 
account on hold and that Ms H had therefore fallen into arrears when she stopped making 
payments towards her account before the payment plan with the debt charity was agreed. 
Argos also noted that theyd sent correspondence to Ms H which had confirmed that her 
account was in arrears at that time. Because of this, they didnt feel that theyd done 
anything wrong and they didnt uphold Ms Hs complaint.
Ms H wasnt satisfied with Argos response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also noted that it hadnt been 
confirmed to Ms H that her account would be put on hold such that she didnt need to 
continue to make payments, and that statements had been sent by Argos to Ms H advising 
of her arrears. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms H remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H explained to this service that she emailed Argos to advise that she had sought help 
from the debt charity and that she requested that Argos put a hold on her account until the 
debt charity arranged a repayment plan with them. Ms H also stated that Argos agreed to 
her request that her account be put on hold, and that it was for this reason that she stopped 
making payments towards the account.
Unfortunately, neither Ms H or Argos retain a copy of the message that Ms H sent, so Im 
unable to confirm the specifics of what Ms H stated in that email. However, I have seen a 
copy of the response that Argos sent to Ms H, and theres no reference to a request for the 
account to be put on hold in that response.
The Consumer Credit (CONC) section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook 
details what a business must do when a customer advises them that they have sought help 
from a debt charity. Specifically, CONC 7.3.11 explains that a business:
must suspend the active pursuit or recovery of a debt from a customer for a 
reasonable period
Importantly, Ms H isnt complaining here that Argos continued to pursue the active recovery 
of a debt, but rather than Argos continued to treat the payments that were due on the 
account as being due on the account, and didnt suspend the requirement for monthly 
payments to be made while a payment arrangement was being brokered by the debt charity.
But there isnt any requirement for Argos to suspend the payments due on the account as 
Miss H requested here, and from the information available to me, I cant see that Argos 
agreed that Miss H wouldnt need to continue to make monthly payments while the 
repayment plan was being brokered by the debt charity.
Its also evident that Argos sent Ms H statements after she didnt make the minimum monthly 
payment which specifically stated that her account was in arrears. And, while Ms H has 
explained to this service that she didnt receive those statements, Im satisfied that they were 
sent to Ms Hs correct address, and I wouldnt consider holding Argos accountable for the 
non-delivery of sent mail. Ultimately, the responsibility for monitoring and understanding the 
status of an account rests with the account holder. 
That isnt to say that I dont sympathise with Ms Hs position here, and I can understand why 
she might have assumed that she didnt need to make ongoing payments towards the 
account while the debt charity was working with Argos on her behalf
But given all that Ive explained above, I cant fairly say that Argos have done anything 
wrong here, especially considering that theres no record of Argos agreeing that Miss H 
didnt need to make ongoing monthly payments, that theres no requirement for them to 
agree to such a request, and also that they sent notifications to Ms H confirming that her 
account was in arrears. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms H wants here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Argos to take any further action at this time. I hope 
that Ms H can understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman