DRN-2482168
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, changed the way their 
payment holiday feature works on their mortgage without telling them. They also complain 
that Halifax gave contradictory information about this when Mr B called to discuss it. 
What happened
In 2004, Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Halifax. They understood they could take a 
payment holiday of six months, and say this was a critical factor in their decision to take out 
this mortgage. In 2007, they took a new rate on their mortgage. 
In March 2020, Mr B phoned Halifax to discuss taking a payment holiday. During this call, Mr 
B was told that payment holidays could only be taken for a maximum of two months at once, 
there must be a three-year break between each payment holiday, and payment holidays of 
up to a total of six months could be taken over the lifetime of the mortgage. 
Mr B was unhappy with this and complained. He said this isnt what he agreed to when he 
took out the mortgage, and Halifax hadnt notified him of any change to the payment holiday 
feature he had signed up to and expected. He also said he was being given contradictory 
information about whether there had been a change in Halifaxs policy, and whether a 
payment holiday for six consecutive months was possible. 
Halifax didnt think it had done anything wrong, so Mr and Mrs B got in touch with us. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Halifax had 
explained how its payment holidays work during Mr Bs call with it in March 2020, and he 
didnt find that it had ever promised to grant a payment holiday of six months in one go.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept that conclusion. They said the investigators findings were both 
unfair and perverse, because if Halifax had changed its policy then the investigator couldnt 
also say they were never told they could take a payment holiday of six months in one go. 
They thought any consumer would understand the mortgage terms to mean they could take 
a payment holiday of six consecutive months. 
In the meantime, following the publication of guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) setting out steps mortgage lenders should take to support borrowers whose financial 
circumstances had been affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs B took a three-
month payment holiday. In July 2020, they then moved their mortgage to another lender. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The mortgage offer Mr and Mrs B accepted in 2007 superseded the 2004 offer and 
associated terms and conditions. It said, at section 12: you can apply for a payment holiday. 
Further information regarding other conditions applying to underpayments and payment 
holidays can be found in our booklet Information about your mortgage which we issue with 
mortgage offers. 
The relevant edition of the booklet sets out some criteria which must be met before a 
borrower can ask for a payment holiday and says, at section 15: You can have up to 6 
months of payment holidays in total throughout the term of your mortgage. Thats the same 
provision that was in the 2004 mortgage offer at section 12. So nothing changed in this 
respect.
Ive seen a copy of Halifaxs current policy for payment holidays, which Halifax says also 
applied in early March 2020, when Mr B asked about this. The policy says a maximum of two 
months can be granted in one go, and a payment holiday is allowed every three years, up to 
a maximum of six months over the life of the mortgage.
This is the policy that Halifax has said applied to Mr and Mrs B. Im satisfied that Halifax 
treated Mr and Mrs B in line with its policy and in the same way it treats its other customers. 
That policy will have changed over time but, importantly, the policy in place now isnt 
contrary to the mortgage terms. There was never any guarantee that Mr and Mrs B could 
have a payment holiday of six months in one go. Thats not what the relevant provision in the 
mortgage conditions says. It says payment holidays are always subject to certain criteria 
being met, and Mr and Mrs B could have up to 6 months of payment holidays in total 
throughout the term of your mortgage. Halifax was still offering that when Mr B enquired, 
and it didnt have to tell Mr and Mrs B about changes to its policy.
Ive listened to a recording of Mr Bs call with Halifax in early March 2020. I think there was 
some confusion during the call, and Halifax was contradictory about whether its policy had 
changed. Overall, however, I think it explained its position about payment holidays correctly 
 insofar as it wouldnt allow a payment holiday of six consecutive months. Importantly, that 
appears to have been the understanding Mr B came away with, having asked for a complaint 
to be raised. 
In all the circumstances, I dont find the fair outcome is for me to make any award or to 
require Halifax to take any other action in settlement of this complaint. 
Finally, I note that Mr and Mrs B were later able to arrange a three-month payment holiday, 
as Halifax acted in line with FCA guidance published in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 24 June 2021.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman