DRN-3767613
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that QIC Europe Ltd turned down a claim for damage to a pipe made under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M contacted QIC to raise a claim for damage to a mains supply pipe in his property. He 
said the problem was linked to a repair done by the local water company on the supply pipe 
at the front of his property.
QICs contractors attended and conducted a visual inspection. They concluded there was no 
evidence of accidental damage to the pipe and so QIC turned down the claim.
Mr M disagreed and engaged his own contractor (L) to investigate the source of the leak.    
L successfully located the leak and repaired the pipe. L concluded The primary cause of the 
leak was a burst fitting caused by the increase in water pressure that occurred when [water 
company] completed repairs to a significant water leak to the supply pipe at the front of the 
property. 
Mr M provided Ls report to QIC, but it maintained its decision to turn down his claim. QIC 
said Mr Ms claim didnt meet the definition of accidental damage under the policy.
Mr M disagreed and referred his complaint to our service. He said the circumstances which 
caused the leak meant the claim should succeed.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded the cause of the damage (a build-up of pressure from the mains supply being 
turned back on) did meet the definition of accidental damage under the policy. So, they 
recommended QIC reimbursed Mr Ms costs for tracing and repairing the leak, including 8% 
simple interest for the time he was without the funds.
QIC disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that it 
didnt think the pipe in question could be considered under the Accidental damage to mains 
services section of the policy, and the section was clear on this point. QIC added that it 
didnt think any other sections of the policy could provide cover in the circumstances either.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy covers:
Accidental damage to mains services
We will pay the costs of repairing accidental damage to underground pipes, tanks, cables 
and services (including their inspection covers) that reach from the buildings to the public 
supply and sceptic tanks, which you are legally responsible for.
And the policy defines accidental damage as:
Sudden, unexpected and physical damage which:
i. happens at a specific time; and
ii. was not deliberate; and
iii. was caused by something external and identifiable.
Its not in dispute that Mr Ms pipe was damaged. And that it was physical damage (by which 
our service considers a loss of function to the pipe). So, what I need to consider is whether 
QIC has fairly relied on the remaining terms within its definition of accidental damage to turn 
down the claim.
QIC has, at times during the claim, sought to rely on different factors to turn down the claim. 
It said the pipe isnt underground and is an internal pipe, so this section of the policy didnt 
apply. It later said there was no evidence of accidental damage to the pipe and the damage 
wasnt caused by something external, such as tree roots or heavy vehicles, due to its 
location.
Ive considered QICs reasons in turn. And having done so I find that it cannot reasonably 
rely on any of these to turn down the claim.
The pipe in question is a mains supply pipe which connects Mr Ms property to the mains 
water supply. Theres nothing in the policy section above which states that this pipe needs to 
be underground or whether it needs to be outside or inside the property. So, Im satisfied 
there is sufficient scope in the policy wording to cover this pipe as it covers services that 
reach from the buildings to the public supply.
QIC has relied on its contractors report which says there was no evidence of accidental 
damage. This report was based on a visual inspection of the property only and there were no 
investigative works done to uncover the source of the leak. The report concluded the leak 
was under the property. I dont find this report persuasive in ruling out accidental damage 
because the exact source and cause of the leak arent discussed.
With regard to whether the damage was accidental and further caused by something 
external and identifiable, Ls report concluded the problem occurred as a result of an 
increase in water pressure in the mains supply pipe.
External isnt defined in Mr Ms policy. So, Ive considered the ordinary, everyday meaning 
here which is coming or derived from a source outside the subject affected.Im satisfied that the change in pressure originated from a source outside of Mr Ms pipe (the 
water companys supply pipe), and that it happened suddenly and unexpectedly. So, I think 
the claim should succeed in line with QICs policy terms and conditions.
Mr M was required to trace the leak himself and get it repaired. Ive seen a copy of the 
invoices and I find them reasonable. I therefore uphold this complaint and direct QIC to 
reimburse Mr Ms costs. And Mr M should also be reimbursed with 8% simple interest for the 
time hes been without these funds.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to put things right, I direct QIC 
Europe Ltd to 
Settle Mr Ms claim by reimbursing his costs for tracing the leak and repairing the 
pipe, subject to any remaining policy terms and conditions (such as an excess).
Pay 8% simple interest on the above sum, from the date Mr M paid the invoice to the 
date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman