DRN-3137920
The complaint
Mrs F says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about a catalogue shopping account J D Williams provided. The account 
was opened in July 2013. Mrs F was given an initial credit limit of £175. This limit was 
increased 11 times until it eventually reached £3,500.00 in October 2017.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mrs Fs complaint and thought that J D Williams ought to 
have realised Mrs F simply wasnt in a position to have her credit limit increased to £3,000 
in October 2015 and that she wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit 
by the time it offered the increase to her credit limit of £3,500 in January 2017. J D 
Williams agreed with our adjudicator and offered to pay the redress our adjudicator 
suggested. Mrs F is disappointed with the redress and would have liked a different 
redress. So, the complaint passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs 
F could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, 
the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator thought that the early increases to the credit limit on the account were not 
examples of irresponsible lending. Both parties have seen that assessment and Mrs F has 
not raised any objection to those findings. I have reviewed the case in its entirety and 
have reached the same outcome as the adjudicator and for the same reasons. I havent 
seen anything to make me think J D Williams should have been concerned about Mrs Fs 
ability to afford the limits given before the increase in October 2015 from £2,750 to £3000. 
In the absence of any argument about that I will turn to the increase of October 2015. 
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why she thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Mrs F with the credit increase in any further credit from October 2015. Our 
adjudicator noted that JD Williams had told us it obtained credit reference data about Mrs 
F at the time of the account opening and prior to each credit limit increase and that it took 
into consideration how the account was being managed. But our adjudicator noted that in 
October 2015 the credit limit had increased ten times in a little over two years from an 
initial credit limit of £175 to a new credit limit of £3,000.00. She also noted that JD 
Williams had performed no extra checks, over and above those mentioned earlier, to 
establish that Mrs F could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable 
manner. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history with Mrs F, with a view to 
seeing if this alone may have shown any cause for concern that Mrs F could afford to 
repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. I note that Mrs F had eight 
instances of arrears in her payments in the previous twelve months. That included five 
instances of arrears in the six months prior to the increase. And those arrears whilst 
relatively small in each case, were at a frequency that ought to have alerted J D Williams 
that there might be affordability issues. In saying that Ive also considered that Mrs F had 
made two large payments during this period that cleared the balance. Mrs F told us these 
did not come from income. But from successful financial claims for miss-selling. Despite 
those two payments which amounted to over £2,000, Mrs Fs had no discernible trend of 
reducing the balance she owed. This had seen her balance grow in the year before 
October 2015 from £652.46 to an amount of £1,674.46. 
Should this information alone have been sufficient to alert J D Williams that there was a 
point at which they should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, 
or otherwise harmful? Should J D Williams have realised that it shouldnt have increased 
Mrs Fs credit limits? Our adjudicator thought so and so did J D Williams. And so do I. The 
remedy suggested is in line with our approach to these matters and is detailed below.
Our adjudicator in reviewing the whole file felt that in addition to the above Mrs Fs 
account should have been frozen after 4 October 2017. She said that because Mrs Fs 
payments were below the minimum payment required in five of the six months preceding 
October 2017 and for 13 times in the previous two years. In that time the balance had 
grown to over £2,000 despite a further large payment during that time that cleared the 
balance. This suggests to me, and should have suggested to J D Williams, that Mrs F was struggling to maintain the account and the repayments were proving unsustainable. Our 
adjudicator thought it would have been appropriate for the account to be frozen on 4 
October 2017 and for no further orders to be accepted. J D Williams agreed. And so do I. 
I think that Mrs F lost out because J D Williams provided her with an increased credit limit 
from 7 October 2015 onwards. In addition, I think that Mrs F lost out because J D Williams 
provided her with further credit from 4 October 2017 onwards. In my view, J D Williams 
actions unfairly prolonged Mrs Fs indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt 
afford over an extended period of time and the interest being added got her into further 
debt. So, J D Williams should put things right. J D Williams has agreed with this and 
offered to make the payment of redress described below. 
Putting things right
Rework her account to ensure that from 7 October 2015 onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to £2,750.00 (including any buy now pay later 
interest) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should have 
been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed: 
Because I dont think J D Williams shouldve allowed new purchases at all after 
4 October 2017, I think the account shouldve been frozen at that time. To 
reflect this, JD Williams should remove all interest and charges (including 
BNPL interest) incurred on the account since 4 October 2017.
JD Williams should work out how much Mrs F would have owed after the 
above adjustments. Any repayment Mrs F made since 7 October 2015 should 
be used to reduce the adjusted balance.
If this clears the adjusted balance any funds remaining should be refunded to
Mrs F along with 8% simple interest* - calculated from the date of overpayment 
to the date of settlement.
If after all adjustments have been made Mrs F no longer owes any money then 
all adverse information regarding this account should be removed from the 
credit file from 7 October 2015.
Or, if an outstanding balance remains, JD Williams should look to arrange an 
affordable payment plan with Mrs F for the outstanding amount. As the debt 
was sold to a third party, JD Williams are to either repurchase the debt or liaise 
with the debt purchaser, to ensure the above steps are undertaken. Once the 
balance is cleared, any adverse information should be removed from the credit 
file from October 2015. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. J D 
Williams must give Mrs F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
The above redress follows our standard approach to redress in such cases and is designed 
to put Mrs F (as close as possible) back in the position she would have been in had things 
happened as they should have. Mrs F says that as J D Williams shouldnt have allowed 
further purchases from October 2017, any additional purchases she made after that date 
should also be written off. However, as Mrs F has received the benefit of those goods she 
bought, it wouldnt be reasonable to write off the capital, otherwise she would have effectively received them for free, which is a position she would never have been in. Mrs F 
wishes wed suggested a different redress but understands our approach. I have seen no 
persuasive evidence that would suggest we should, in this case, abandon our standard 
approach to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mrs Fs complaint. J D Williams & 
Company Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman