DRN-3843808
The complaint
Ms G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) acted unfairly by defaulting her account
and recording this on her credit file.
What happened
Ms G held a credit card account with HSBC. In 2019, due to a change in her circumstances,
it became difficult for her to meet the monthly payments to the account. In February 2020,
she contacted HSBC and completed an income and expenditure review. Her outgoings were
more than her income, so HSBC agreed to put a no affordability plan in place for two
months. Ms G wasnt expected to make payments during that time and HSBC agreed not to
charge interest or contact her about missed payments while the plan was in place.
In March 2020, Ms G borrowed some money from family and made a significant payment to
the account. The no affordability plan came to an end in April 2020. Ms G got in touch with
HSBC and explained that the Covid-19 pandemic was affecting her, so she wasnt in a
position to resume monthly payments. HSBC agreed to extend the no affordability plan until
December 2020. As before, it didnt contact her about arrears during this time and didnt
charge interest.
In January 2021, Ms G told HSBC that she was working with a debt charity. HSBC allowed
her some further breathing space. This continued until around August 2021. Ms G contacted
HSBC in around June 2021 and started making monthly payments to the account again from
July 2021 onwards. In August 2021, she completed an income and expenditure review and
had a further conversation with HSBC in September 2021. She says it was agreed that she
would pay what she could afford, but HSBC says there was no agreed plan in place.
In November 2021, HSBC sent out a default notice, asking Ms G to clear the arrears by 6
December 2021. This was followed by a final demand in January 2022, asking Ms G to pay
the full outstanding account balance by 24 January 2022. HSBC says it didnt hear from Ms
G and the balance remained outstanding. So, in February 2022, it defaulted the account.
The account was later transferred to a debt collection agency which Ill call M.
Ms G says she didnt receive the default notice and didnt know the account had been
defaulted until she was told about it by M. The account remains with M and Ms G has been
making payments to them.
But Ms G didnt think the default was fair, so she complained to HSBC. HSBC said it had
applied the default correctly and couldnt remove it or change the entries on Ms Gs credit
file. 
I issued a provisional decision on 24 November 2022, indicating my intention to uphold this 
complaint and direct HSBC to pay Ms G compensation of £200. Neither party accepted the 
provisional recommendations and both provided further comments for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at everything again and taken the parties recent comments into account. But I 
havent seen anything which changes my mind about the appropriate outcome here. So Im 
going to uphold this complaint in the way I indicated in my provisional decision. My reasons 
are set out below.
Ms G first contacted HSBC in February 2020 to explain that she was struggling financially. I
think she was acting responsibly by contacting HSBC proactively and making it aware of the
situation. I think HSBC acted fairly by completing the income and expenditure review and
putting the no affordability plan in place. This was initially set up for a period of two months
but, based on numerous phone calls with Ms G from time to time, HSBC extended the plan
and applied further breathing space to her account. These arrangements were in place until
around August 2021. So, for around 18 months, HSBC didnt apply any interest to Ms Gs
account and didnt chase her for payments. I think that was fair.
The arrangements HSBC put in place over that period didnt stop payments from falling due
each month. HSBC knew Ms G couldnt pay them and had agreed not to chase her for
payments. But, as her statements showed, a minimum payment was still falling due each
month in line with the terms and conditions of Ms Gs account. I think that was reasonable.
As Ms G wasnt able to meet the minimum monthly payments, her account fell into arrears in
April 2020. No payments were made to the account until July 2021. By that time, the arrears
were significant.
Ms G says that, from July 2021, she agreed with HSBC that she would make monthly
payments according to what she could afford. Ive seen HSBCs notes of the calls with Ms G
in August and September 2021, after the breathing space expired. These confirm that Ms G
wanted to resume payments and she told HSBC that she was paying what she could afford.
But the notes record that Ms G didnt want to enter into a reduced payment plan and the call
was cut off after the agent tried to explain the collections process. I find that Ms G did make
regular payments to the account from July 2021, but these werent made under a payment
plan. There was no formal arrangement or payment plan in place to deal with the arrears.
HSBC went on to issue a default notice in November 2021 and default the account in
February 2022. Generally speaking, if a customers account is more than three months in
arrears, it can be reasonable for the bank to view it as defaulted. Id expect a bank to treat
an account as defaulted by the time a customer is six months in arrears with no arrangement
in place. Here, more than 18 months worth of arrears had built up on the account and Ms G
hadnt agreed a repayment plan with HSBC. So, under normal circumstances, I think it would
have been reasonable for HSBC to treat the account as defaulted at that point.
But the particular circumstances here lead me to think that HSBC didnt act fairly. Ms G says
that she didnt receive the default notice or any letters about the account from February 2020
onwards. From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied thats the case.
In the period from February 2020 to January 2022, HSBC sent eight letters to Ms G about
her account. These include the default notice and final demand. All of these documents were
sent to Ms Gs old address. But she wasnt living there by this stage and had told HSBC that.
HSBCs notes from February 2020 record that Ms G had moved in with family. The notes
from a phone call in May 2020 also record that Ms G had moved and no longer lived at theold address. In response to the provisional decision, HSBC said that it didnt take the new 
address in this call because the line disconnected.
But the notes from a further call that month (on 23 May) record again that Ms G was living 
with relatives and say that a correspondence address had been added. The notes ask for
paperwork to be sent to the new correspondence address. So Im satisfied that, by 23 May 
2020 if not before, HSBC had been told Ms Gs new address and had noted that 
correspondence should be sent there. But it continued to write to her at the old address.
Ms G says that the breathing space and no affordability plans were agreed with HSBC over
the phone. They were, but they were also followed up by HSBC in writing. However, as Ms
G didnt receive any of the letters, she didnt realise the arrangements were being confirmed
in writing at each stage. So its understandable that the arrangements must have seemed
fairly informal from her point of view.
But the letters included important information about how her account would be treated. For
example, the letter of February 2020 about the no affordability plan said that HSBC would
issue a default notice when the missed payments reached a certain level. It went on to
explain that, if Ms G couldnt repay the amount requested in the default notice, it would
usually send a formal demand asking her to pay the outstanding account balance in full. If
the balance remained unpaid after that step, HSBCs letter said it would consider taking legal
action or transferring Ms Gs account to its debt collection unit and that it would tell the Credit
Reference Agencies that her account had defaulted. Similar information was contained in
letters sent in May and November 2020 and July 2021.
Im satisfied that Ms G didnt receive these letters. So I dont think she was aware of the
potential consequences or likelihood of her account defaulting if she didnt manage to clear
the arrears. I find that she didnt receive the default notice either and I dont think it was
properly served because HSBC didnt send it to her last known address.
HSBC says that Ms G confirmed her old post code in a phone call in September 2021. But 
Ms G says this was just for identification purposes. Ive listened to the call. It was a call from 
HSBC to Ms G and she was asked to complete customer verification by providing her post 
code and date of birth. Ms G did provide her old post code in this context. Im satisfied that 
she had already told HSBC that she had moved and had provided her new address before 
this. I think she could have taken the opportunity in this phone call to explain it again. But Ms 
G says she has asked HSBC multiple times over a long period to update her address and it 
still hasnt done so. In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable that she simply provided 
the old post code (which she knew HSBC hadnt updated) for identification purposes when 
HSBC called her, especially as she said in the call that she was working and didnt have 
much time. I dont think it was reasonable for HSBC to continue writing to Ms Gs old 
address after May 2020 and I dont think this phone call changes that.
Ms G says that, if shed received the default notice, she would very likely have been able to
pay off the arrears as she was working at that time. But even if Ms G hadnt been able to pay
off the arrears in full, I find it likely that things would have taken a different course at that time
if she had received the letters and notice. Thats because, if shed seen the letters, Ms G
would have been aware of the possibility of her account defaulting and the consequences of
that. I havent seen anything to suggest she was made aware of these consequences by any
way other than the letters.
I think that, if Ms G had received the letters, she would have realised in September 2021
how important it was to either clear the arrears in full or (if that wasnt possible) enter into a
repayment plan. As she was able to make reasonable monthly payments at that time, I think
its likely that a formal repayment arrangement could have been agreed then. So I dont thinkthe account would have defaulted at that time if Ms G had received the letters.
Ive thought about what HSBC needs to do to put things right here. Ms G has confirmed that
theres still a balance outstanding on the account. She maintained regular payments to M up 
until this Summer, but these are currently frozen. So, any resolution needs to bear in mind 
how the outstanding balance should be dealt with going forward.
Ms G responded to the provisional decision to say that she would like the default to be 
removed and explained the impact its having on her. She says shes being penalised for a 
situation which isnt her fault. I sympathise with her point of view. But Im looking at the 
situation impartially and I think the account would have ended up defaulting at some stage, 
even if it hadnt happened in February 2022. 
In general, I think its reasonable for a business to default a customers account when its 
between three and six months in arrears without a repayment arrangement in place. Here, 
the level of arrears was significantly more. Arrangements to pay are generally intended to be 
short term solutions. Here, an arrangement to pay wouldve needed to be in place for quite 
some time to clear the arrears and Ms G is currently unable to make monthly payments. 
Ive noted her comments about her current circumstances and her expectation that she will 
be able to start payments again in the near future. I dont doubt what she says. But, in the 
circumstances, I still think its likely the account would have defaulted at some stage even if 
not in February 2022 and that, if the default were to be removed now, it could end up being 
reapplied. As I said in my provisional decision, I dont think that would be in Ms Gs best 
interests as the default would start running from a later date than currently recorded. So, 
although Im sorry to disappoint Ms G, I think its best that the account stays with M and the 
default remains in place.
Putting things right
I think the best way for HSBC to put things right here is for it to pay some compensation to
Ms G to reflect the impact of its mistakes. I think it acted fairly by applying payment breaks
and breathing space to the account over such a long period of time. But it made repeated
administrative errors by not updating her address even though she told it on numerous
occasions where she was living. This was frustrating for Ms G and meant she didnt receive
important information about her account. I think this led to the account defaulting at a time
when this may have been avoidable. It was upsetting for Ms G to discover that her account
had defaulted and to find this out from M. But, looking at the situation impartially, I think its
likely that the account would have defaulted at some stage, given the level of repayments
compared to the arrears and bearing in mind the current position.
Having taken everything into account, I still think compensation of £200 would be fair here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay 
compensation of £200 to Ms G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman