DRN-3238470
The complaint
Mr D complains about the amount that hes been charged by Arval UK Limited for damage to 
a car that he returned when he ended his hire agreement.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr D under a hire agreement with Arval that he electronically 
signed in August 2017. He agreed to make an advance payment of £1,066.61 and 47 
monthly payments of £355.54 for the car to be supplied to him. The car was collected from 
him when the agreement ended and it was inspected by a third party on behalf of Arval in 
August 2021. The inspection report identified damage to the car and recommended a charge 
of £395 for that damage. The report included photos of the damage.
Arval considered that the damage to a door justified a higher charge than the amount 
recommended in the inspection report and it charged Mr D a total of £530 for the damage. 
Mr D complained to it about the charges and said that hed not been shown the damage 
when the car was inspected. Arval said that the damage fell outside of the British Vehicle 
Rental and Leasing Association guidelines  but it agreed to reduce the charge for damage 
to the door by 50% and to remove the charges for the damage to the two wheels as a 
gesture of goodwill which reduced the total charge to £312.50. Mr D wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Arval had acted within the agreement terms and conditions and that the identified 
damages were chargeable. 
Mr D has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines say that he should have been 
shown the damage at the time of collection to avoid problems later. He also says that when 
he inspected the car prior to collection he didnt see that amount of damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mr D electronically signed the hire agreement which said: At the end of the Contract 
Term  the Hirer will make the Vehicle available for collection. A representative on 
behalf of ARVAL will complete an initial report on the mechanical and bodywork 
condition of the Vehicle including its milometer reading. The Hirer or its representative 
will sign a copy of that report upon agreement of its content ARVAL shall invoice the 
Hirer for the cost of repairs (whether or not carried out) to a Vehicle returned to ARVAL 
that is subject to damage which, in accordance with the BVRLA Fair Wear and Tear 
Guide for the Contract Hire Industry, would constitute unfair wear and tear ;
the car was collected from Mr D in August 2020 by a third party on behalf of Arval when 
the agreement ended and an inspection report was completed which identified the 
following damage to the car: a chipped bonnet, two gouged wheels, a dented door and a 
scratched bumper;
the inspection report included photos of that damage;
Ive reviewed those photos and I consider that the damage described in the report and 
shown in the photos is more than would reasonably be considered to be fair wear and 
tear in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines on 
fair wear and tear;
Mr D says that he wasnt shown the damage or the report at that time  although social 
distancing requirement may have meant that it wasnt appropriate for him to sign the 
report (as provided in the agreement), I consider that it would be reasonable to expect 
the third party to have identified the damage to Mr D at the time of the inspection;
the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association guidelines say that: the driver will be 
given the opportunity to agree with the condition of the vehicle at the point of collection  
but Mr D says that he wasnt shown the damage and Ive seen no evidence to show that 
he was given an opportunity to agree with the reports recommendations at the time of 
the inspection;
although Mr D wasnt shown the damage at the time of the inspection, I consider it to be 
more likely than not that the damage was present at that time and I find that its fair and 
reasonable that he should pay for damage to the car thats more than fair wear and tear;
Arval has reduced the charge for the damage to the door by 50% and removed the 
charges for the damage to the two wheels which reduced the total charge by £217.50 to 
£312.50  I consider that to have been fair and reasonable in the circumstances and Im 
not persuaded that it would be fair or reasobsle for me to require it to further reduce, or 
waive, the charge for the damage;
Mr D says that Arval hasnt suffered a loss from the damage  but he agreed to pay for 
the cost of repairs to any damage that would constitute unfair wear and tear  and I 
consider that its fair and reasonable that he should pay £312.50 to Arval for the damage 
to the car; and
I can understand Mr Ds annoyance and frustration that he wasnt shown the damage 
when the car was inspected but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Arval to reduce or waive the charges that its made to 
Mr D, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in response to his 
complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman