DRN-4231040
The complaint
Mr R complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his deferred defined benefit 
(DB) Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS), to a type of personal pension arrangement 
recommended to him by a financial adviser. The transfer took place in 1993.
Sesame Limited is now responsible for answering this complaint. To keep things consistent, 
Ill refer mainly to Sesame.
What happened
At the time, Mr R was a deferred member of his OPS, having been employed from the late 
1970s and he had accrued around 12 years worth of benefits. Sesames recommendation 
was to transfer away from his deferred DB scheme. Mr Rs circumstances of the time 
showed:
He was aged around 33 and in good health. He was married and had two dependent 
children.
Mr R lived in a mortgaged property with his family.  He earned around £10,000 per 
year from self-employment. 
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of the DB pension was around £15,539. 
The normal retirement age (NRA) of the scheme was 60. 
Sesame advised Mr R to transfer out of his DB scheme and invest in a with profits personal 
pension arrangement. He complained in 2022, first to Sesame itself, about this advice being 
unsuitable. Mr R thinks hes lost out financially as a result. He later complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Sesame said the complaint had been brought too late under the rules we operate by. I 
issued a jurisdiction decision on 4 July 2023 saying I thought the complaint was one we 
could look in to. Ive then gone on to look into the merits of the complaint and am now 
making a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained that at the time of the advice, the firm Mr R dealt with was a 
member of the Financial Intermediaries, Managers and Brokers Regulatory Association 
(FIMBRA). He pointed out that the FIMBRA rulebook set out the expectations on members 
when giving advice in 1988. There were some additions and amendments in the subsequent 
years up to the transfer date in this case which was in January 1993. For example:
Rule 4.2.1 required an adviser to take reasonable steps to obtain relevant information 
concerning a clients personal and financial circumstances in order to provide 
investment services.
Rule 4.3.1 required FIMBRA members to take all reasonable steps to satisfy 
themselves that the client understood the risks involved in a transaction.
Rule 4.4.1 required members to establish, based on their knowledge of the client and 
any other relevant information which ought reasonably to be known to them, which 
types of investment that were the most suitable for them.
Further amendments to the guidelines specified that advisers should ensure their 
recommendations were made based on the best interest of the client, rather than any 
income the adviser may generate. And it should also have been clearly demonstrated that 
the beneficiaries rights in the scheme were fully considered.
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the DB 
scheme was in Mr Rs best interests. I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint.
Financial viability
When advising Mr R on his pension transfer Sesame issued a critical yield rate. The critical 
yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required on the 
transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same retirement 
benefits as the DB scheme. 
Sesame says the critical yield in Mr Rs case was 10.4% although its not entirely clear 
whether this was based on him retiring at the NRA of 60 and whether taking a tax-free lump 
sum, or just a normal annual pension without any lump sum. Nevertheless, this gives me 
some indication of the amount of growth Mr Rs pension would need to grow by outside the 
DB scheme, to make transferring away from it worthwhile.
By of comparison, the advice was given during the period of the industry-wide Pensions 
Review, so the rate the regulator published for Financial Viability Tests (FVTs) are directly 
relevant here. When the advice was given, the regulator's upper limit for an FVT was 10.9% 
per year for 26 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection 
rate at the time was 13%, the middle projection 10.75%, and the lower projection rate 8.5% 
per year. 
Its also important to consider Mr Rs attitude to risk (ATR) and whether he had any capacity 
for loss. Mr R was transferring from a well-known public sector pension which contained a 
number of valuable guarantees. He was a family man of 33 years of age and had two 
dependent children. Whilst he had started another personal pension, this was still very 
modest. Mr R was in the early stages of running a business as a self-employed person. In 
this context, I think his ATR would at best, be balanced, which was broadly in accordance 
with how he was treated by Sesame. In my view, he had a similarly modest capacity for loss.
All these things lead me to say that there was little opportunity for Mr R to improve the 
financial benefits of his future retirement by leaving the DB scheme. I say this because we 
know Mr R was advised to leave a DB pension scheme that was costing him effectively 
nothing to be a member of. So, even if the costs associated with the particular 
recommended personal pension were reasonably low, there was still charges / fees that hed 
need to pay. Looking at the FVT and regulators middle growth assumptions, these were 
very marginally above the critical yield rate of 10.4%. So, what all this was showing at the time is that considering the costs of operating a 
personal pension, Mr R might reasonably expect to get broadly similar financial benefits if he 
transferred away. However, hed lose other benefits and guarantees, which Ill come on to. 
But hed need to exceed the critical yield rate year-on-year, and for many years, just to get 
similar financial benefits. Hed also need to accept risk, something he didnt need to think 
about with his current scheme. And in my view, there would simply be no point in Mr R 
transferring from his DB scheme to achieve returns that were, at best, only similar to those 
he could achieve by remaining where he was - in the DB scheme.
The adviser didnt appear to promote or really explain any financial rationale for transferring. 
However, Ive noted Sesame now says the CETV was low and it represented only a small 
portion of what would eventually become his overall retirement income pot. It implies that 
taking a risk with this small pension was therefore justified. 
But this appears to me to be supposition. There is no evidence that this sort of thinking came 
from either party at the time and I think if Mr R had wanted to take some higher risks, this 
would have been recorded in more detail. In any event, categorising him as a balanced risk 
investor doesnt add any weight to this argument. I also dont think the pension being 
relatively small holds water either. The CETV may have seemed small, but this was in 1993 
prices and DB schemes are calculated differently to personal schemes. So, what needed to 
be considered is the annual pension this DB scheme would promise to pay in the future. 
Theres no evidence this formed part of the advice Mr R received. 
For these financial comparison reasons alone, a transfer away from the DB scheme wasnt 
in Mr Rs best interests or suitable for him. Of course financial viability isnt the only 
consideration when giving transfer advice. There might be other considerations which mean 
a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Other reasons given for the transfer advice
There is only limited information and documents still available to us. However, Sesame says 
Mr Rs file shows that his main focus in seeking out advice in May 1992 was planning for 
your retirement and general financial advice. And I can see the advice he received was over 
a period of several months during 1992, with the eventual pension transfer occurring in 
January 1993. Sesame also refers to documents from the time saying that he had an 
intention to retire early and it implies that because he had left his previous employer, Mr R 
wanted the independence to manage his pension affairs from thereon in.
Early retirement 
Like our investigator, I have found conflicting evidence from the advice sessions, around the 
matter of early retirement. I start from the obvious position that Mr R was only aged 33. With 
a growing family and a relatively new career pathway, itss therefore simply not credible that 
he could have had any concrete early retirement plans. For him, retirement in any capacity 
was around three decades away and if there was indeed a discussion at all about retirement, 
I think the adviser should have been pointing these very obvious facts out to Mr R. 
I also note that various documents from the time refer to a retirement at 60, rather than a 
notion of early retirement. Mr Rs written application form for the new pension even refers to 
the age of 65. So, I think any reference to an early retirement was no more than a stock 
objective used by the adviser to help justify the transferring away from Mr Rs DB scheme. 
Early retirement was not relevant in these circumstances.
Control and independence of the fundsAs for financial independence, theres no evidence that Mr R was an experienced investor. 
Nor is there any evidence he had the desire or capacity to manage this pension going 
forward. I do accept hed started a personal pension of his own which looks like it was linked 
to his self-employment venture. But staying in the DB scheme required no work from Mr R. 
And in my view, if hed ultimately managed to use his own personal pension in the 
forthcoming years to build up an effective money market pension fund, then I think hed 
have been in an agreeable position if hed kept his DB pension exactly where it was. I say 
this because Mr R would have saved in a long-term defined contribution (DC) scheme, which 
was complemented upon retirement by a deferred DB scheme which contained a number of 
benefits and guarantees. 
Death benefits
I cant be sure the extent to which death benefits were discussed at the time, but Sesame 
sent us an information sheet Mr R was given as part of the overall advice session(s). As this 
set out some of the differences in the DB and personal scheme with regards to death 
benefits, I think its fair to say the matter probably came up.
However, in my view, the death benefits on offer through the DB scheme were good. We 
know, for instance, that upon death after his retirement, the spouse benefits provided a 50% 
pension increasing with the retail prices index (RPI). If death occurred before retirement  
and of course, Mr R was still only 33 at the time  there was a spouses pension of 50% 
revalued to the date of death, again with RPI, plus 50% between dependent children. In the 
event of incapacity rather than death, there were other benefits to consider. 
These were, in my view, important benefits because Mr R was married and had children. 
These types of benefits were not generally present outside the scheme and I think they were 
likely underplayed, substantially so, during the course of the advice. I think the adviser 
should have been promoting these to Mr R and explaining how valuable they were to his and 
Mrs Rs situation. I think the adviser failed in their duty in this regard.
Summary
In this decision Ive explained why I dont think the advice to transfer away from Mr Rs DB 
scheme was suitable for him or in his best interests. 
Mr R was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within his current DB 
scheme. From a financial comparison perspective, no real transfer analysis was carried out 
which allowed Mr R to make reasonable comparisons with his existing scheme and the one 
he was being recommended to transfer into. I accept the regulatory requirements were 
different at the time, but the advice still ought to have been clear enough for Mr R to make 
an informed decision. 
In any event, I think there was no indication that Mr R could be better off by leaving the DB 
scheme. His ATR and capacity for loss indicated hed only be likely to ever grow the 
transferred funds to an extent which implied broadly similar financial benefits, at best, to the 
DB scheme he was advised to leave. There was simply no financial case for transferring 
away.  
As for implied flexibility, Ive explained how the notion of early retirement was never 
applicable to Mr Rs situation. He was a young man with a young family and there was no 
credibility in yet saying he planned to retire early when he was still only 33 years of age. 
There were no other reasons to support the advice to leave the DB scheme. Im sure Mr R had some aspirations at the time. But the adviser wasnt there to just transact 
what Mr R thought he wanted. Their responsibility was to their client; to really understand his 
situation and to provide advice that was suitable and in his best interests. I think the 
evidence shows this didnt happen here. So, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was 
suitable. In fact, I think the much stronger case by far was for Mr R to use the DB pension in 
the way it was originally intended. 
I therefore think Sesame should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's DB pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr R, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr R would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme if suitable advice had been given. 
Sesame must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 60, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Rs 
acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Sesame should:
calculate and offer Mr R redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr R before starting the redress calculation that:
- the redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr R receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr R accepts Sesames offer to calculate how much of her redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr R for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of her redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Rs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr R as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Sesame may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments 
to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Rs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and I now direct Sesame Limited to 
pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Sesame Limited pays Mr R the balance. If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award 
becomes binding on Sesame Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman