DRN-2411131
The complaint
Mrs W has complained about Ageas Retail Limiteds (trading as RIAS) service in connection 
with a motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs W had an existing motor insurance policy (policy 1) provided by RIAS for her car (car 1). 
She wanted to add another car to her policy (car 2) so she went online to do so. She entered 
the details for car 2 and agreed to pay a premium to insure it in monthly instalments. She 
couldn't then access the details for car 2 online, so she rang RIAS. It explained to her that 
she hadn't added a car to her existing policy but had set up an entirely new policy (policy 2) 
for car 2. The call handler also told her that she couldn't use the same email address twice 
to access her accounts online. Mrs W asked RIAS to change the email address on the 
account for policy 2 to her husbands email address.
Around three weeks later Mrs Ws husband, who was a named driver on policy 2, was 
stopped by police for driving car 2 while uninsured. Mrs W contacted RIAS) who told her it 
had cancelled policy 2 because she hadn't provided proof of her no claims discount (NCD) 
as it had asked her to.
Mrs W then set up a further policy for  car 2 (policy 3). But as she told RIAS she no longer 
wanted to continue to insure car 1, it said it could change the car on policy 1 (meaning it 
would add car 2 to policy 1) and that she didn't need a new policy (policy 3).
Mrs W complained to RIAS. It acknowledged it had made some mistakes, particularly when 
replying to her concerns. So it offered her £100 in compensation in total for any mistakes 
made by it or the policy underwriter.
Mrs W brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 6 November  2020. 
For ease of reading Ive copied the relevant extract from my provisional findings below. I 
said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so its likely I wont uphold it.
RIAS is an insurance intermediary which means it sells policies and may help with their 
administration but it doesnt provide the cover itself. So any complaint about actions RIAS 
takes on behalf of, or under the delegated authority of, the policy underwriter - which is a 
separate business to RIAS - remains the underwriters responsibility. That's the case even 
where the underwriter itself hasn't been involved in those actions and RIAS has taken them. 
And as Mrs W has also complained about certain actions that RIAS has taken on behalf of 
the underwriter, I've dealt with those under a different reference number. So, I don't intend
to say anything more about them in this provisional decision.
In bringing this complaint Mrs W has made a number of detailed points. And Ive considered 
everything shes said carefully. But in this provisional decision I will focus on what I see as 
being the key outstanding issues following our investigator's assessment of the complaint.
Mrs W clearly thought that, when looking for a quote for car 2, what she was doing was 
adding it to policy 1. But that wasn't right. I understand Mrs W had initially logged into her 
online RIAS account and from there she clicked on Get a quote for an additional car. That 
took her to RIAS online sales process for insuring a new car. And that meant Mrs W had to 
add all of her personal details to run a new quote from scratch.
At the end of that process the system gave Mrs W a quote to insure car 2 starting that day, 
lasting for a full year and requiring a new premium. So it didn't just add car 2 to policy 1 for 
the remainder of its term. And I haven't seen evidence that there was anything within that 
process that indicated that car 2 was being added to policy 1. Neither was there any 
information which showed policy 1 was being amended to incorporate the premium for both 
cars. Policy 2 had a different start and end date to policy 1 and an entirely separate premium 
payment method. I think thats clear that it was a separate policy. And I don't think there was 
anything unfair in the process Mrs W went through to buy the policy 2, even if she didn't 
realise at the outset it was an entirely separate policy.
After Mrs W had bought policy 2 she tried to access the details for car 2 but could only find 
the details for car 1. She rang RIAS. During that call Mrs W confirmed she was keeping both 
cars and didn't want to change the cars on policy 1. RIAS explained shed set up an entirely 
separate policy but said the reason she couldnt access her details online was because she 
couldn't use the same email address for two different online accounts. Mrs W asked RIAS if 
it could change the email address on the account for car 2. She gave her husband's email 
address which RIAS added to it. It told her that anything associated with this policy will be to 
your husbands email address.
Mrs W has since suggested that if RIAS online process had been different or if it had given 
her different advice when she called, she wouldnt have bought policy 2 but would have 
changed the cars on policy 1. But thats not what she said at the time. She told RIAS call 
hander that she did want both cars to be insured. She didn't suggest that she simply wanted 
to change the car on policy 1 and didn't ask about whether that was something she could do. 
So I don't accept that, at that time, she would have done anything else other than insure 
both cars simultaneously. And that required two separate policies.
Mrs W said RIAS has since acknowledged it made a mistake by not telling her initially that 
she couldn't change the cars on the policy. But those events happened some time later than 
when Mrs W initially took out policy 2. In fact that happened after policy 2 had already been 
cancelled and Mrs W had decided she only wanted to insure car 2. So she no longer needed 
to insure car 1. And I haven't seen any evidence Mrs W told RIAS, at the time she bought 
policy 2, that shed only bought car 2 as a temporary measure. In fact as I've said above, 
Mrs W confirmed she was keeping car 1 and that she wasn't trying to change the car on 
policy 1. And, by that time, Mrs W herself had already set up policy 2 without any attempt to 
amend policy 1. So I don't think RIAS did anything wrong in not advising her that she could 
amend the car on policy 1 at that time.
Mrs W also said she only used her husbands email address for the purposes of setting up 
the account for policy 2. Shes implied RIAS was wrong to use that address to send 
information to. But I think it was entirely reasonable for RIAS to send policy information to 
her husbands email address. Mrs W already had one account with RIAS and was aware 
how its online process worked. And she'd given her husbands email address and been told 
that anything associated with the new policy would be sent to that address. So I think it was 
reasonable for RIAS to send correspondence to it.
I've noted RIAS had previously said its call handler had incorrectly told Mrs W she couldn't 
use her own email address for more than one policy. In fact, she could have done so but would have had to use a separate account name. And RIAS has confirmed thats the case. 
RIAS has since realised that the reason Mrs W couldn't see the details of policy 2 online was 
because shed incorrectly typed her email address when applying for it. Thats because 
shed missed a single letter from the middle of her 23 character email address and was 
using the email address as the account name. So RIAS system set the account up using 
Mrs Ws mis-spelled email address. And when she tried to access her account using the 
correctly spelled email address, policy 2 wasn't showing under that account name (because 
of the missing character the account names didn't match). If Mrs W had typed the correct 
email address when applying for policy 2 RIAS system would have told her at that point that 
she couldn't use the same email address as an account name twice. And she would have 
needed to come up with another account name or email address then.
Clearly the call handler didn't spot the missing character from the email address. And I don't 
think thats surprising given that Mrs W clearly hadn't spotted the mistake either when she 
entered it, and it's not immediately obvious. But, in any event, I've listened to the call when 
Mrs W said she couldn't access policy 2 online. And  given that the call handler clearly 
believed that it was the same email address being used twice which was causing the 
problem  he offered a solution which Mrs W was happy with. And it was Mrs W herself that 
suggested using her husbands email address. And RIAS made it clear to her that all 
correspondence concerning the account for policy 2 would be sent to that email address. So 
I don't think it did anything wrong in setting up the account with the details Mrs W gave to it.
Neither Mrs W nor RIAS provided any comment on my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mrs W nor RIAS has objected to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman