DRN-2292612
The complaint
Mr S complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has turned down a storm 
damage claim he made on his home insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2019, following a period of bad weather, Mr S made a claim on his home 
insurance policy. Hed suffered roof damage and internal damage at his home. 
RSA appointed a surveyor to inspect the damage at Mr S home. The surveyor didnt look at 
the internal damage, but he took photos of the roof damage. He didnt think the roof damage 
was down to storm  but was instead caused by nail fatigue.
Based on the surveyors opinion, RSA turned down the claim. It concluded the damage was 
down to wear and tear, which is specifically excluded by the policy terms. And itd checked 
local weather records around the time of Mr S claim and didnt think thered been storm 
conditions. It also added that Mr S didnt have accidental damage cover, so it couldnt 
consider the internal damage under that section of the policy.
Mr S was unhappy with RSAs decision. And he was also unhappy with the service hed had 
from it. RSA accepted it hadnt called Mr S back at points and hed experienced long wait 
times. So it paid him £50 compensation to recognise this. But it maintained that Mr S claim 
wasnt covered. Mr S asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought it was fair for RSA to turn down Mr S claim. He didnt think there 
were storm conditions in Mr S area around the time of the claim. And he thought, in the 
absence of any expert evidence to counter the surveyors findings, it was fair for RSA to rely 
on them.
Mr S disagreed. He said his roof was 80 years old and wasnt likely to be in an immaculate 
condition. And he suggested that his roof couldve experienced storm damage any number 
of times during the period hed been insured with RSA.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think it was fair to RSA to turn down Mr S claim. Ill explain why.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim?
RSA hasnt defined what it means by a storm in its policy. Where an insurer hasnt included 
a definition of what a storm is in its policy wording, wed generally say that a storm involves 
violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow.  So this is what Ive thought about 
when deciding whether there were storm conditions on or around the date of Mr S claim.
Mr S says there were terrible weather conditions on 28 and 29 September 2019. So Ive 
carefully considered local weather reports for a few weeks around that time to see if there 
were prevailing storm conditions. I can see there were periods of rainfall and occasional 
gusts of wind. But there was nothing shortly before the claim to suggest there were violent 
winds, accompanied by rain, hail or snow.
So I turned to look at the weather report for the week the claim was made. I can see that the 
highest wind speed was 32 mph. While these might be reasonably strong winds, I dont think 
theyre high enough to be considered as storm conditions.
The highest recorded rainfall over a 24-hour period on 29 September 2019 was 24mm. I 
accept this is heavy rainfall.  But it doesnt look like storm force winds accompanied it. And 
without strong winds, Im not persuaded that the rainfall was of sufficient intensity to be 
considered as a storm. Or that rainfall on its own would be capable of damaging a well-
maintained roof.
Having considered the evidence, I dont think there were storm conditions on or around the 
date of the claim. This means the answer to the first question is no. 
I appreciate Mr S feels that the damage couldve happened during any storm while hes 
been insured with RSA. Mr S policy is intended to cover a one-off event of storm which has 
caused damage which can be attributed to that storm. In this case, because there werent 
prevailing storm conditions when Mr S noticed the internal and external damage, I think its 
fair for RSA to conclude the damage wasnt down to a one-of event of storm. And as Mr S 
doesnt have accidental damage cover on his policy, RSA cant consider his internal or 
external damage claim under this section either.
As there werent storm conditions at the time of the claim, I dont strictly need to consider the 
other questions. For completeness though, I would add that based on the surveyors expert 
findings, it seems the roof damage was caused by the corrosion of nails in the roof, rather 
than storm. While Mr S was unhappy with the surveyors findings, he hasnt provided any 
expert evidence which would counter them. And Ive noted in his complaint to us that Mr S 
said his own roofer told him the roof was in a really bad way and it would need replacing. 
He also mentioned that his roofer had said there was a lot of rotten wood. Hes told us the 
roof was also 80 years old. It seems likely that the issues were more likely to be down to 
general wear and tear. General roof maintenance simply isnt covered by the policy terms. 
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr S position, given the impact he said the damage has had 
on his health, I think it was fair for RSA to turn down Mr S claim. So I dont think RSA needs 
to pay anything more.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman