DRN-4158800
The complaint
Mr N complains about the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct when he lost 
money to a scam.
Mr N is being represented by a claims management company but for ease of reading Ill only 
refer to Mr N in the decision. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In 2020 Mr N was referred by a work colleague to a merchant who traded in cryptocurrency. 
Various conversations took place over a number of months with Mr N making some 
payments to the merchant via another bank account he held in his name. 
In September 2020 Mr N opened an account with a genuine cryptocurrency exchange and 
payments of £2 and £23 were made from his First Direct account. On 1 October 2020 Mr N 
sent two payments on the same day to the genuine cryptocurrency exchange for £7,500 and 
£6,500 respectively. 
After seeing his profit with the merchant increase Mr N tried to make a withdrawal but was 
asked to pay tax upfront. After various conversations with the scammer, Mr N realised that 
he had been scammed. So, he made a complaint to First Direct. First Direct considered the 
complaint but decided not to issue a refund to Mr N. As a result, Mr N brought his complaint 
to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the payments 
were unusual as Mr N had previously sent similar sized payments on the same day on his 
account in the past. So, he didnt think First Direct had treated Mr N unfairly. 
Mr N disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said the payments he made 
towards the scam were unusual for his account because they were made in quick 
succession to a cryptocurrency exchange, and he has little experience of investing. So, 
First Direct shouldve flagged the payments which wouldve more than likely uncovered the 
scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr N has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
It is common ground that Mr N authorised the scam payments of around £14,000. I accept 
that these were authorised payments even though Mr N was the victim of a scam. So, 
although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr N is presumed liable for the loss 
in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for First Direct to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a 
payment in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
First Directs first obligation is to follow the instructions that Mr N provides. But if those 
instructions are sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect First Direct 
to intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before 
processing it. Id also expect First Direct to provide suitable warnings about common scams 
to help their customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the 
payment. There might also be cases where its appropriate for First Direct to refuse to follow 
the instruction if there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of fraud or a 
scam. 
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Mr N to First Direct were 
unusual in relation to his typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account statements 
for the twelve months prior to the scam payments, which I consider gives a good sample 
size to assess what was typical activity for the account. The account was typically well 
managed and maintained a credit balance. I note Mr N had made two payments on the 
same day of £10,000 and £8,000 in October 2019 and then again in the same month for 
£9,999 and £10,000. 
I appreciate Mr N has said these payments to the scammer were sent to a high-risk 
cryptocurrency exchange which shouldve have raised a concern for First Direct. But that 
alone isnt sufficient for me to consider these to be unusual payments  account usage can 
change over time. And the payments he made towards the scam were similar in size to the 
payments he made previously. 
As a result, I dont think the payments were so unusual or out of character that its 
reasonable to have expected First Direct to have intervened at the time. 
Ive considered whether First Direct acted reasonably when it was made aware of the scam. 
First Direct said to this service that it contacted Coinbase who confirmed no funds remained 
which isnt unusual because Mr N confirmed his funds were forwarded to the scammers. So, 
First Direct wasnt able to recover any of his funds. 
In these circumstances I cant conclude the outstanding loss is the fault of First Direct. To 
be clear, Im not blaming Mr N for the loss  its ultimately the scammer who is to blame. 
But for the reasons ive explained above, I dont think hes been treated unfairly by First 
Direct. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman