DRN-3880674
The complaint
H, a limited company, complains that Allica Bank Ltd unfairly invested its funds in a lower 
rate business savings account.
What happened
In June last year, Allica wrote to H advising that its funds were due to mature and that it 
needed to instruct the bank on what to do with the funds after maturity. Hs funds were due 
to mature on 16 June, at which point Allica reinvested the funds into its 12-month fixed term 
issue 10 account  with a 1.8% rate.
A few days before the maturity date, a base rate change took place, at which point Allica 
says it launched a new issue 11 account with a 2% rate. H complained that Allica didnt 
invest the funds in the higher rate account. 
In its response, Allica said that H applied for the issue 10 account ahead of the maturity date 
and the bank simply acted on Hs instruction. Allica explained that H couldve reinvested the 
funds into the higher rate account, but H wouldve had to have provided a new instruction to 
Allica before the maturity date. 
H was unhappy with this response and asked this service to review the matter. H wants 
Allica to adjust the rate being applied to 2% or reimburse H for the difference in earnings it 
couldve gained. 
Our investigator concluded that the bank acted fairly. The investigator pointed to Allicas 
records that show H requested that the funds be reinvested into the issue 10 account and 
that H reviewed and agreed to the relevant terms. H didnt agree  it says Allica didnt 
present it with any documentation and that the bank shouldve automatically reinvested the 
funds under the more favourable rate. H adds that it was not informed that it would need to 
give Allica a new instruction ahead of the maturity date and that it expected Allica to reinvest 
the funds under the higher rate, rather that the issue 10 account that the bank no longer 
provided.
Because H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Allica has acted fairly  Ill explain why.
As our investigator pointed out, Allica has sent over its records demonstrating that H logged 
into the banks system and agreed to the relevant terms related to investing the funds into 
the issue 10 account. H says it wasnt presented with any documentation. Allica has 
provided an example of what H wouldve seen on one of the screens  this page has the 
heading fixed term deposits application and includes documents that H was prompted to 
read. The documents listed are a product summary, terms and conditions, an FSCS 
information sheet and exclusion list and the privacy policy. The copy of the product summary 
Allica sent to us refers to the issue 10 account and the 1.8% rate. 
H was prompted to tick a box to confirm it had read, understood and accepted the terms in 
these documents before selecting accept and continue to move forward. The records Allica 
has sent show that H electronically accepted these terms and selected to reinvest the funds 
into the issue 10 account. Allica also says the log in ID used to carry out this instruction 
corresponds with Hs director. So Im satisfied that H applied to reinvest the funds into the 
issue 10 account. 
H is unhappy that Allica didnt automatically reinvest the funds into the issue 11 higher rate 
account. H is concerned that by the time the funds matured, Allica stopped providing the 
issue 10 account. So H thinks the funds shouldnt have been invested into that account at 
all. Allica says it simply followed Hs instruction and pointed out that H couldve provided a 
new instruction ahead of the maturity date  I havent seen anything that suggests H couldnt 
have done so. 
H says it logged onto its online account on 14 June, after the base rate changed. H says it 
believed Allica would automatically apply the 2% rate. However. I havent seen anything to 
suggest this wouldve been the case. I think it was reasonable for Allica to act on Hs 
instruction. I appreciate the base rate changed and H couldve received a more favourable 
rate, but Im not of the view that Allica is expected to apply this change automatically, nor 
would I have expected it to notify H that it could take advantage of the new rate before the 
funds matured. 
Theres also nothing in the banks terms that suggest Allica wouldve had to carry out these 
actions. And although Allica stopped offering the issue 10 account after the base rate had 
changed, I dont find that the bank acted unfairly - given that H applied for the funds to be 
reinvested in that way before the change took place. 
H recently told us that Allica reinvested the funds early instead of waiting until the maturity 
date. I havent seen any records to suggest this was the case. Ive seen a copy of an email 
Allica sent to H on 16 June confirming Hs funds had been reinvested, but theres nothing in 
there that says this was done earlier. H also claims that Allica pressured H into deciding 
what would happen to the funds. But I can see from the relevant email that was sent to H on 
2 June that Allica provided a deadline of 15 June  a day before maturity. So I dont agree 
that Allica pressured H to make a decision sooner.
In summary, from what Ive seen it seems H took steps ahead of maturity to instruct Allica to 
reinvest the funds into the issue 10 account. I appreciate that H wanted to take advantage of 
the higher rate, but I cant fairly conclude that Allica did something wrong, as it acted on Hs 
instruction. So I wont be asking Allica to apply the 2% rate or reimburse H the difference in 
earnings.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman