DRN-4201986
The complaint
Mr H complains that Vitality Health Limited did not progress his private medical insurance 
claims. 
What happened
Mr H held private medical insurance cover with Vitality. In November, Mr H sent Vitality two 
referral letters from his GP. When he didnt receive a response from Vitality, he cancelled the 
policy. He complained to Vitality about the matter.
Vitality apologised for not contacting Mr H after it had received the referral letters. Vitality 
offered him £100 compensation for this. Unhappy with this, Mr H brought a complaint to this 
Service. He wanted Vitality to refund him the premiums paid and pay him £5,000 
compensation.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Vitality had caused 
Mr H unnecessary worry, and recommended Vitality increase the compensation to £200. 
Vitality accepted our investigators recommendations, but Mr H did not. The matter has 
therefore been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Vitality was at fault here. It received the referral letters and then 
logged the claims on 7 November. As Mr H held a moratorium policy, Vitality wanted more 
information about both claims before it could agree to cover any treatment. However, it failed 
to ask Mr H to provide it with the further information that it needed. 
Mr H did not contact Vitality again about the matter, and decided to cancel his policy on 
16 November. I understand his GP had made an urgent referral under the NHS, and so he 
went ahead with his treatment on the NHS. That of course was up to him, though if he had 
wanted private treatment, I think he could have called Vitality to find out what was happening 
with his claims. Though given the urgency of the matter, and that Vitality would have needed 
more information before approving the claims, it may be that Mr H would have decided to 
continue with his treatment on the NHS in any event. 
Vitality offered Mr H £100 compensation initially, but agreed to increase this to £200 after our 
investigator asked it to do so. I think this level of compensation is reasonable in the 
circumstances, and reflects the inconvenience that Mr H was caused by the matter. 
Although Mr H wants Vitality to refund his premiums, I dont require it to do so. Whilst Vitality 
did make an error, Mr H didnt give Vitality the opportunity to put matters right before he 
cancelled his cover. Vitality was on risk to pay a valid claim, and so it would not be 
reasonable me for to require Vitality to refund Mr Hs premiums.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr H 
£200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman