DRN-1676565
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) handled and settled a 
claim he made for a new kitchen appliance.
What happened
Mr H took out a breakdown protection policy with D&G on his kitchen hob and cooker on 16 
April 2019. His hob was a separate unit to his cooker. And his policy with D&G covered both 
appliances for breakdown and accidental damage.
On 4 May 219 Mr H contacted D&G in order to report a fault with his hob as one of the hob 
burners wouldnt ignite. It appointed an engineer to visit his property and diagnose the fault. 
Mr H said there were delays in his claim being progressed and a total of three engineers 
ended up attending his home in order to inspect his hob.
The engineers that attended provided the details of Mr Hs broken hob to D&G and 
attempted to repair it. But they werent able to do so. And, on 4 June 2019, D&G wrote off Mr 
Hs hob as one of the parts required to fix it was obsolete. 
D&G agreed to replace Mr Hs broken hob. But it informed him that the only like for like 
replacement it could offer was a range cooker. Two days later it sent him a weblink with 
details of the replacement model it intended to offer. 
On 10 June 2019 Mr H contacted D&G to order the range cooker it had offered. It confirmed 
the model number it intended to supply and advised Mr H of the appliances dimensions. 
During this telephone call D&G confirmed Mr H wouldnt incur a charge for the replacement 
appliance. He confirmed he wished D&G to supply the model it had offered and a delivery 
date was arranged for 14 June 2019.
When Mr Hs range cooker was delivered, he realised it was 30cm wider than his previous 
cooker. Mr H was in the process of having his kitchen refitted at the time and had to make 
adjustments to his kitchen to install and make his new appliance fit. He said his kitchen fitter 
advised that hed have to purchase a new cooker hood for health and safety reasons as the 
existing model was too small for the new cooker. As Mr H was out of pocket, he complained 
to D&G and asked it to cover the cost of the new cooker hood.
When D&G responded to Mr Hs complaint it didnt uphold it. It declined to cover the cost of 
Mr Hs new cooker hood as it said it had provided him with the dimensions of the range 
cooker it had offered. So, he should have realised the replacement appliance was too large 
prior to ordering it and it felt he should have requested an alternative model. D&G also said 
Mr H could have rejected the appliance on delivery and, because it had been installed and 
used, it wasnt able to provide an alternative model. However, it recognised Mr H had 
experienced delays in how his claim had been progressed and paid him £60 compensation 
for the trouble and upset this had caused.
Being dissatisfied with how D&G proposed to resolve his complaint, Mr H referred it to our 
service. Our investigator empathised with him and recommended upholding his complaint. 
They were persuaded that D&G should pay £200 towards the cost of the cooker hood Mr H 
had purchased, which it agreed to do. But Mr H disagreed with our investigators view of his 
complaint. He wanted D&G to reimburse him the full cost of his cooker hood and pay him 
compensation to reflect that hed been out of pocket for some time and had to bring a 
complaint to our service. He therefore asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mr H and D&G, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think D&G made a mistake, or treated Mr H unfairly, in how it 
decided to resolve his claim. And, having thought carefully about everything he and D&G 
have said, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator. I appreciate Mr H will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
An insurance policy is intended to put a consumer back in the position they were in prior to 
their loss occurring or as close as is possible. An insurer isnt under an obligation to supply 
an item where that would put a customer in a better position than if the loss hadnt occurred. 
But it shouldnt put them in a worse position either. 
The terms of Mr Hs policy require D&G to supply a replacement of a similar make, model 
and specification to the original. 
Mr H has argued that D&G provided him with a replacement appliance that was dissimilar in 
size and design  it being a range cooker instead of a hob, which is what he wanted to 
replace. 
Ive had sight of the photographs he provided our investigator, which show how his kitchen 
was set up prior to his replacement oven being installed. Ive also considered the comments 
made by Mr H and D&G in order to reach a decision thats fair to both parties.
Like our investigator, I agree that Mr H received a substantially different appliance to the 
model it was intended to replace. It was significantly wider and was a standalone range 
cover. 
I think it was reasonable for D&G to offer Mr H a range cooker instead of a separate hob in 
circumstances where it couldnt replace the hob. But it should have provided an appliance 
that was the correct dimensions. And the model delivered to Mr H was too wide.
The sizing error appears to have been caused by D&G making an adjustment to Mr Hs 
policy on 30 May 2019. On this date I understand that it incorrectly recorded Mr Hs insured 
appliance as a standalone range cover, which was 30cm wider than the model he owned.  
I think the error was also compounded by the engineers who D&G appointed to attend Mr 
Hs home to inspect the broken appliance. Three engineers attended Mr Hs property and I think it was their responsibility to check theyd correctly recorded the specifications, model 
details and dimensions of the broken appliance. D&G initially told our investigator it wasnt 
responsible for any errors made by its engineers. But, as these individuals were appointed 
by D&G, its reasonable to hold it responsible for any mistakes its agents made. 
Its clear that the errors D&G made led to Mr H being inconvenienced as he had to make 
adjustments to his kitchen to install his new larger appliance. But I also think he made a 
mistake when he ordered his replacement appliance. I say this because he had a 
responsibility to ensure the replacement model he was offered by D&G was suitable to his 
requirements. And I think that included ensuring the dimensions were correct prior to asking 
D&G to place his order. He had the opportunity of checking the size of the replacement 
appliance as he didnt ask D&G to order it until four days after it was offered to him.
I acknowledge that Mr H informed D&G he wanted a replacement hob and queried why it 
was intending to provide a range cooker instead. But, as he was receiving a significantly 
different appliance, I think he ought to have taken care to check the size of the replacement 
model to ensure it would fit in his kitchen. It follows that I think there was fault on both sides. 
Im satisfied that, in settling Mr Hs claim, D&G provided him with a superior cooking 
appliance in terms of both value and quality. His hob needed to be replaced but he was 
given a range cooker, which meant he ended up receiving a new oven and better appliance 
overall. So, theres evidence of betterment here and I therefore cant fairly conclude that 
D&G made an error in how it dealt with Mr Hs claim for a replacement hob.
Ill turn now to Mr Hs request that D&G reimburse him for the cost he incurred in purchasing 
a new cooker hood. I can see its agreed with our investigators recommendation that it pay 
£200 towards that expense. Ive seen evidence that Mr H spent just under £310 in 
purchasing a new cooker hood. D&G has also provided evidence that it would have been 
able to source a replacement cooker hood, on a like for like basis to the original model, for 
just under £100.
D&G lost its opportunity to limit the amount it was prepared to spend on Mr Hs replacement 
cooker hood. But thats not Mr Hs fault. I say this because if it had agreed to cover his 
cooker hood claim it would have been able to offer the £100 model it says it would have 
sourced.
I recognise that Mr H was inconvenienced by D&Gs decision to decline his clam for a 
replacement cooker hood. But in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I think D&Gs 
repudiation decision resulted in him purchasing a cooker hood that was better than the one it 
replaced. I say this because he purchased a medium range model when cheaper like for like 
alternative were available. I therefore think our investigators recommendation that D&G 
settle Mr Hs cooker hood claim for £200 is fair.  
Mr H asked our investigator to tell D&G to pay additional compensation because he wasnt 
able to buy the cooker hood he wanted. But Im satisfied he made an informed choice when 
he purchased his replacement cooker hood. The model he bought appears to be suitable to 
his requirements  its already been installed and is working without any issues. And as Ive 
already explained, he purchased an upgraded model. As theres evidence of betterment m 
not persuaded D&G needs to do anymore under the terms of Mr Hs policy.
Ill turn now to Mr Hs request that D&G pay additional compensation to resolve this 
complaint. I can see it paid him £60 compensation to recognise that the delays he 
experienced in the progression of his claim. I appreciate that, at that time, this offer only covered a delay in his replacement cooker 
appliance being delivered. But, while Mr H may disagree with me, Im satisfied the 
compensation D&G has already paid is a fair amount that recognises the distress and 
inconvenience he would have experienced overall. Its in line with awards made by our 
service and its what I would have told D&G to pay and hes already received upgraded 
appliances. So, I wont be requiring D&G to increase the amount its already paid.
 
Putting things right
For the above reasons I think the fairest way for D&G to resolve this complaint would be for 
it to pay £200 towards the cost Mr H incurred in replacing his cooker hood. Im not 
persuaded it should do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Domestic and General Insurance Plc should 
pay Mr H £200 towards the cost of replacing his cooker hood in order to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman