DRN-3393727
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of some solar panels.
Mr L is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr L bought solar panels for his home in July 2018. The purchase was funded by a loan 
from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer 
under the relevant legislation. Mr L says the installer misled him into believing that the 
panels would be self-funding, which they werent. He also says that he was misled about the 
total price, in that the interest on the loan meant that he had to pay more than the cash price.
Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the sales 
documentation had made it clear to Mr L that the benefits of the panels would not be enough 
to cover his loan payments. The CMC did not agree, and so the case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I am currently not minded to uphold this 
complaint. That is because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and 
the estimated benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach 
the cost.
In this case there are actually two contract documents, showing different quotes for the 
financial returns from the panels based on different estimates of how well the panels were 
likely to perform. I will therefore consider both documents.
In each of them, immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital 
letters Estimated total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right are two figures 
indicating the bottom and top of a range of potential benefits. In one quote, the highest figure 
is £474.48, and in the other it is £509.33. I think these figures are conspicuous; they are not 
buried in some fine print. To the left of them it says that the finance amount is £6,495, 
payable over ten years (120 months). This document was signed by Mr L immediately below 
those figures, and so I think that the installers salesman did enough to bring this information 
to his attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr L could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come 
to £649.50 each year. That is significantly more than the highest stated benefit figure for the 
first year, in both quotes. Again, I think this is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr L about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan.
Im also satisfied that the credit agreement provided to Mr L makes it clear that the overall 
cost of the system is £9,331.48. This sets out a clear breakdown of the cash price, the 
amount of credit provided, the total charge for credit and the total amount repayable.
So Im satisfied that the credit agreement made it clear that it would cost Mr L more than the 
cash price as he had decided to pay for the panels with an interest-bearing loan.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
