The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way MCE Insurance Limited (MCE) has handled his motorcycle 
insurance claim in relation to a courtesy bike, legal assistance and the insurance premium 
for the remainder of the year.  
What happened
Mr G purchased a motorcycle insurance policy on 11 April 2019. On 2 May 2019, he 
reported a collision with a cyclist and made a claim on his insurance. 
Mr G told us that hed contact MCE on 9, 16 and 20 May 2019 to request the use of a 
courtesy bike, which he was entitled to under his policy. MCE said it had explained on 9 May 
that Mr Gs bike would need to be declared a total loss before he was entitled to the use of a 
courtesy bike. It said it was deemed a total loss on 15 May. 
In a call on 16 May, MCE told Mr G it could deliver a courtesy bike on weekdays between 
8am and 2pm. But Mr G said that because of his job, he wouldn't be available for delivery 
then and asked that they deliver the courtesy bike to his wife. He said she could provide 
necessary identification and sign the relevant documentation on his behalf. But MCE said 
that Mr G had to take the delivery. So Mr G said that hed leave it for the time being and 
MCE asked him to call back if he changed his mind. But when he later tried to arrange for 
delivery, he was told that he wasn't entitled to a courtesy bike any longer as MCE had 
offered to settle the claim.
Mr G noted in an email to the business that delivery to his wife had been allowed previously. 
He also said MCE was required to provide a courtesy bike within 48 hours of the claim being 
made, according to the policy document. And he felt that, as he was entitled to use of the 
bike for five days, the team responsible for arranging the delivery of the bike should be 
available all week to facilitate this. 
Because Mr G said the incident wasn't his fault, he wanted to utilise the legal expenses 
cover he had included in his policy. He wanted to recover the excess for his claim of £1,525 
as well as the insurance premiums hed paid for the remainder of the year.
MCE said it instructed its solicitors to contact Mr G to discuss the claim - but Mr G wasn't 
satisfied with their terms, so this didn't go any further. Mr G noted that he had legal 
expenses cover for the cost of recovering losses that might not be covered by his motor 
policy. But he said he wasn't given the benefit of this cover and was, instead, offered a no 
win, no fee contract with the solicitor who would take a success fee of 35%.
Mr G didnt think it was fair that he was required to pay the full years premium for the 
insurance policy when he'd only had use of it for a few weeks. MCE explained that it was 
standard practice within the motor industry that, where a claim is successful, the remainder 
DRN-1269476of the premiums for the full year are payable. It said this is because the insurer is deemed to 
have executed the annual contract in full by settling the full market value of the vehicle. 
So MCE didn't uphold Mr Gs complaint. But it said there was a delay in instructing its 
solicitors to contact Mr G. And it recognised that it wasn't initially made clear to Mr G that its 
solicitors would assist on a no win, no fee basis and that he would be charged a success 
fee. So it issued payments totalling £150 to acknowledge this. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. She recognised that there were errors which led 
to a payment of £150 being made. But she didn't think MCE needed to do anything further. 
Mr G disagreed. He felt there was more that shouldve been done in relation to the courtesy 
bike and legal expenses cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, I dont uphold this complaint  Ill 
explain why.
Courtesy bike
Ive considered the relevant section of the terms and conditions of the policy. Under the 
section relating to courtesy bike cover, it says:
Cover under this policy feature is effective only in connection with a valid claim made 
under your policy subject to all of the terms, conditions and exclusions detailed in this 
policy booklet and in your policy schedule. When we have accepted a claim under 
your policy this policy feature will provide you with cover in the event of a fault or not at 
fault accident only claim, where your motorcycle is declared a total loss by us.
We will provide you with a motorcycle up to a maximum of 125cc for up to 5 days, 
within 48 hours of the claim being confirmed, subject to availability.
I think its clear from this that the courtesy bike will only be provided once the vehicle is 
declared a total loss. And this seems to be what Mr G was correctly told on 9 May 2019.
I note that Mr G tried to arrange for a courtesy bike on 16 May- and Ive been given a copy of 
the telephone conversation that took place. In this call, MCE explains that courtesy bikes will 
be delivered on weekdays between 8am and 2pm. Mr G explained that this didn't work for 
him because of his job but asked if his wife could receive it on his behalf. MCE explained 
that Mr G needed to be there to receive the bike as hed need to sign a statement confirming 
that he understood and agreed hed be responsible for the vehicle and any driving offences 
committed on the vehicle whilst in his care. But Mr G said that he couldn't take time off work 
and would leave it for now. He was told to call if he changed his mind.
I can see that Mr G emailed to follow up after this phone call on 16 and 20 May in relation to 
the courtesy bike. But in both emails, he still referenced that his wife would take the delivery 
of the vehicle. I think MCE had made it clear that this wasn't sufficient and that it needed to 
make the delivery to him directly. Its not for me to interfere with MCE's processes and 
procedures, so I dont think it would be fair for me to expect it to have allowed someone 
other than the policyholder to receive the bike  even if this is something its allowed in the 
past. Its also not for me to suggest that it deliver vehicles seven days a week. But I feel it might be worth mentioning here that I dont think its operating hours seem particularly 
unusual or restrictive.
I note that Mr G had asked for a courtesy bike after his own had been declared a total loss, 
as allowed by the policy. But MCE said that because his claim had been settled, the bike 
was no longer available. At this point, not only had the claim been confirmed (another 
requirement of the policy, as outlined above) but MCE had agreed to settle the claim. So it 
could be said here that its liability with Mr G had ended. But it still stands that there was no 
suggestion Mr G was going to be available to take delivery of the bike, as was required.
Taking everything into consideration, I havent seen anything which would suggest that Mr G 
had arranged to be available to receive the bike around this period (and he doesn't appear to 
have called back as instructed if he had). So I dont think it would be fair to say that he lost 
out as a result of anything MCE did. It was more that his circumstances prevented him from 
having a courtesy bike. I dont think it would be fair to say that MCE failed to fulfil its contract 
to him. 
Legal Expenses Cover 
I note that Mr G wished to pursue the cyclist involved in the accident for the excess and for 
the insurance premiums for the remainder of the year. Personal injury and the cost of hiring 
a bike for five days have also been referenced. These latter points dont appear to have 
been put to the business but would be addressed similarly to the excess and insurance 
premiums. 
MCE told us that it contacted its solicitor in relation to this case. The solicitor explained to it 
that pedal cyclists aren't required to have insurance for third party risk and, in its experience, 
claims against them often fail. It said this is because payments cant be enforced and it 
therefore couldn't say that Mr Gs claim had better than a 50% prospect of loss recovery 
being made. 
While Mr G has provided further thought around this, Ive thought about what MCE can fairly 
be expected to do here. I think MCE was entitled to rely on the advice it was given from its 
legal expert. Given that the policy term expressly states cover wouldn't be provided where 
there is not a reasonable prospect of recovery I dont think it acted unreasonably in 
declining cover for legal expenses. I havent seen evidence to suggest there wouldve been 
a sufficient prospect of success. It appears that the solicitor was willing to take on the case 
outside of the policy on a no win, no fee basis, but this falls outside of the complaint against 
MCE. So I dont think MCE has acted unfairly in relation to the legal expense cover.
Premiums payable
It appears that this aspect of the complaint may have been accepted by Mr G earlier. But Ill 
address it for completeness. Mr G noted that hed only held the policy for a few weeks before 
needing to make a claim. For this reason, he felt that the premiums hed paid for the 
remainder of the year should be refunded. MCE explained that, where a claim is successful, 
the remainder of the premiums for the full year remain payable. It said this is because the 
insurer is deemed to have executed the annual contract in full by settling the full market 
value of the vehicle. This is standard within the industry and I wouldn't expect it to refund any 
of the premiums for the reasons its already given.
In summary, based on all the evidence, I dont think MCE has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in relation to the points raised. I note that it felt it necessary to issue a payment of £150 to Mr 
G but, as hes pointed out, this matter wasn't brought to us as part of the complaint, so I 
havent considered it. So I wont be asking MCE to take any further action here. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July 2020.
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman