DRN-3210581
The complaint
Miss B complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl and Cie SCA, wont refund payments that she 
didnt make from her account.
What happened
Miss B disputes six payments made to a gambling website on 23 May 2020 using PayPal. 
These totalled £550. She says that her account was hacked, and she didnt make these 
payments.
PayPal said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that it hadnt found any evidence of 
unauthorised account access.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He set out the details of the 
payments which started at 19:08 with the last one at 19:13. Miss B said that she was at 
home and received a text from PayPal about one of the payments for £100. She logged onto 
her account, changed the password, and reported the fraud. She said that the betting 
company involved had no record of an account in her name.
Our investigator said that PayPal had told this service that one of the main reasons it didnt 
make a refund was because these were gambling payments. And Miss B had made 
payments to different gambling companies before. He also looked at evidence about the IP 
addresses that Miss B had used for genuine log ins to her account. There was a similarity 
between the one used for these disputed payments and to ones used before. He also 
couldnt see how an unknown third party had been able to discover her log in details. And 
there was no evidence of any other details about her account being altered.
Miss B didnt agree. She said that she didnt authorise these payments. She said that she 
had disabled a one button authorisation on her account now. But that this had been done too 
late to stop these payments.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2021. I set out below what I said.
I said I needed to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering 
this complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, 
its not enough for it to be authenticated, say with personal security information. And if they 
werent authorised Miss B wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I said Id be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the security information 
necessary to make these payments?
- Did Miss B either authorise the payments on the account, or allow someone else to use 
her account to do so?
I asked our investigator to contact PayPal to request more information about the 
authorisation of these payments. I took into account what it has provided below and consider 
it has now had a reasonable opportunity to support its case.
The position remains that there is relatively limited information about these payments. 
PayPal hasnt provided more than the electronic record of the payments coming from the 
merchant. And although Miss B says she has contacted the merchant I dont have anything 
to support what she says it told her. Having said that it isnt in dispute that the payments 
came through Miss Bs PayPal account and I worked on the basis that these were 
authenticated.
The issue is whether Miss B consented to them. I noted from the information available that 
the log in relating to these payments took place at 19:08 that day. And the payments 
followed very quickly. PayPal says that Miss B submitted a claim straight away after she had 
received a text. She logged into her account from a different (and frequently used) IP 
location with a device that it recognised. The password was changed at 19:32. And no other 
attempts were made to make payments.
PayPal says that the IP address used for the payments is one relating to a (mobile) service 
provider and it seems a broad geographical location where Miss B has accessed her 
account before. But my understanding was that the location may be a considerable distance 
from Miss Bs home address, and Id seen nothing to the contrary. So, I didnt think it has 
been established that she could have personally accessed her account from that other 
location and also logged in within this timescale at home. PayPal doesnt have details of the 
device used when the payments were made and doesnt appear to have asked the merchant 
for this. But it also seems to be accepted that Miss B was made aware of a text and 
immediately responded to this. That makes it less likely her own phone was being used for 
the payments based on the location information. PayPal has also said that the merchant 
involved doesnt have skip login at check out. I took that to mean that even if Miss B had 
one button authorisation set up on her device this wouldnt have worked here. It hasnt 
provided evidence of that.
Id looked at the details provided about the previous gambling payments made using       
Miss Bs account. These were £20 on 4 April 2019, £10 on 3 February 2020 and £10 on 2 
April 2020. The latter two payments were to the same company. 
Based on what PayPal has provided the inference it seems it wanted me to draw is that     
Miss B gave someone else her log in details and these were used on a new device. But as 
soon as payments were made these were reported as fraudulent. I had no information about 
whether those payments resulted in any benefit for anyone apart from the ability to gamble. 
Once Miss B had contacted PayPal and changed her password payments stopped. But I 
wasnt clear whether the account was suspended or couldnt be used as Id not seen any 
payment logs or information from the merchant. The alternative explanation and Miss Bs 
position is that someone discovered her PayPal password and knew her email. Id not seen 
anything to show that the extent of what was used was any more than that. And I thought 
that the compromise of a password used online is plausible. I appreciated that the payments 
disputed were limited to gambling ones. 
I said I wouldnt be able to say exactly what happened and I was thinking about what is most 
likely. I considered that too much weight has been placed on the type of payments here by 
PayPal. And on Miss Bs past (and limited) gambling activity. And that this has meant that 
insufficient evidence has been provided by PayPal about the authorisation of those payments including information from the merchant involved. I also didnt find the evidence 
about the IP addresses assisted in showing that these were genuine payments. On balance I 
wasnt persuaded that these payments were consented to and so authorised by Miss B. And 
so, she shouldnt be held responsible for them by PayPal.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PayPal said that it didnt agree with my decision. It maintained that it had provided 
compelling evidence to support its position. And that the correct position had been used and 
it had acted in accordance with its User Agreement.
Miss B didnt make any further comments.
I have already considered the evidence provided by PayPal. And I set out in my provisional 
decision how Id assessed that and what additional evidence might have been of use. Ive 
not had any specific comments on what I said or any new evidence. And so, I dont see a 
reason now to depart from my provisional findings.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require PayPal (Europe) Sarl and Cie SCA 
to refund Miss B with £550.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 January 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman