DRN-2506108
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has introduced an annual £120 
fee for granting Consent to Let (CTL) on his mortgaged property. Mr S says he paid a one-
off fee of £100 in 2014 and believes he is being treated unfairly by RBS.
What happened
Mr S has a mortgage with RBS which he took out in 2010. In 2014 he decided to rent out the 
property and asked RBS for CTL. At the time RBS charged an administrative fee of £100 to 
deal with the application, which Mr S paid.
In 2020 Mr S was unhappy to learn that RBS had now decided to introduce an annual £120 
CTL fee. Mr S doesnt think RBS is entitled to charge this, as he paid the £100 fee in 2014 
and there was no mention at the time of any revision to this one-off charge.
In its final response letter, RBS explained that it was entitled to introduce an annual charge 
and that this was in line with standard industry practice. However, RBS said that, as Mr Ss 
two-year fixed-rate mortgage produce expired in October 2021, RBS would waive the CTL 
fee for 2020 and 2021, so that Mr S could review his options and, if he wanted to, move to 
another lender at the end of the fixed-rate period.
Dissatisfied with RBSs response, Mr S brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, where an investigator looked at it. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator explained that RBSs tariff of charges explained that the costs and fees 
applied to the mortgage could be amended from time to time and so she was satisfied that 
RBS was entitled to introduce the annual fee for CTL.
The investigator also clarified that RBS had offered to waive the fee for 2020 and 2021, and 
that after his fixed rate expired in October 2021, Mr S would be free to move his mortgage to 
another lender, if he wanted to do so. The investigator thought this was fair.
Mr S disagreed. He said the terms and conditions of RBSs consent to let were included in 
its letter sent in 2014. This made no mention of any additional future charge nor any 
mechanism by which the terms could be unilaterally varied by the bank. The letter also made 
no mention of any tariff of charges. Mr S says consent was granted for the term of the 
mortgage and to say otherwise is prejudicial and unfair to him.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, and so I will now make a final 
decision on this matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can tell from what hes told us that Mr S feels a strong sense of grievance about RBSs 
decision to introduce the £120 charge. He argues that there is no basis on which the bank 
can unilaterally introduce a charge.
Ive looked at the mortgage terms and conditions which apply to this mortgage and which 
Mr S would have received at the time he took out the mortgage in 2010, and I disagree. The 
terms and conditions say:
31. COSTS FEES AND EXPENSES
31.1 The Borrower hereby covenants with the Lender to pay on demand all costs, 
charges and expenses (including legal and other professional fees, administration 
costs and overhead expenses) in connection with the Mortgage including (but not 
limited to) 

31.1.5 any application for any form of consent of the Lender whether or not 
such consent is granted;

31.6 For the purposes of this Condition 31 the Lenders costs, charges and 
expenses include not only the money which the Lender must pay to other people in 
connection with the Mortgage, but also the internal administration costs the Lender 
incurs when carrying out work or providing a service in connection with the Mortgage 
itself. Where the Lender incurs administrative costs, these may be recovered by 
charging the Borrower an administration fee. The administration fees charged will be 
based on the Lenders reasonable assessment of the cost of doing the work or 
providing the service in question. This means that the Lender can change the fees 
charged to reflect a change in the cost of doing the work or providing the service. a 
tariff of administration fees was sent with these Conditions and a current tariff will be 
sent each year, if there have been any changes to it
In addition, the tariff of charges which Mr S received when he took out the mortgage says:
This leaflet contains details of the current costs/fees which will apply to your 
mortgage and may be amended from time to time
Where there is a change in the tariff, the new tariff will generally be sent out either with the 
annual mortgage statement or separately to borrowers. As this is done by mass mailing, I 
think its unlikely Mr S would not have received updated tariffs over the course of the 
mortgage term.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that RBS has not introduced an annual fee unilaterally. It 
has done so in accordance with the terms and conditions of the contract to which Mr S 
agreed when he took out the mortgage. I think its reasonable business practice for RBS to 
review annually those accounts where CTL has been granted. Im also satisfied the bank is 
entitled, under the terms and conditions, to charge a fee for doing so. 
Im satisfied RBSs offer to waive the fee for 2020 and 2021 is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Once Mr Ss current fixed-rate mortgage product expires in October 2021, 
Mr S will then have the option either of arranging a new product with RBS and paying the CTL fee from 2022 onwards (and, as I have said above, that fee may change in line with the 
terms and conditions) or arranging a new mortgage with another lender. 
As I understand it, unlike some lenders, RBS imposes no compulsion on borrowers renting 
out their properties with CTL to convert their mortgage to a buy-to-let (BTL) at the end of a 
fixed-rate product. Borrowers can maintain a standard residential mortgage with CTL, 
subject to paying the annual fee. As he is not living in the property, Mr S would probably 
have to arrange a BTL mortgage if he decided to move his mortgage away from RBS to a 
new lender. 
That is, of course, a decision for Mr S to make but I would suggest he might want to take 
independent financial advice about what might be the best option for him before making any 
decision about whether or not to stay with RBS and pay the annual fee from 2022 onwards, 
or move to a BTL mortgage with a new lender.
I know this isnt the outcome Mr S wanted, but Im satisfied RBS has done nothing wrong in 
applying a CTL fee to Mr Ss mortgage account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman