DRN-3843785
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Covea Insurance plc failed to repair their property to a proper 
standard following a kitchen fire, and they provided poor customer service.   
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs C held a buildings and contents insurance policy with Covea. 
In December 2021 Mr and Mrs C made a claim under their policy following a fire in their 
kitchen which damaged the worksurface and a cupboard door. 
Covea appointed a contractor to deal with repair and replacement.  
The contractor was unable to match the cupboard colour and after three attempts, Mr and 
Mrs C said that they were left with a poorly hung cupboard door that didnt match and a 
worktop repair that had bubbled and peeled. 
Mr and Mrs C complained and a different contractor was appointed. The new contractor  
advised that they didnt have matching items on the policy but they would attempt to match 
the door.   
Mr and Mrs C complained to Covea about the quality of the service provided, the length of 
time it had taken and the poor communication. Mrs C also said she has taken several days 
off work waiting on for parts and contractors.  
The complaint was upheld in October 2022 and Covea accepted that they hadnt provided 
the service to be expected. They offered £250 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with this and brought their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and he thought that 
Covea should pay £600 compensation for distress and inconvenience.   
 
Covea disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have upheld Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, and I will explain why.  
Covea have upheld Mr and Mrs Cs complaint as they accepted that the level of service  they 
provided fell short of what Mr and Mrs C were entitled to expect. So, I am only considering 
whether the offer made adequately reflects the inconvenience caused by those failures in 
service. Mr decision covers all the issues raised and outstanding up until the final response 
was sent on 7 October 2022. Any ongoing issues after that time would need to be raised as 
a separate complaint.   
I can see that the first contractor that was appointed promptly in December 2021 and was 
confident that they could do the worktop repair and take the cabinet off site for repair. In 
January they did repair the worksurface but by March 2022 the door still hadnt been 
replaced satisfactorily. In April the contractor attended Mr and Mrs Cs property twice to fit a 
door, but the colour match wasnt right on either occasion and one of the doors was 
delivered damaged. Mr and Mrs C C told Covea that they were giving the contractor another 
chance to put it right, but the contractor then confirmed that they couldnt match the door, 
although the worktop had been repaired. 
At the end of April Covea instructed a second contractor. They visited Mr and Mrs C. After a 
lot of chasing from Mrs C there had still been no progress by the beginning of July. Mrs C 
also advised that she was now unhappy with the worktop repair. 
At the end of July, the new contractors advised that the policy only covered damaged items 
and didnt cover matching other undamaged items, so the other cupboard doors couldnt be 
replaced to match the damaged one. Work had still not started by the 11 August, and so Mrs 
C complained. 
By October, Covea advised that the new contractors could provide a door with a 90% match 
and so work could be started. Mrs C opted to change all the worksurfaces so they would 
match, and to pay the contractor privately, given the failure of the repair. 
 
At the beginning of October, Covea responded to Mrs Cs complaint, and offered £250 in 
recognition of the poor service by the first contractor in not being able to replace the door on 
three occasions and the also for the delays and lack of communication by the second 
contractor.
I can see from looking at the complaint notes, and from Mr and Mrs Cs testimony that what 
should have been a quite simple and straightforward claim has become time consuming and 
stressful. There have been mistakes, long periods of inactivity, and failures to communicate 
with Mr and Mrs C. This has resulted in wasted time on their part making repeated calls to 
chase things up and waiting in for contractors. This has all taken place over a 10-month 
period when it really should have been a matter of weeks. 
So, in view of that, I agree with the investigator that the original offer of £250 should be 
increased to £600 which more adequately reflects the time and inconvenience that it has 
cost Mr and Mrs C. 
 
Putting things right
I think that Covea should pay a total of £600 to Mr and Mrs C for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Any sum already paid should be deducted from this.  
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, and direct Covea Insurance plc to put 
things right as above. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 Joanne Ward
Ombudsman