DRN-2688829
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as 
Legal and General (L&G) when he needed to transfer a pet insurance policy into his name 
and make a claim. My references to L&G include its agents.  
What happened
Mr S parents had a cat who was insured through L&G and his mother was the policyholder. 
In April 2019 Mr S asked L&G to transfer the policy and bank account details into his fathers 
name as sadly his mother had passed away. Mr S says he spent about 30 hours on the 
phone to L&G trying to complete the transfers but the policy was never transferred to his 
father. Mr S was distressed in having to repeat the family circumstances to L&G and L&G 
sent letters to his fathers address with his mothers name on which greatly upset his father.  
In August 2019 Mr S contacted L&G to get the policy transferred to him after his father sadly 
also passed away. The policy was transferred to Mr S that month. But Mr S says he 
continued to receive very poor service from L&G. In summary he says:
L&G wrongly kept sending him letters saying the policy would be cancelled because 
it hadnt received the monthly premium and it changed the amount owed. He called 
L&G several times to update the payment details but it told him it had a system error 
so similar letters continued to be sent and some still contained his mothers details. 
He asked to speak to a manager at L&G but never received a call.
as he kept receiving letters threatening to cancel the policy he didnt go ahead with 
the treatment the vet recommended for the cat as he couldnt pay for treatment and 
was concerned the policy wouldnt cover. In October 2019 he submitted a pre-
authorisation form for the treatment the cat needed but L&G delayed giving pre-
authorisation. Although L&G told him in a call what would be covered he didnt 
receive the written confirmation he wanted and had to chase L&G on the day of cats 
treatment
following the treatment the vet had to chase L&G for payment, even though L&G said 
it had paid. When the vet received payment L&G had just paid the minimum it 
needed to pay and it wasnt clear what the payment covered. The information on the 
policy was still incorrect.
Mr S complained to L&G around October 2019. It acknowledged and apologised for the poor 
service. It paid him £300 compensation for his distress and inconvenience. Mr S separately 
complained about the lack of contact around the pre-authorisation forms and L&G paid Mr S 
a further £75 in compensation.
Mr S complained to us. He says £375 compensation doesnt reflects all his upset and 
inconvenience due to L&Gs service when he was already suffering from the loss of both his 
parents, had his own serious health problem and was off work with stress. He believes 
£3,000 would be fairer compensation. He says that amount would enable him to pay for the 
cats vet care without the need to involve an insurance company for the next 12 months and 
be a reprimand to L&G.
While the complaint was with us L&G offered to pay Mr S another £100 compensation. Our 
investigator thought £475 compensation in total was a reasonable amount.
Mr S disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In brief he said:
the circumstances of his complaint meant it was more serious than L&G just giving 
poor service 
he has a severe visual impairment, so writing to L&G took much longer and he had to 
have support from his partner to help with the complaint which added to his distress. 
He said hed told L&G about his disability but it hadnt provided correspondence in an 
easy to read format as he requested
the delay in him being able to get treatment for the cat was unacceptable and L&G 
showed negligence and indifference towards an animal's wellbeing 
hed wanted to rehome the cat but wasnt able to because she needed medical 
treatment. So he had to pay £880 for cat food and £320 for pet insurance since 
October 2019 and the £3,000 compensation he wants would cover his lost personal 
finances during this period, enable him to pay for the cats future medical care and/or 
rehome her
if the time hed spent on the complaint was costed at the minimum wage the cost 
would exceed £600
in June 2020, while the complaint was with us, L&G took an unauthorised payment 
from his bank account which shows it hadnt improved its services. L&Gs response 
when he complained about the payment showed it wasnt taking his complaint 
seriously 
having looked at the guidance about compensation on our website he believed his 
level of distress and inconvenience was in the severe category, £2,000 to £5,000 
compensation.
Mr S also said hed like us to listen to the calls between him and L&G.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the main issues above but I have considered all the detailed points Mr S 
has made, as well as evidence from L&G in coming to my decision.
I dont think L&Gs original payment of £375 compensation was enough to acknowledge the 
distress and inconvenience it caused Mr S. But I think its new offer of an additional £100, 
£475 compensation in total, is a reasonable amount. So I partly uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
What I can consider
I want to set out what I have and havent been able to take into account. As our investigator 
explained, I can consider L&Gs service issues from August 2019, when Mr S became the policyholder, until January 2020 when he complained to us. So while Mr S had some poor 
service from L&G before the policy was transferred to him I cant take that into account in 
deciding what compensation to award.  
I also cant take into account the issues Mr S raised around L&G taking two payments from 
his bank account in June 2020. Our investigator correctly told Mr S that he would need to 
raise a separate complaint with L&G about those issues and if he remains unhappy with 
L&Gs response he can make a new complaint to us to consider.
Our investigator also explained that L&G told us that because of the issues it was 
experiencing its unlikely the call recordings will still be available. But as L&G accepts Mr S 
would have experienced poor service I dont think listening to the calls would make a 
difference to my decision.
I can only consider issues that Mr S has already complained about to L&G. Mr S says he 
told L&G that his sight was impaired and he wanted correspondence in a different format. 
Ive no evidence that he complained to L&G about that issue when he complained about the 
other matters and if Mr S wants L&G to consider that specific issue hell need to complain to 
it. If he is unhappy with L&Gs response he can make a new complaint to us to consider that 
issue. As a general point Ive seen no evidence that Mr S has been disadvantaged in making 
his complaint as hes been able to provide detailed information in support of his complaint 
with his partners help. 
Why I think L&Gs new offer is fair
Im sorry Mr S experienced poor service from L&G at such a difficult time in his life. 
I understand that having to deal with L&Gs poor service in those circumstances would have 
been upsetting, stressful and time consuming. 
Mr S also explained how guilty he felt about not being able to treat his parents cat sooner 
and says L&G delayed treatment for three to four months. But I dont think L&G was 
responsible for that amount of delay.
The pre-authorisation form gives the date that Mr S noticed a lump on the cat as 
1 September 2019. The vet notes show that on 5 September 2019 the vet advised the 
mammary lump be removed, blood taken for a hyperthyroid check, a dental be done and 
Mr S was going to check what the insurance would cover. L&G says on 11 September 2019 
it told Mr S that its system problem causing the premiums payment issues wouldnt impact 
on the policy cover and he should make a pre-authorisation claim, which it received on 
1 October 2019.
Attached to the claim form are L&Gs pre-authorisation letters for the mammary lump and 
hyperthyroidism dated 19 November 2019. L&Gs letter to Mr S, of the same date, in 
response to his first complaint says it assures him that it recognises the payment issue to be 
the result of our system limitations, you have received continuous cover which remains 
available under the usual terms and conditions of your policy, up until your next renewal.
The vet notes show that on 16 December 2019 the cat went for treatment but as the vet 
could no longer identify the lump it wasnt removed and there was discussion as to how the 
cats ongoing thyroid issues could be managed. 
The evidence shows there was a delay of about six weeks in L&G giving pre-authorisation, 
which it accepts. I dont think it delayed the cats treatment for three to four months. L&G had 
been clear to Mr S that the policy cover wasnt affected. And theres no vet evidence that the 
cats treatment was urgent or that her health was made worse by any delay.The claim form is dated 18 December 2019 and L&G made the payments to the vet in 
January 2020. So I dont think there was substantive delay in payment. Mr S says  L&G paid 
the minimal it had to for the claims. I think L&G paid the claims in line with the policy terms 
and fairly. Its 15 January 2020 letter to Mr S sets out what has been paid and deducted.
Mr S also said L&G is responsible for him having the cost of the cats food and insurance as 
hed wanted to rehome her but wasnt able to because she needed medical treatment. I dont 
think L&G is responsible for Mr S incurring those costs. The vet notes of 5 September 2019 
show the vet suggested Mr S speak to charities to see if they could help rehome the cat. 
From my experience, most charities accept animals whether or not they need medical  
treatment. Theres no evidence that the cat had to be treated before a charity would accept 
her and, as Ive said, I dont think L&G was responsible for a three to four months delay in 
treatment.
Mr S says £3,000 compensation would also help him pay for the cats future vet treatment 
and/or to rehome her. But theres no reason why L&G should pay for the cats future vet 
treatment (unless its under cover of its insurance policy) or pay for the cat to be rehomed. 
Mr S has also mentioned that the time hes spent dealing with L&G would be more than 
£600 if charged at the minimum wage. But I dont make awards based on units of time, 
instead I look at the overall impact of the business poor service.
Theres no basis for me to award Mr S the £3,000 compensation hes looking for. I dont 
award compensation as a penalty or reprimand to a business. Mr S has referred to the 
compensation guidance on our website. Hell see that the circumstances of this complaint 
dont equate with the example our guidance gives for compensation in the severe category. 
I dont think L&Gs poor service caused Mr S long term distress and embarrassment.
I think L&Gs poor service caused Mr S inconvenience and upset at an already very difficult 
time for him. As Mr S has mentioned, our website gives the example of a moderate award  
of compensation being appropriate for a business putting right an administrative problem 
only after a consumer had to write and phone repeatedly, which caused inconvenience. 
Many awards for such a situation are nominal. But L&Gs new offer bringing the total 
compensation to £475 is at the top of the scale for moderate awards and Im satisfied thats 
a reasonable amount given Mr S particular circumstances.
Putting things right
Its not clear if L&G paid the £375 compensation by cheques and if so whether Mr S 
accepted the cheques. If he didnt and now wishes to accept the payment he should contact  
L&G direct. My award is for £100 compensation to bring the total payment to £475, as L&G 
has now offered..
final decision
I partly uphold this complaint.
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General to pay Mr S £100 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience in addition to the £375 its already paid, 
and as its now offered.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman