DRN-2934793
The complaint
Mrs D complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly turned down her 
claim on her buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D claimed on her buildings insurance for damage caused by an escape of water from a 
leaking stop cock. Mrs Ds builder found the leak and the damage (and repaired it) when he 
was doing kitchen renovation work for her. 
RSA turned down Mrs Ds claim because its validation agent said the damage wasnt caused 
by the leak.
Mrs D complained to RSA about this and the service shed got from it. RSA upheld Mrs Ds 
complaint in part, saying its validation agents service had fallen short of the standard it 
expected. So RSA paid Mrs D £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
had caused her. But RSA was satisfied it had turned down Mrs Ds claim correctly and in line 
with her policy terms and conditions.
Mrs D then brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it didnt uphold it. He 
thought the compensation RSA had paid Mrs D for the service issues shed had was 
reasonable. And he thought RSA had fairly relied on the expertise of its validation agent to 
turn down her claim.
Mrs D disagrees and has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs Ds buildings insurance policy covers her for damage caused by water escaping from 
washing machines, dishwashers and fixed water or heating systems. 
RSA has accepted there was a leak, which Mrs Ds builder found coming from a hidden 
stopcock when he was stripping out the kitchen. This means an insured event had occurred 
under Mrs Ds buildings insurance policy.
When Mrs D made her claim on her buildings insurance, it was for her (not RSA) to show the 
leak caused the damage. To support her claim, Mrs D has relied mostly on what her builder 
has said. His invoice for the repairs notes the plasterboard had broken down, drawing 
moisture to a height of up to 1800mm around the kitchen walls because of the leaking 
stopcock. He says the plasterboard had been fitted before the floor screed had been laid, 
creating a small channel around the room in which it appeared water from the stopcock had 
travelled. Also to support her claim, Mrs D has given us an internet link to a US website 
saying plasterboard wicks up water, even if water has never touched it.
RSAs validation agent didnt inspect Mrs Ds kitchen  the repair works had already been 
done (as part of Mrs Ds kitchen renovations) when Mrs D made her claim. So it carried out a 
desktop assessment, looking at the details of Mrs Ds claim and the photos shed sent in 
(taken by her builder at the time). 
The validation agent initially told Mrs D it was turning down her claim because she hadnt 
suffered a financial loss  it said her builder was already doing the work. But Ive also seen 
the validation agents internal notes from the time. These say it deals with this type of work 
on a daily basis and a leak from a dripping stopcock at floor level has not caused damage 
almost two metres higher. 
When Mrs D complained about the claim being turned down, RSA asked its validation agent 
to re-review Mrs Ds claim. Its building technician said he thought the decision to turn down 
the claim was correct.
Looking at the photos after the kitchen was stripped out, he says there were two areas of 
damage. On the left-hand side of the kitchen, where the wall units and tiles were fitted, he 
says there are damp patches to the plaster but no mould where the tiles have been 
removed. He says at a low level the concrete block wall shows no evident moisture or damp 
patches and neither does the concrete floor. On the right-hand side of the kitchen, he says 
the plasterboard shows damage from the removal of the tiles but theres only slight mould 
evident. He says this is at a low level, so more than likely is rising damp. He says there is no 
evident damp to the floors, and the area around the sink where the old stopcock was located 
also shows no wet to the floors.
The technician also looked at one photo taken before the kitchen was stripped out. From 
this, he says there was evident damage to the walls both to the left and the right of the 
window. He says this damage highlights an issue at high level, not at low level where the 
stopcock was located.
The information Ive got on whether or not the leak caused the damage is conflicting  Mrs D 
says it did, RSA says it didnt. And the repairs to the damage were carried out as part of   
Mrs Ds kitchen renovations, so I cant ask for any further reports to be done. My role isnt to 
decide if the leak caused the damage. Its to decide if, having looked at all the information 
Ive got, I think RSA acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mrs Ds claim because she 
hadnt shown a link between the two was likely. 
On balance, I think RSA has acted fairly and reasonably. When Mrs D made her claim, RSA 
had it validated by its expert agents, as Id have expected, and then had it reviewed again 
when she complained. I dont think the reasons the validation agent first gave Mrs D for 
turning down her claim  that she hadnt had a financial loss  were persuasive (although, as 
Ive mentioned, its internal notes also say it doesnt think the leak caused the damage). But I 
think RSAs building technicians subsequent comments are more persuasive in their detail 
and observations than those of Mrs Ds builder. And as such I think it was fair and 
reasonable of RSA to rely on its experts views to turn down Mrs Ds claim.
In response to our investigators view on her complaint, Mrs D says shes perplexed he 
relied on the findings of a company that neither visited her home nor spoke to her kitchen 
fitter. But since the repairs (understandably) had been done by the time Mrs D claimed, I can 
understand why the validation agent didnt visit. And I wouldnt expect RSA to speak to her 
builder, especially having the details in his invoice. Mrs D has also said shed be interested to hear from RSA what caused the water damage, if 
the stopcock didnt. But, as Ive said, it was for Mrs D to show there was a likely link between 
the two and not for RSA to say what else mightve caused the problem. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman