DRN-4274060
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) removed the discount from 
his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P purchased a telematics insurance policy from Admiral. The policy had a discount 
applied as it required a telematics box being installed, which could monitor Mr Ps driving.
It was identified by Admiral that the telematics box wasnt working correctly. Admiral 
contacted Mr P and said he needed to book an appointment for an engineer to look into the 
problem, and by a certain date. Otherwise, they said the policy would revert to a 
non-telematics policy and the discount would be removed.
Ultimately an appointment wasnt made by the deadline, the discount was removed, and 
Admiral charged Mr P the additional premium. Mr P was unhappy with this, as he says he 
tried to arrange an appointment, so he approached this service to look into things.
Our investigator considered the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. He said that as an 
appointment wasnt made by the deadline, and Admiral had made reasonable attempts to 
contact Mr P to arrange it, he didnt think removing the discount was unfair.
Mr P didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr P, Ive 
reached the same outcome as our investigator.
Mr Ps policy had a discount applied for having a telematics box installed to monitor his 
driving. Admiral contacted Mr P to let him know that his telematics box wasnt working 
correctly, and they said hed need to book an engineer appointment within 14 days, or the 
discount would be removed and the difference in premium would be charged. This is in line 
with the policy terms:
Dealing with device faults
Broken telematics unit
If, during the terms of the insurance policy, the telematics unit is suspected by us to 
be defective, we, or the supplier will contact you and make all reasonable attempts to 
repair or (at our option) replace the telematics unit free of charge.
If a visit from an engineer is required to repair or replace your telematics unit, you will 
again be contacted by us or the installer network to book a suitable appointment. You 
must ensure your vehicle is made available to our engineers within 14 days of our 
request to inspect the telematics unit, or your telematics discount will be removed.
Mr P has explained to our investigator that there were issues with the original appointment 
for installation of the telematics box, and they needed to attend on more than one occasion 
to install it. However, whilst our investigator recognised this, he also explained this wasnt 
the reason the discount was ultimately later removed.
Instead, Admiral had contacted Mr P to say there was an issue with the telematics box and it 
wasnt working correctly, which required him to book an appointment with an engineer within 
14 days. Because this didnt happen by the deadline given, or in the three weeks after the 
original deadline, despite Admiral and their agents attempts to contact Mr P, the discount 
was removed.
Mr P says he tried to contact Admiral after they notified him to arrange the engineer 
appointment and has provided copies of emails, and his phone bill, where a call was later 
made to the manufacturer of the telematics box. Ive seen these emails and phone bill and 
acknowledge Mr Ps initial attempt.
However, Mr Ps later call was to the manufacturer of the telematics box, and they dont 
carry out installations or appoint engineers. But the manufacturer did pass the service 
request to the installer that same day. They then tried to contact Mr P on the same day, but 
there was no answer or voicemail facility. They tried again three days later, Mr P answered, 
the agent explained where they were calling from, and Mr P said he wasnt available to 
speak. Mr P hasnt provided anything which shows he tried to contact them again after this.
The deadline had already expired around two weeks prior to this contact, and Mr P didnt 
contact Admiral or the installer again to arrange the appointment. Admiral then wrote to Mr P 
to advise him that as he hadnt arranged an appointment by the deadline (which was three 
weeks before) and he hadnt arranged an appointment since, the discount would be 
removed, and an additional premium would be charged in the next seven to ten days.
Having considered all the information available, I think Admiral (and their installation agents) 
made reasonable attempts to contact Mr P. And this was beyond the original deadline they 
gave too, so Mr P had further opportunities to arrange an appointment beyond the original 
deadline. As Mr P didnt arrange an appointment by the deadline (or after this), I dont think 
Admiral acted unfairly by removing the discount, in line with the terms of Mr Ps policy.
Mr P has also said separately he is unhappy with how he was spoken to on a call as he said 
this was slander. However, Mr P hasnt been clear when this call was, or who it was with, 
Admiral, the installer, the engineer or the telematics box manufacturer, and our investigator 
said he hadnt seen any evidence in support of this. I also havent seen any evidence of this 
either. And Mr P also hasnt raised this specific complaint with Admiral to consider or 
address. If Mr P is unhappy with a specific call he had and can provide details of this and 
why he is unhappy, he should raise this with Admiral to consider further. But Im satisfied, for the reasons outlined, based on all the remaining information and 
evidence that Ive seen, that Admiral hasnt acted unfairly by removing the telematics 
discount from Mr Ps policy as he didnt arrange an engineer appointment by the deadline (or 
in the three weeks after, prior to the discount being removed). So, I wont be directing 
Admiral to do anything further.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman