DRN-2044007
The complaint
Mr G complains Western Circle Ltd (Cashfloat) lent him money he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr G took out two instalment loans with Cashfloat. The details for these loans are:
Loan Date amount instalments monthly 
repaymentRepayment 
date
1 03/11/2018 £200 2 up to £146.22 07/11/2018
2 12/12/2018 £400 3 up to £202.02 Outstanding
When Mr G complained to Cashfloat that the loans werent affordable it didnt agree. It says 
it was entitled to rely on the information Mr G gave about his income and outgoings, and 
when it did so, along with carrying out a credit check, it saw that the loans were affordable 
for her. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Gs complaint should not be upheld. He says 
Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks for the loans and so it didnt do anything wrong. 
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators view and said it should have conducted a thorough 
check and seen he couldnt afford the loans. He says short term lending shouldnt be so 
easy to access. As both parties are still not in agreement, the complaint has come to me, an 
ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
G could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Gs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Cashfloat did a number of checks before it lent to Mr G. It asked him for details of his income 
and his normal expenditure. And it then used this information to calculate how much 
disposable income Mr G had left over each month. Cashfloat also says it used a credit 
reference agency to gather some more information about Mr Gs financial situation at that 
time although it has not been able to provide any documentation or the results from the 
checks.
Cashfloat says Mr G told it he was earning £1700 when he applied for loans 1 and 2. It says 
he told it he had expenditure of around £530. Cashfloat says the credit agency check it 
carried out on each occasion was satisfactory although again, I havent been able to see 
what it says it saw at the time. 
I can see for loans 1 and 2 the monthly repayment was a small proportion of Mr Gs declared 
disposable income, the instalment amount on each occasion was low, and this was his first 
two loans with Cashfloat. So, for those reasons, I am satisfied that the checks carried out by 
Cashfloat for loans 1 and 2 were proportionate.
Mr G has said Cashfloat should have carried out thorough checks when it agreed to lend to 
it. Cashfloat has confirmed that it used Credit Reference Agencies as part of its affordability 
assessment but as I have already said, it has not given much detail about this. There wasnt 
any requirement for it to carry out detailed credit checks  just that it needed to conduct 
proportionate checks. And as Ive said above, I think that proportionate checks would have 
shown that the two loans were affordable for Mr G based on what he told them for the 
reasons I have already given.
Overall, Im not satisfied that there was anything which should have alerted Cashfloat to the 
possibility that Mr G wouldnt be able to afford to repay the loans, or which ought to have 
prompted them to carry out more detailed checks.
In conclusion, I consider the affordability checks that Cashfloat made on Mr Gs two loans 
were proportionate and sufficient. So, I cant say now that it was wrong for Cashfloat to give 
loans 1 and 2 to Mr G. And so, I cant require it to do anything further.
Finally, I can see that Mr G has an amount left to repay for loan 2. He had agreed a 
repayment plan with Cashfloat but has not made repayments as had been agreed. I would 
ask that both parties discuss repayment of the amount outstanding and that Cashfloat treat 
Mr G fairly when it does this.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman