DRN-2411067
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited settled a third party insurance claim and reduced 
his no claims discount.
What happened
Mr H had a car insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
In November 2019, UKI were contacted by a third party drivers insurer. The third party 
claimed to have been involved in an accident for which Mr H was at fault.
Mr H says he wasnt at fault. He says his car was parked when the other driver collided with 
it and he wasnt even in the car at the time.
UKI settled the claim and paid for repairs to the other drivers car (at a cost of over £3,700). 
And they reduced Mr Hs no claims discount by five years.
Mr H complained to UKI. They said the claim had been settled without prejudice  leaving 
Mr H to pursue his own legal action if he wished. They said theyd settled because the third 
party had produced a credible statement from an independent witness who was willing to 
testify in court that Mr H had reversed into the third party vehicle.
UKI maintained their decision to settle was correct. But they paid Mr H £50 in compensation 
because theyd incorrectly closed his complaint before it should have been closed.
Mr H wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think UKI had done anything wrong.
Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He wants UKI to restore 
his no claims discount and to ensure the accident is recorded correctly as not his fault.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case that Mr Hs policy has terms which allow UKI to reduce his no 
claims discount if he is at fault for an accident which leads to a claim.
The terms also say that UKI are entitled to:
 take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim 
To put it bluntly, that means UKI can decide to settle a third party claim, rather than dispute it 
or go to court to defend it, if they wish to do so. They dont need Mr Hs agreement or 
permission to settle a third party claim.
The question for me is whether UKI  in making the decision to settle the claim  acted fairly 
and reasonably towards Mr H. Wed like to think that insurers making this kind of decision 
take all the relevant evidence into account  including their policyholders version of events. 
And wed like to think their decision would be soundly and reasonably based on that 
evidence.
In this case, the third party insurer sent UKI their customers version of events and a witness 
statement from an independent third party. This clearly states that Mr H reversed into the 
other drivers vehicle and was responsible for the collision. 
UKIs claim notes say they tried to contact Mr H several times to get his version of events, 
without success.
They also say Mr H finally contacted them only after theyd written to him to tell him it was 
their intention to settle the third party claim. The notes say that at that point, Mr H disputed 
that he was at fault and said hed speak to his own solicitors.
Some months later, after the claim was in fact settled, Mr H contacted UKI again and said he 
had a witness who could attest that he wasnt in the car when the incident occurred.
UKI have explained to Mr H that the credibility of any such witness might be questioned 
given the time that had passed since the incident.
I know Mr H will be disappointed, because I know how vehemently hes said he wasnt at 
fault for the accident, but I cant conclude that UKI have acted unreasonably in settling the 
claim when they did.
It seems to me they took all the available evidence into account, considered it carefully and 
concluded  not unreasonably in the circumstances  that theyd be very unlikely to 
successfully defend the claim. They then took the option theyre entitled to take according to 
the terms of the policy (as above) and settled the third party claim.
I hope Mr H will understand that its not for me to determine whether he was in fact 
responsible for the accident, even if that were possible with any certainty. And, if he wasnt 
responsible, I can understand his anger and frustration.
But I can only look at whether UKI acted reasonably and fairly in light of the evidence they 
had  and Im satisfied they did.
Mr H has told us he cant see how the decision to settle was justified when UKI originally told 
him theyd hope to settle the claim on a 50/50 basis. But I have to allow that UKI can change 
their stance on a claim in light of new information - and once the witness statement was 
disclosed to them, that changed the picture completely.
Hes also said UKI didnt ask him directly if he had any witnesses to the events in question. It 
appears UKI were trying to contact Mr H for some time before he spoke to them in detail. 
When he did  and particularly after UKI had told him about their intention to settle (and the 
reasons for it)  I dont think he could reasonably say that he wasnt aware that any witness 
willing to make a statement in his favour would have been useful at that point.
Mr H also questioned our investigators view on the case, saying that if UKI werent at fault, 
why had they paid him £50 in compensation. But Im satisfied the £50 was given to Mr H 
because of poor service in handling his complaint to UKI and not because UKI felt they were 
wrong about the way the claim itself had been handled.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman