DRN-3504864
The complaint
Miss H complains that NewDay Ltd was irresponsible in its lending to her. 
What happened
Miss H was provided with an Aqua credit card with an initial credit limit of £300 and the credit 
limit was gradually increased to £2,500. She says that NewDay had not been provided with 
any information that her financial situation had improved before the limits were increased 
and says the additional lending was irresponsible. Miss H says that she experienced 
difficulties in 2018 and that NewDay should have taken action then. Miss H says her Aqua 
credit card account and another account have now been closed even though she only raised 
a complaint about her Aqua credit card account.
NewDay noted that Miss H had an Aqua credit card account opened in March 2016 and a 
Fluid Mastercard account opened in May 2021. It said that before offering credit it 
considered a range of information provided by the credit reference agencies, account 
behaviour and information on the application form. It noted the accounts were aimed at 
people trying to improve their credit rating.
NewDay said that before the Aqua credit card was initially provided with a £300 limit, checks 
were carried out to establish Miss Hs income and indebtedness. It says Miss H met its 
lending criteria. It then monitored Miss Hs account and two credit limit increases were 
applied. It said Miss H was given notice of these increases and she could have opted out. It 
didnt accept that it was wrong to provide the credit limit increases. Miss H then applied for a 
Fluid account in May 2021 and based on her income, level of debt and other information 
gathered she met its lending criteria for an account with a £900 limit.
Our investigator didnt think that NewDay was wrong to provide the Aqua credit card in 
March 2016 with a £300 credit limit. However, she thought there were signs before the credit 
limit increase in September 2016 that Miss H may be struggling financially. Therefore, she 
didnt think the credit limit increase in September 2016 and subsequent increase in February 
2017 should have been provided. Our investigator noted the credit limit decrease in March 
2020 and the subsequent provision of the additional Fluid account with a £900 limit in May 
2021 and didnt think it reasonable this account was provided.
NewDay didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that although Miss H utilised her 
£300 limit this wasnt evidence that it was unaffordable. It said her first repayment was £90 
which was much higher than the £5 minimum. It said that although Miss H then made the 
minimum repayments this was her right and within the terms of her agreement. Prior to the 
credit limit increase to £1,300 it said Miss H missed one payment which was due to illness 
and her account was then brought back up to date and a late payment fee refunded. 
NewDay said that it carried out checks in line with the rules and that there was no evidence 
that Miss Hs financial difficulties were due to NewDays lending decisions. It said that the 
credit limit was decreased in March 2020, but this didnt put Miss H over her limit, instead 
this happened two months later due to Miss Hs spending.
In regard to the offer of a Fluid account in 2021, NewDay said that Miss H had been 
managing her Aqua card account within the policy and that the account didnt go into arrears 
until after it was closed following the outcome of her irresponsible lending complaint.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before providing Miss H with an Aqua credit card in March 2016, NewDay gathered 
information about her income and carried out a credit check. I didnt think these 
checks raised concerns and based on a credit limit of £300 against Miss Hs declared 
income I didnt find that NewDay was wrong to provide the Aqua credit card.
In September 2016, Miss Hs credit limit was increased to £1,300. NewDay said 
Miss H had the option to opt out of the limit increase but it was NewDays 
responsibility to ensure that the lending was affordable. The information provided 
showed Miss Hs account from May 2016, and balance and other information from 
June 2016. While this showed she was utilising most of her available credit I didnt 
think her usage raised concerns as she was making payments and wasnt using up 
to the limit. Miss H made a payment of £90 in July 2016 which didnt suggest she 
was struggling financially and then the minimum £5 payment in August. She made 
two cash withdrawals totalling £30 in June 2016 and incurred a late fee which 
NewDay explained was refunded. On balance I didnt think Miss Hs account 
management suggested she was struggling at the time of the first credit limit increase 
and based on the information available I didnt find I had enough to say that NewDay 
acted irresponsibly by providing this increase.
Miss H reduced the balance on her Aqua card the month after the credit limit 
increase and then her balance gradually increased. A further credit limit increase to 
£2,500 was provided in February 2017. At this time, Miss Hs outstanding balance 
was around £875. Miss H had incurred a further late payment fee and had been 
making cash advances. The credit data provided showed her number of active 
accounts was increasing along with her outstanding balances. The credit limit 
increase resulted in Miss Hs balance being over eight times the initial limit provided 
less than a year earlier. There was no evidence to show that further checks were 
undertaken to ensure this increase was affordable, and considering the information 
gathered at application stage and the subsequent account information I didnt think 
that NewDay should have provided this credit limit increase.
In 2018, Miss H contacted NewDay about the difficulties she was experiencing. In 
2020 she experienced further difficulties and her credit limit was reduced in March 
2020. Miss Hs account from that point until the application for a Fluid card account in 
May 2021 showed she incurred several overlimit fees. I thought this suggested that 
Miss H was continuing to experience financial difficulties. I noted further checks at 
the time of the application showed Miss H had an annual gross income of £44,000 
but also showed she had unsecured debt of £23,800. Given this and the concerns 
that had been noted on her Aqua account in the previous years I thought NewDay 
should have been concerned that providing further credit to Miss H at this time wasnt 
sustainably affordable.
Overall, I didnt think that credit increase in February 2017 should have been 
provided nor the Fluid card account. NewDay accepted my provisional decision. Miss H raised further issues about being 
contacted by debt collection companies, not receiving copies of statements that she had 
requested on several occasions and said the issues with NewDay were affecting her other 
credit accounts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I do not think NewDay was wrong to provide the initial 
Aqua credit card with a £300 limit and I also do not find I have enough to say the credit limit 
increase to £1,300 in September 2016 shouldnt have happened. However, I do not think it 
reasonable that the limit was then increased further in February 2017 and I also do not think 
that the Fluid credit account should have been provided. 
As no new information regarding the credit card account provisions and limit increases was 
provided my conclusions havent changed and I am upholding this complaint in regard to the 
Aqua credit card limit increase in February 2017 and the provision of the Fluid credit card 
account. I note Miss Hs concerns about her credit report and the redress to this complaint 
includes action in regard to this.
Miss H has raised other issues about how she has been treated while this issue has been 
outstanding and about not receiving statements despite requesting these on several 
occasions. However, as this complaint was raised about the provision of the credit cards and 
the credit limit increases and this is what has been investigated by NewDay, my decision is 
in regard to those issues. I understand Miss H has now received copies of her statements 
but if she wishes to raise a further complaint about this she can do so.
Putting things right
In regard to the Aqua account, NewDay ltd should: 
Rework Miss Hs account, removing all interest and charges that have been applied 
to any balance above £1,300 after February 2017. Any refund should be applied to 
reduce Miss Hs outstanding balance. In the event the refund results in an 
overpayment, this should be refunded to Miss H along with 8% simple interest per 
year calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement.
remove any adverse information recorded about this account from February 2017 on 
Miss Hs credit file.
In regard to the Fluid account, NewDay ltd should:
refund all the interest and charges Miss H has paid to date. If there remains an 
outstanding capital balance, NewDay should work with Miss H to establish an 
affordable repayment plan. If the refund results in a positive balance this should be 
paid to Miss H along with 8% simple interest* applied from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information recorded about this account from February 2017 on 
Miss Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, the business must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd should take the actions set out 
above in resolution of this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman