DRN-4137454
The complaint
Mr O complains that Tesla Financial Services Limited (TFS) supplied him with a car which 
was of unsatisfactory quality. 
What happened
Mr O entered into a conditional sale agreement with TFS in February 2022. This was to 
acquire a new car on a six year agreement. Fairly soon into the agreement, Mr O 
complained in April 2022 about problems he was having with the car. Within the first few 
months the car had several separate issues, which have been documented and evidenced 
to our service. I wont go into all the details here, as this isnt the crux of the complaint now. 
TFS responded in July 2022 with their final response letter. They upheld his complaint, but 
only agreed to investigate the faults further, and pay Mr O £180 compensation. Discussions 
were ongoing however as Mr O continued to have problems. After further problems, TFS 
said that as a commercial decision, they would allow him to return the car and end the 
agreement, refund his deposit, but not the monthly payments he had made. They also said 
they would refund any payment he had made for some acceleration boost software. 
Mr O wasnt happy with this, so referred his complaint to our service in December 2022. He 
told us that he felt he should be given a one off payment of £10,000 to cover his loss of 
value, or to return the car and receive a full refund including all monthly payments. 
An investigator here investigated the complaint and partially upheld it. They said that the car 
should be rejected as being of unsatisfactory quality under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA). They said TFS should end the agreement with nothing further to pay, take the car 
back, refund Mr Os deposit, and pay Mr O £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
But they didnt agree that Mr O should get any monthly payments back, as he had been able 
to use the car so should pay for the use of it. They said that as per the CRA, TFS were 
entitled to payment for his fair usage of the car, and the monthly payments could be kept as 
these fair usage payments.
Mr O didnt agree with this and asked the investigator to propose to TFS that he would keep 
the car, but they would pay him £5,000 compensation. TFS agreed with the original view by 
the investigator that the car could be rejected but didnt agree to Mr Os counter proposal to 
be paid £5000 compensation instead. With no agreement, Mr O asked for an Ombudsman to 
make a final decision on the case. He felt it was unfair that all of his monthly payments were 
being kept for fair usage.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr O was supplied with a vehicle under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it.
Both parties have now agreed that the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied. I 
wont therefore spend timing going through all the details of this, but its important for me to 
outline that when considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law 
and regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The 
CRA explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  TFS here  has a 
responsibility to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a 
reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, Ill consider here that the car supplied to Mr O was brand new 
and cost over £50,000. This means I think a reasonable person would have very high 
standards for the quality of the car. I think they would expect it to be in mint condition, free 
from even minor faults and would expect trouble free motoring for some time. 
Mr O suffered many faults with the car in the first few months, meaning he had to take 
several trips to and from the dealership to get things repaired and became increasingly 
frustrated. I agree that the combination of several faults meant that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality, and that after several attempts to repair things had been undertaken, 
he was within his rights to reject the vehicle. As I say, both parties have accepted this now 
so I will move on to focus on how things should be put right.
Mr O proposed keeping the car but being given a cash compensation payment by TFS. That 
isnt a remedy under the CRA, nor does it fit with a situation where the parties have agreed 
that rejection is the fairest outcome. So, whilst Mr O was entitled to ask TFS if they were 
prepared to do this, its not something that I would be proposing in these circumstances. 
Rejection of the car involves giving it back and ending the agreement with TFS. In these 
circumstances, wed generally expect TFS to return any deposit paid by Mr O, cover any 
other costs incurred like repairs to the car, and potentially to make a payment to recognise 
any distress or inconvenience caused. 
In my investigation, I noted that before the case came to our service, TFS had offered to 
refund Mr O for some acceleration boost software that he said he had purchased for the car. 
This hadnt been considered when our investigator had provided their view on the case, so I 
reached out to both parties to discuss this. Mr O confirmed he felt he should be refunded for 
this, and TFS agreed that they would be prepared to refund it but said they hadnt been able 
to find any evidence on file of the car having this software or Mr O paying for it. 
I confirmed at this point with both parties that if the car was rejected, provided it was proven 
that the software had been purchased, TFS would refund it, and both parties agreed. 
The stumbling block which hasnt been agreed and is therefore left for me to decide upon is 
Mr Os monthly payments. He originally felt he should get a full refund of these, but our 
investigator confirmed the details about a business being able to retain some payments or to 
charge a customer to recognise fair usage of the car, when processing a rejection. 
Different finance providers approach this in different ways, but at our service, our preference 
and our starting point is to consider any monthly payments made, where suitable, to reflect 
the fair usage of the vehicle. Mr O confirmed when the case was investigated that the car had travelled around 11,000 miles in the first nine months whilst suffering problems and 
faults, so I think its clear that Mr O has been able to use the car significantly and the faults 
havent impacted on this. As such, the CRA outlines that it is fair for TFS to keep fair usage 
payments to recognise this use, even when the car is being rejected. 
Mr O feels the monthly payments for this are too high and dont fairly recognise fair usage. 
Unfortunately, the CRA does not outline any specific way that these payments should be 
calculated, so it falls to me to decide, whether in these circumstances, what TFS have 
offered is fair. Mr O was paying £729 per month for six years for this agreement. He feels 
that because its a conditional sale rather than some sort of lease or hire purchase 
agreement, he should not have to give up all of this monthly payment for fair use. He also 
feels that hell have lost value/equity in the car that hes built up as he moves through the 
agreement towards owning the car. 
Whilst I appreciate his arguments, Im afraid I dont agree with them. The value/depreciation 
of cars over time is extremely difficult to predict. Whilst historically, we expected to see the 
value of a car drop significantly fairly quickly once it ceased being a new car and became 
used, with some unusual circumstances in the market, and difficulties supplying new cars 
in the last few years, there are examples of cars holding their value significantly and not 
depreciating at anywhere near the rate they have previously.  
What is clear is that this cant be accurately predicted, and it doesnt feel practical or fair to 
vary what is considered fair usage for a car based on short term spikes and changes in car 
valuations. It may be that currently, Mr O feels his car is worth more and hes losing that if he 
gives up his monthly payments and gives the car back. But equally, a few years ago, we 
wouldnt expect a consumer to pay more than their monthly payments generally to recognise 
fair usage, despite the fact that potentially the car may have lost 20-30% of its value almost 
as soon as it was driven away from the forecourt and would be being returned to the 
business at a much lower value often after a very short period. 
Our service feels that generally, a business keeping the monthly payments to reflect fair 
usage is a simple and broadly effective way to treat all parties as fairly as possible. In these 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that TFS keeping the monthly payments to reflect fair 
usage on rejection is unfair. 
Overall, I agree that the car was of unsatisfactory quality for the reasons detailed briefly 
above, and already agreed by both parties. 
Putting things right
I instruct Tesla Financial Services Limited to put things right as follows:
- End the agreement with nothing further to pay
- Collect the car at no cost to Mr O
- Refund Mr Os deposit *
- If Mr O can provide evidence of his purchase of the acceleration boost software for 
this vehicle, refund the cost of this to him. *
- Pay Mr O £250 to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused
- Remove any adverse information from Mr Os credit file in relation to this agreement* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment 
to the time of reimbursement. If TFS considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken 
off. It should also give Mr O a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint, and direct Tesla Financial Services Limited to put things right 
as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman