DRN-2658303
The complaint
Mr T complains Bank of Scotland plc dealt inappropriately with his fraud claim and that this 
has damaged his relationship with his daughter.
What happened
Mr T contacted Bank of Scotland on 17 June 2019 to report a payment of £169.50 made 
from his account as a fraudulent one that he didnt recognise. It confirmed to him on 17 July 
2019 that it accepted that he didnt authorise the payment and enclosed details it had 
received from the merchant. Mr T said that as some of the details matched those of his 
daughter he contacted her. She denied making the payment and since then hasnt spoken to 
him.
Bank of Scotland says that it didnt make a mistake. It contacted the merchant involved. And 
it said that based on the information provided it had decided that the payment was 
fraudulent. It said it was bound by the requirements of the card scheme to provide the 
information to Mr T. And it had asked him whether he had now recognised the transaction. 
As the claim had been accepted as fraud it wouldnt request further information from the 
merchant.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that Bank of 
Scotland hadnt made an error. There was nothing to suggest it had accused Mr Ts 
daughter of fraud directly. And the accuracy or nature of information from the merchant 
wasnt something it was responsible for.
Mr T didnt agree. He said he wanted to know whether or not his daughter had made the 
transaction or not. He felt that he had been treated very poorly by Bank of Scotland and if 
the letter hadnt been sent out in the first place he wouldnt be in this position. The merchant 
wasnt able to provide any more information and he had had been told by branch staff that 
there had been no point in going to police.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully understand the distress Mr T feels about what has happened. He wants to know 
exactly who made this payment and whether or not it was his daughter. He is unhappy that 
only partial information about this has been given by Bank of Scotland and this led him to 
speak to her about it.
Here Bank of Scotland has accepted what Mr T says and which is this is a payment he didnt 
authorise. And so, it put him in the position he should have been and permanently refunded 
his money. In deciding whether he did authorise the payment it doesnt need to identify any 
other specific person that had made it. And as it decided that he didnt make the payment 
itself then that was the end of its investigation and so it didnt have any more information. As 
Mr T has been refunded as a result I dont need to make any decision about who made the 
payment. If he does want to pursue this aspect further he would need to contact the 
authorities.
When Bank of Scotland wrote to Mr T enclosing the information from the merchant it told him 
it already had decided the payment was fraudulent. As Mr T could see this was different to 
the merchants documented view that the payment was authorised either by him or someone 
close to him. But Bank of Scotland still asked Mr T whether the information led to him 
recognising the payment. As our investigator says it wasnt then accusing his daughter of 
fraud or asking him to investigate with her whether she had made the payment. It wasnt 
responsible for the merchants view of the transaction and as I said took a different one. I am 
not even clear if it knew the relationship between the person linked to the transaction and    
Mr T other than there was a shared surname. 
Mr T clearly still didnt recognise the payment or accept it as a genuine one. Im afraid it was 
his decision to contact his daughter about this. As I say I dont know if she made the 
transaction or not, but I can see why in any event hed want to understand how some of her 
genuine details had come to be used in this way. But the wider consequences of that which 
Mr T describes I dont consider to be the responsibility of Bank of Scotland. Those are really 
down to the person who made this unauthorised payment using these details.
I know Mr T will be very disappointed when I say I dont find that Bank of Scotland made a 
mistake and that I dont have a reasonable basis to require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman