DRN-3038454
The complaint
Mrs L complained on behalf of herself and her husband. They were unhappy with Aon UK 
Limited in relation to various matters during the time Aon provided them with motor 
insurance. They didnt think Aon had done enough to address matters. 
What happened
Mrs L complained to this service in November 2020 and told us she was unhappy that Aon:
Repeatedly mixed up her title (Mrs) with that of her husband (Mr) against their first 
name initials. They considered this discriminatory.
She noted Aons final response letter admitting this mistake had been addressed to 
Mrs L but again wrongly used her husbands first name initial.
When first replying to the complaint there were emails from Aon that didnt have a 
senders name attached from Aon.
They thought Aon had deliberately taken a long time to investigate their complaint. 
She said shed wrongly been told Aon couldnt consider the complaint as they hadnt 
suffered any loss.
The offer of £50 for the distress and inconvenience suffered was inadequate.
Mrs L told us she and her husband had changed their motor insurance provider in 2020.
At the centre of Mrs Ls complaint was her email to Aon in February 2020 to ask for 
insurance renewal information. Aons reply was addressed to Mr L. Mrs L said their details 
had been updated several years previously when she took over the process of renewal. In 
her complaint she said Aon got this wrong every year and she thought they ought to know 
their customers personal details and be able to use them accurately.
Mrs L said shed also contacted Aon asking for renewal information the year before, and was 
unhappy it was delayed and was also unhappy with the cost. Mrs L went on to make a 
complaint about service. Correspondence on this matter in 2019 didnt use titles in the way 
the 2020 correspondence did.
In Aons response to the complaint in June 2020 they accepted errors in relation to the titles 
and initial letters being applied to headers in correspondence. They also accepted a member 
staff had failed to contact Mrs L about her complaint, when they ought to have done. Aon 
also didnt think theyd communicated appropriately on 10 March 2020. Aon offered Mrs L 
£50.
As matters progressed at this service Mrs Ls complaint expanded somewhat. We were able 
to also consider these matters. In summary Mrs L was also unhappy:
After the final response letter to the complaint was issued (in June 2020) Aon 
continued to make mistakes by using Mr Ls first initial when writing to Mrs L and 
vice versa, for some months.
The renewal information was sent too late and was too expensive.
Mrs L said they received no claims discount letters just after they complained and 
ceased their cover with Aon. She said the information had been wrong, and they 
thought this impacted their bonus.
Aon queried why this hadnt been raised at the time. 
Aon also queried submissions made by Mr and Mrs L more generally.
Aon told us the previous provider of the fleet motor insurance provided to Mrs and Mr L via 
Aon ceased to offer this cover in 2020. Thus, Aon sought a new provider, which created 
some delay around renewal in 2020. Ultimately the new provider was unable to offer a 
competitive price for cover. This wasnt something Aon had any control over.
Investigators view
The investigator concluded Aons offer of £50 was right in the circumstances. He thought 
Aon had appropriately acknowledged some failings in the service provided and their offer 
was fair.
The investigator thought Aon had corrected the use of titles and names on the system and 
accepted the errors would have been frustrating. He didnt think the renewal information had 
been unreasonably delayed in 2020. He accepted Aon had provided a fair explanation and 
that they didnt control the prices offered.
The investigator accepted Aons explanation that emails that didnt contain signatures or 
sender information were ones from a shared group email box and only contained generic 
information. He thought this was reasonable and when requested, theyd provided sender 
information.
He didnt think Aons investigation had taken time beyond the regulators guidance on 
timescales and didnt think there was anything personal in the approach.
The investigator didnt uphold any complaint about a no claims discount bonus document. 
Aon didnt have records of any document being sent and Mrs L hadnt provided copies, 
despite the investigators request. 
Mrs L responded and said Aon had held and provided the wrong information on their no 
claims bonus and she provided a copy of a document. She continued to think the wrong 
information had impacted their no claims discount.
She told us her husband had been the policy holder prior to their marriage. Shed been 
added in 2015 and then purchased a new vehicle in 2016 of which she was the registered 
keeper. Mrs L told the investigator that she and her husband had told the investigator and 
Aon to obtain copies of phone calls when the vehicle was added, and the no claims discount 
confirmed. She said, some foolish person has mixed our names up which we believe is 
discrimination. Mrs L referred the investigator to emails and calls and provided further 
information about a representative.
The investigator didnt change his thinking. He thought the document provided by Mrs L 
about a no claims bonus came from a third party. He noted it had been sent in March 2020 
and he thought this ought to have alerted them to any erroneous information being stored.  
So he thought they could have addressed this with Aon and their new insurer at the time to 
mitigate any impact or loss they were apparently referring to. He asked Mrs L more about this, and for any information about how this had caused financial impact or loss. Mrs and Mr 
L didnt provide any information on this. The case was referred for an ombudsman.
Aon told this service:
Theyd never had a representative with name Mrs L provided, working for their motor 
team.
There was nothing to suggest theyd provided wrong information to Mrs and Mr Ls 
new insurers.
They hadnt heard from Mrs or Mr L after June 2020.
This information was shared with Mrs L. Mrs L provided further information, in summary:
Copies of emails from herself to Aon from July and November 2020.
Letters from Aon from April, May and June 2020.
An email trail from 2016 involving Mr L and a representative.
Aon told us their system would have updated information after June 2020. As the policy 
lapsed there would have been no need to review the expired policy, and so the matter would 
have been considered only by the complaints team. They accepted their check missed 
communications with Mrs L after June 2020, but these didnt add anything new. Aon 
accepted someone called Shirley did appear to have been part of their motor team, but this 
had been historic. Aon said this didnt change their position on phone recordings, as 
everything that was available had been provided.
Provisional decision
I provided a provisional decision on 27 July 2021. I explained I didnt disagree with the 
conclusion reached by the investigator, but there remained one area where I wanted to 
provide opportunity for further comment.
I set out that I didnt intend to uphold Mrs and Mr Ls complaint as I thought Aon broadly 
accepted the main failures. I thought their apology and offer sufficiently met the impact.
The matter on which I invited further comment was around what Mrs L said about Aon 
providing the wrong data when it came to any no claims discount bonus or claim history. And 
what Mrs L had suggested about impact. 
I hadnt seen anything that made me think Mrs L or her husband had suffered financially as a 
consequence of Aon providing any wrong information to any new provider. Mrs and Mr L 
were invited to provide information on this assertion.
I went on to set out what Id seen in the information provided. This showed material from a 
third party. I also provided some general information I hoped might assist.
Mrs and Mr L didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Aon let us know the information from the third party related to a proposal that wasnt 
accepted. They had nothing to suggest theyd been contacted at the time about any errors 
on the document, which could have been corrected in advance if the cover had been 
accepted. The creation of some of the information had been by a third party, and Aon 
couldnt comment on some aspects of this as a consequence.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reflected on everything, I havent changed my thinking from that set out in my 
provisional decision. Im not upholding Mrs and Mr Ls complaint. I think Aon broadly 
accepted the main failures in their response of June 2020; and the apology and offer of £50 
sufficiently met the impact of the errors.
Aon didnt deal with some things as well as they could have done. For example, the poorly 
addressed the final response letter with the wrong initial and title. And this wasnt rectified as 
expeditiously as it ought to have been.  
I accept the following:
Aon did mix up the use of initial and titles.
Aon didnt remedy this or do things as well or as quickly as they could have done.
I dont accept:
Aon deliberately delayed the investigation of the complaint.
Aon deliberately removed sender details from emails in February 2020.
Renewal information in 2020 was sent too late and was unfairly expensive.
Ive considered the impact of where things have gone wrong. I dont think the mistakes in 
relation to the use of Mrs and Mr with the wrong corresponding initial for the couple have 
caused any financial loss or detriment. So Ive thought about what I think is appropriate to 
address any distress and inconvenience and impact complained of.
Without doubt Mrs L has been angry and frustrated by Aons repeated errors on this aspect. 
Its clear Aon failed to address the mistake over an extended period. I have no doubt Mrs L 
is correct when she suggests that at some point someone made an error and mixed things 
up on a system. 
It was particularly farcical and unsatisfactory that the final response letter to the complaint 
about this, repeated the same error. This tends to support Aons explanation on where the 
wrong information was stored on the data system and why it was therefore applied to 
populate addressee details on certain types of communications.
Whilst frustrating I dont accept this was something done maliciously. Nor do I consider it 
was discriminatory. I accept this is Mrs Ls perception, but I consider the continued used of 
the wrong initials against the wrong title was an unintended error that took longer than it 
ought to have done to be corrected. 
This poor service was also seen in the unsatisfactory start to the way Aon dealt with Mrs Ls 
initial complaint here. This was corrected swiftly.
Aon apologized and taking this into account alongside the offer of £50, this was appropriate 
to meet the impact of the errors overall.
Other continued administrative errors followed in relation to a failure to remedy the system 
quickly enough. These stem from the original error. And whilst it is frustrating Aon gave this 
service some inaccurate information, that isnt something I can reasonably take account of 
here. It isnt the role of this service to punish a business or to reach decisions about 
complaint handling. The one remaining issue was around what Mrs L said about Aon providing the wrong data 
when it came to any no claims bonus or claim history, and what was suggested about 
impact. 
Mrs and Mr L havent responded to my invitation to let me know more about this. I accept 
what Aon have said and think this is consistent with what I set out in my provisional decision. 
I dont uphold any complaint about Mrs and Mr Ls no claims discount being adversely 
impacted in the way suggested.
We were previously provided with a document by Mrs L. It is headed from a third party and 
called a Statement of Fact. I dont accept Mrs L or her husband suffered financially in 
relation to any information that might have been inaccurate, that was captured on the no 
claims information provided. I dont accept in any event Aon were necessarily responsible for 
all or any information that was provided on this. In addition, Mrs and Mr L would have been 
able to correct any errors in advance and ought reasonably to have been expected to. Here 
it doesnt appear the cover was accepted. 
I accept the renewal quote in 2020 was delayed as their previous provider left the market. 
When a new provider was found to provide a quote, this wasnt a competitive quote. The 
cost isnt something Aon could be reasonably considered responsible for here.
Additional matters
For completeness Mrs L thought we ought to require Aon to provide further telephone 
recordings. Ive explained my thinking on this and why I concluded I had enough to reach my 
decision. 
I accepted Mrs and Mr L provided their personal information to Aon prior to February 2020 
and that Aon had mixed up titles on a data storage system at some point. 
I havent been clear why Aon suggested theyd never had an employee with a particular 
name. But I dont think this added anything substantive to what Ive needed to decide. I 
understand this assertion will have undermined Mrs Ls trust, but by this stage and having 
considered the language and communication style adopted by Mrs L, the relationship had 
already deteriorated.
I havent made any finding on Aons decision to reply to Mrs Ls complaint by letter rather 
than phone call. For completeness again, the regulator defines and requires a formal final 
response to complaint to be in written form in general terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Ls complaint about Aon UK Limited. Aon 
appropriately acknowledged the main errors and thrust of the complaint and their offer of £50 
was fair in the circumstances. If this sum has not yet been paid to Mrs and Mr L, then it 
ought to be paid within 28 days of Aon being informed of acceptance of this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 Louise Wilson
Ombudsman