DRN-3593813
The complaint
R, a limited company, complains The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) sent back a 
payment made into its account from its customer and then closed the account. 
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties and are not in dispute here. 
Because of that, I will summarise the key points. 
A substantive payment was made into Rs account in 2020. This was blocked by RBS and it 
asked R for information relating to its source. 
R gave some information to RBS  which included a contract from its customer for the 
supply of goods.  
After reviewing this, RBS decided to return the funds back to source  that is, to the account 
from where they came. Because of this, R says it lost profits and future income which runs 
into millions of pounds. Its customer then cancelled the contract for the supply of goods. 
RBS later gave R sixty-days notice that it was closing the account. 
Unhappy with RBS actions, R complained. RBS did not uphold the complaint. So R referred 
its complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. They did not uphold the complaint, in short, 
they found: 
- Financial businesses have an obligation to understand where payments into its 
customers accounts come from  regardless of size 
- The amount sent to Rs account would only have heightened RBSs requirement to 
do so 
- Its reasonable to have expected R to have spoken to RBS in advance about the 
payment as it was signing up to binding obligations, and this transaction involved a 
substantial sum 
- The documentation about the deal did not match what happened in relation to the 
amount received. This, amongst other things, would explain why RBS had concerns 
- RBS acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account in refusing to accept 
the payment  and it acted fairly and reasonably by returning it  
- RBS did nothing wrong in closing the account by giving 60 days notice  which is in 
line with the terms of the account 
R did not agree with what our Investigator said. The complaint has now been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts. This can also involve the restriction of 
individual transactions. 
Given the amount of the transaction and it being incongruent with Rs previous behaviour, 
Im satisfied RBS acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with obligations placed on it, when 
restricting this payment. 
I now need to consider if I think RBS acted fairly and reasonably when deciding to return the 
payment back to its source. RBS took the actions Id expect it to by requesting R to provide 
information related to this payment. 
Having seen the information R sent, and amongst other things, given what is said on the 
contract doesnt materially match with the payment that was made, I can understand why 
RBS took the significant decision of returning the funds to source. Its also worth noting the 
payment, which runs into twenty millions of US dollars, is sharply incongruent with the 
behaviour I can see that took place on the account previously  and what R has told us is its  
normal turnover as a business. 
I also question why R didnt do more than it did to make RBS aware beforehand of what was 
happening given the significant scaling up of its business activity.   
R argues that had RBS asked it for more information than this situation could have been 
avoided. But I think the information it was presented with was enough for it to have taken the 
steps it did. 
As Im persuaded RBS acted fairly when returning the funds back to source, I dont think it 
needs to compensate R for any subsequent financial loss it says it has suffered. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which RBS and R had to comply with, say that it 
could close the account by giving them at least 60 days notice. And in certain circumstances 
it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by RBS, Im satisfied it was entitled to close the 
account in the way that it has done.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman