DRN-3813028
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his account without notice 
following it requesting KYC information around his business. 
What happened
Mr B had a business account with Barclays. As part of its regulatory obligations Barclays 
sent a letter on 29 April 2021 requesting information about Mr Bs business. Within the letter 
Barclays explained that it may have to close his account if it didnt hear back from him. 
Barclays didnt receive a response and sent a further letter on 5 June. Mr B said he sent the 
requested information to Barclays but it was not received and Barclays closed his account in 
May 2022 in-line with its policy and a cheque for the balance of his account was issued on 
24 May 2022.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs account say that Barclays can close the account by 
giving at least two months notice.
Mr B complained that he never received notice that Barclays was going to close his account 
and is unhappy at the amount of time it took Barclays to send him a cheque for the balance 
of his account.
Barclays said it used the correct process for both closing Mr Bs account and returning the 
funds from his account. It says it used a third party provider to send reminder letters in 
September and October 2021 outlining what would happen if it didnt get a response 
including the closure of Mr Bs account. Barclays said using a third party to send these 
letters meant that the letters were not loaded into its customer correspondence and it 
couldnt access the letters directly but it was able to show generic copies of these letters.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays was entitled to close Mr Bs account. The evidence from Barclays showed that the 
cheque for the closing balance was processed and issued when the account was closed. But 
they thought that Mr B shouldve been given notice that his account was being closed and 
that as Barclays couldnt provide evidence to show this had happened that it should 
compensate Mr B £200.  
Barclays agreed to settle the complaint in line with our adjudicators recommendations 
though it disagreed there wasnt evidence to support that it sent notice to Mr B about closing 
his account.  But Mr B didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And we may award modest compensation. 
So I need to consider whether Barclays did anything wrong in closing Mr Bs
account or in the processes it followed when doing this.  
As a general rule Barclays isnt obliged to continue offering an account to a customer if it 
doesnt want to and the terms and conditions of the account say it can close an account by 
giving two months notice.
Mr B has acknowledged he received the letters and reminders about providing Barclays with 
certain information. I can see the letters are correctly addressed to Mr B and are dated 29 
April and 5 June 2021. The letters say that Barclays may close Mr Bs account if it doesnt 
receive a response. And Im satisfied Barclays didnt receive the information requested or a 
response as I dont think it wouldve sent the reminders otherwise. So, Im agreement with 
our adjudicator that Barclays was entitled to close Mr Bs account. 
However, although Barclays say it gave the required two months notice that it was going to 
close Mr Bs account it cant evidence the date this was sent to Mr B as it used a third party 
to send out these particular letters. So I cant say that Mr B was given the required notice 
under the terms and conditions of the account that his account was going to be closed. 
Barclays disagrees that notice wasnt given but agreed to compensate Mr B the £200 
recommended by our adjudicator.  
Mr B doesnt want to accept this compensation as he is unhappy with the amount of time it 
took to receive a cheque for the closing balance of his account and doesnt think £200 is 
enough. I can see Mr Bs account was closed on 12 May and Barclays records show that a 
cheque was issued and sent to Mr B on 24 May which is around 7 working days later which I 
dont think is an unreasonable delay. I understand that Mr B says he didnt receive the 
cheque until 4 June but I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays accountable for a postal 
system it doesnt control.  
And I havent seen anything to persuade me that compensation above the £200 
recommended by our adjudicator and accepted by Barclays is warranted. So on that basis I 
think what Barclays has already agreed to do is a fair and reasonable way to settle Mr Bs 
complaint and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.
So it follows that I dont think Barclays made a mistake in closing Mr Bs account but I think 
Barclays should compensate Mr B £200 as it cant evidence when Mr B was given notice 
that his account was closing.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I partially uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Barclays Bank 
UK PLC pay the fair compensation of £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman