DRN-4433900
The complaint
Miss L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) acted unfairly after 
she reported unauthorised transactions on her account.
What happened
Around October 2021, Miss L reported unauthorised activity on her credit card. It seems her 
card was added to a contactless facility on an unknown device and used by a third-party to 
carry out unauthorised payments. This coincided with a Barclays bank account being 
created in her name, likely by the unauthorised third-party.
Barclays agreed the payments were unauthorised, so Miss L wasnt held liable for the 
payments. As part of the unauthorised activity, an unknown contact number was added to 
Miss Ls account. Barclaycard amended this information so that only Miss Ls number 
remained on her account. 
Miss L wanted more information on how her details were compromised  Barclays couldnt 
share this, so she raised a complaint. Miss L is also unhappy with the overall service she 
received. She says all her concerns werent addressed, call back requests from her were 
ignored and follow up contact from her wasnt responded to. In its response, Barclays 
reiterated that it couldnt share any further information on how Miss Ls details were 
compromised. It also paid her £100 compensation for the inconvenience she experienced.
Remaining unhappy, Miss L asked this service to get involved. Our investigator decided that 
Barclays had acted fairly. Miss L doesnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
Miss L has also complained about the bank account that was fraudulently set up in her 
name. This complaint is being considered separately by this service under another case 
reference  so I wont be commenting on this part of her complaint in this decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I share the opinion that Barclays has acted fairly  Ill explain why. 
In situations such as this, where a customer raises a concern about unauthorised 
transactions, Id expect Barclays to carry out a prompt and thorough investigation. If the 
relevant information about the transactions point to them to being unauthorised, then Id 
expect Barclays to refund the payments or write them off altogether.
I can see thats what Barclaycard has done here. After Miss L raised the unauthorised 
payments with Barclays, it seems the bank confirmed the payments were unauthorised 
around a week later. The bank has confirmed that Miss Ls information, such as the mobile 
number recorded on her account has since been corrected. I also understand that Barclays 
added Miss L to the CIFAS database (which is a fraud prevention agency) as a victim of 
fraud. So Im satisfied that Barclays acted reasonably in response to the unauthorised 
transactions.
Understandably, Miss L was left distressed by the situation and had to go through the 
inconvenience of dealing with the matter. Barclays has already paid her £100 compensation 
because of this. I must keep in mind that much of the distress Miss L experienced was 
caused by the unauthorised third-party accessing and using her details to carry out 
payments on her account. I cant see that Barclays did anything to compound this distress 
and inconvenience further. So I think the compensation Barclays has already paid to Miss L 
is fair. 
Miss L remains unhappy because Barclays wont share how her details were compromised. 
Barclays explained that the unauthorised third-party set up a bank account in Miss Ls name, 
and then used their access to find the information needed to add Miss Ls credit card to a 
mobile device. But the bank says it cannot divulge any further details. Its unclear whether 
Barclays knows for certain how Miss Ls details were compromised. But even if it did, I dont 
think its unreasonable that the bank has chosen not to share any further information. 
Unauthorised activity such as what Miss L experienced clearly involved complex actions on 
the part of the third-party. So its often difficult to pinpoint exactly how someones details 
were compromised. Ultimately, there isnt anything Ive seen that suggests Miss Ls 
information was compromised because of something Barclays did wrong. Nor do I think that 
sharing any further information the bank does have will necessarily prevent Miss L from 
being a victim of fraud again. So I dont think its unfair that Barclays has chosen not to share 
any further details. 
Miss Ls unhappy that Barclays didnt promptly respond to her follow up correspondence 
after its final response of November 2021. I can see that Miss L sent a few emails and didnt 
receive a formal acknowledgement until a few months later. But Barclays final response 
seems to set out its position on Miss Ls complaint and explains what Miss L could do if she 
wanted to pursue the matter further  which is to refer her complaint to this service. Given 
the bank had provided its final say on Miss Ls complaint, I dont think its unreasonable that 
it didnt respond straight away when Miss L got in touch again. 
Miss L is also unhappy that her call back requests were ignored. However, I can see from 
the banks notes that several call attempts were made by the bank in October 2021. So, 
although I cant say for certain that all her call back requests were followed up, Im satisfied 
that the bank made reasonable attempts to call her as requested. 
To summarise, in my opinion, the banks actions in putting right what went wrong is fair, so I 
wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman