DRN-3458420
The complaint
Mr U complains that he was unable to make payments from his debit card as a result of 
system issues at Santander UK Plc (Santander).
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
Mr U wished to make a payment to his Self-Invested Pension Plan (SIPP) on 31 
March 2021.
He tells us he made several attempts to do this via his Santander debit card but 
received error messages.
He spoke with Santander and was advised its systems were down.
Mr U tells us he explained to Santander the payments needed to be made that day to 
meet the tax year-end deadline and asked that he was called back as soon as the 
system was fixed so he could reattempt payments the same day.
Mr U says some days passed before he received a call from Santander, and he 
missed the opportunity to make this payment to his SIPP.
Mr U tells us he is a high rate taxpayer and as a result of not being able to pay all the 
money he wanted into his SIPP he has lost tax relief totalling £4,333.33, and suffered 
considerable inconvenience and stress for which he would like £200 compensation.
In its final response Santander apologised for not calling back as it had promised and 
offered £200 for the stress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Santander didnt agree that it had caused Mr U to miss his year-end SIPP deadline 
and said that Mr U advised that hed made alternative arrangements to fund his 
SIPP.
Mr U wasnt happy with Santanders response and brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator acknowledged that the issues wouldve been frustrating for Mr U but 
noted Santander had explained to Mr U he couldve made payments directly to his 
SIPP provider over the phone. He felt £200 compensation was fair and didnt ask 
Santander to do any more.
Mr U remained unhappy and asked an ombudsman to decide his case and said he 
wished to provide further testimony. 
Our investigator initially asked that any further points or information be provided by 15 March 
2022. Mr U responded promptly with his observations and requested some information from 
our investigator. Our investigator sent the information and asked that any response be 
provided by 22 April 2022. The investigator sent a follow up email noting hed not heard back 
and gave Mr U until 29 April 2022 to send any further comments. Mr U asked for an 
extension until the end of the following week which our investigator agreed to.
On 9 May, in response to further emails from our investigator, Mr U asked that he be given 
until next week (which ended on Friday 20 May 2022) to provide his full points, which again 
our investigator agreed to. No further information has been received and Im proceeding to 
the decision stage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view, and broadly for the same reasons. Ill 
briefly explain why.
I appreciate Mr U has strong feelings on his case, and if I dont mention a particular point or 
piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel the need to reference it to explain my decision. I hope Mr U doesnt take this as a 
discourtesy, its just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.  
There is no dispute Santander were experiencing systems issues causing problems with 
payment processing around the time Mr U attempted to make his payments. And no dispute 
Mr U didnt receive a call back on the day to advise him the problems had been resolved, 
and Santander has apologised for this.
Ive listened to the call Mr U made to Santander when he experienced the payment problems 
and he clearly set out the importance of the payment going through that day, and the 
implications if it didnt for which he would hold Santander responsible. Santanders call 
handler suggested Mr U could phone his pension provider to make a payment over the 
phone. I note Mr U was unsure if the payment had gone through, and he explained the 
consequences of making a further attempt in case he made the payment twice, and the 
additional payment couldnt be refunded. I also note the call handler confirmed the payment 
definitely hadnt gone through, and there was nothing in pending. 
The call handler offered to log a complaint and Mr U suggested he spoke with the complaints 
team personally, and he reiterated the payment needed to be made by 5pm that day. And 
that Santander were liable for the financial impacts and stress caused by its system 
problems.
Mr U then spoke with the complaints team and said hed had confirmation the payment 
hadnt gone through. He restated the implications of the payment not going through or a 
double payment being made. I note the complaint handler highlighted other payment options 
such as a bank transfer or a telephone payment. Mr U said hed wire the money around and 
try to sort it all himself. And later in the conversation said he was going to try other options.
Mr U expressed his dissatisfaction, advising he was a Select customer. He repeated the 
financial implications and said he wanted a senior manager involved and a call back before 
5pm. He added that he wanted £500 for the distress and inconvenience in addition to any 
financial impact and wanted a draft of the complaint response sending to him as he was 
concerned it wouldnt be to the standard required.
In this case Im satisfied that Santander suggested reasonable alternative ways of making 
the urgent payment. And I find it had made it clear to Mr U his payment attempt hadnt gone 
through and couldnt guarantee its system issues would be resolved that day.In respect of Mr Us concern about duplicate payments, if this had happened as a result of 
system errors or incorrect information from Santander, then this service couldve considered 
that complaint. But we cant consider hypothetical situations that didnt happen. 
Santander didnt call Mr U back that day as hed requested. It got in touch on Saturday 3 
April to follow up on the complaint Mr U had made. Mr U said hed had to wire the payment 
through a complex process and asked if he was going to be paid £500. He also said he 
wanted to make it clear it was no thanks to Santander that the payment had been made, and 
it was clear the settlement was £500.
Mr U tells us he made some payments to his SIPP on 31 March but planned to make an 
additional payment via his Santander debit card. And has provided confirmation of the 
amount he paid. So, Im satisfied Mr U had understood there were alternative ways of 
making the payments he wished to make. Whether Mr U paid the total amount he wished to 
make is a moot point given alternative payment methods had been suggested and Mr U had 
advised he would, and indeed did make alternative arrangements.
I appreciate Mr Us frustration with Santander, it didnt provide the payment service it 
shouldve done, causing distress and inconvenience to Mr U. Ive considered the impact on 
Mr U and, in the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied the £200 Santander has offered is 
fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman