DRN-2509232
The complaint
Mr T complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) delayed his payment.
What happened
On 8 June 2020, Mr T called Barclays and told them he was going buy a motorhome for 
£23000 later that day. When he came to make an online payment to the seller, Barclays told 
him the payment wouldnt be released while they did fraud detection checks. He couldnt get 
through to them on the phone, so had to abandon the purchase until the next day, when the 
payment had been made.
Mr T complained. He said hed spent over three hours on the phone to Barclays on the day 
trying to sort it out. Also, hed called them ahead of the purchase to let them know. And he 
said he was left in a vulnerable position as the payment was made the following day without 
authorisation from himself  as they didnt call him back.
Barclays said that the payment had been picked up by its fraud detection system for extra 
security checks to be made. These were made by a different team before releasing the 
payment. They said that they may have called him to do this. Because of the inconvenience 
caused, and the time Mr P had spent on the phone, they offered compensation of £100.
Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. In 
November 2020 she confirmed that Mr P had contacted Barclays ahead of his intended 
purchase on 8 June 2020. Barclays had said in their online note to Mr P that that may 
contact him, but this hadnt happened. But Barclays terms and conditions say that they can 
delay payments to complete further checks. These cannot be bypassed and are in place to 
protect customers. She noted the payment was released the next day. She thought the 
compensation of £100 offered by Barclays was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr P was frustrated. He called Barclays in advance and told them what he 
was going to do. He travelled to pick up his new motorhome. But he couldnt buy it because 
the online payment he tried to do on his tablet wouldnt go through. He couldnt get through 
to Barclays that evening to sort it out. And when he was expecting them to call him about the 
payment, they didnt. So, he was concerned about where his money was and whether he 
could buy the motorhome.
It is the case that all banks, including Barclays, have sophisticated systems for fraud checks. 
These are to protect customers from criminal activity. What happens is that where a 
payment is unusual, or meets certain criteria, it will be flagged for review, usually by a 
specialist team. Unfortunately, this can take some time. And this is what happened in Mr Ps 
case.
Barclays terms and conditions do cover this as they say: we dont
have to follow an (payment) instruction if: it isnt complete or clear, or we dont think it came 
from you or someone authorised to give us the instruction on your behalfwe reasonably 
think that a payment into or out of an account is connected to fraud or any other criminal 
activity, including where funds are being obtained through deceptionWhile we are 
checking that none of the reasons above apply, there might be a delay in getting the 
payment to its destination  even if everything turns out to be fine.
Barclays still wanted to do the fraud checks even though Mr P had called them in advance  
thats up to them if they want to. And they say that they didnt say they would call Mr P, just 
that they may call him.
Mr P says he was concerned that his money was at risk because Barclays didnt call him 
back the following day to get his agreement to the payment. But he had authorised the 
online payment on his tablet the day before, so another form of authorisation wouldnt have 
been needed. 
I can appreciate where Mr P is coming from. But Barclays were doing their reasonable 
checks and didnt do anything wrong here, so I wont be asking them to do anymore. Theyve 
apologised to Mr P for the inconvenience and time he spent on the phone to try to sort the 
payment out - and offered him compensation of £100. I understand he hasnt accepted this 
yet. So, if he wishes to receive this, he should contact Barclays who will arrange to pay it.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman