DRN-1823968
 
The complaint
Mr T and Mrs Cs complaint is that they think they were mis-sold their mortgage in 2003. 
This is because they were advised, alongside a 100% mortgage, to take out additional 
lending to use to consolidate some short-term debts. They have said they were told to 
mislead the lender about their income in order to get the mortgage. In addition, they have 
said they were unaware the adviser worked on a commission basis.
During the course of our investigation Mr T and Mrs C raised some additional matters that 
had not previously been raised with the lender. This included that they were told they could 
have payment holidays but they have been denied when requested. Also, that they would be 
able to have interest rate products throughout, but this has not been possible since the 
mortgage was transferred from the original lender. In addition, they questioned the term of 
the mortgage as they believe it is now due to end a year later than originally planned. 
Mr T and Mrs C questioned when and how the unsecured debt they arranged had been 
combined with the mortgage to all be secured and, they believe, with an extended term for 
the unsecured part.
Landmark Mortgages Limited is now responsible for the mortgage and its sale. I will refer to 
it throughout this document, even where events involved its predecessors.
What happened
In the summer of 2003 Mr T and Mrs C applied for a repayment mortgage to buy a property 
for £110,000. After they completed the application form they changed their minds about the 
property they were buying, the amount they needed to borrow and how they wanted to 
borrow it. The eventual purchase price they paid was £105,000 and they took out a 
mortgage of £89,250 over a term of 25 years. Alongside the mortgage they applied for a 
£25,750 linked unsecured loan over 25 years. A two year fixed interest rate product was 
attached to the mortgage and loan.
At the time Mr T and Mrs C were not married and were both living with relatives. They were 
first time buyers. Mr T was a skilled worker earning £13,000 each year and Mrs C was 
employed as a retail manager with an annual income of £24,000. They had no dependents. 
Mrs C was recorded as having £15,000 of unsecured debt which consisted of a £10,000 loan 
with an end date in 2006 and a £5,000 loan from her employer. No end date was recorded 
for the loan from Mrs Cs employer.
When they signed the application form they also signed a form confirming they had already 
decided what mortgage they wanted before meeting with the mortgage adviser. The 
mortgage offer confirmed For the purposes of the Code of Mortgage Lending Practice, to 
which we subscribe, we have either provided information on the particular mortgage product 
currently available to you or information only on the product that you have selected to enable 
you to make an informed choice of whether you wish to take it. If you require any further information about this product you should contact us before completion of your loan takes 
place.
This mortgage and unsecured loan were paid off at the end of October 2005.
In May 2005 Mrs C contacted Landmark wanting to increase their borrowing. Mr T and 
Mrs C applied for a re-mortgage of £139,560 plus fees, over a term of 23 years. The 
unsecured loan was consolidated into the mortgage at this point. Landmark didnt 
recommend the mortgage; it simply provided information at Mr T and Mrs Cs request. At the 
time they were still employed as they had been in 2003 with the same incomes. However, on 
this application form Mrs Cs income was broken down to show her basic income was 
£19,979 plus £3,164 overtime. 
The mortgage offer was issued on 1 October 2005. It said We have not recommended a 
particular mortgage for you. You must make your own choice whether to accept this 
mortgage offer.
Mr T and Mrs C complained to Landmark. It responded to the complaint by explaining Mr T 
and Mrs C had applied for the mortgage direct and there had been no broker or intermediary 
involved, so no commission was paid. In addition, Landmark said it hadnt provided any 
advice in 2003 when the mortgage and loan had been taken or when Mr T and Mrs C had 
re-mortgaged in 2005. As such, it wasnt responsible for whether the mortgages were 
suitable for them. The complaint was rejected.
Mr T and Mrs C were not happy with the response and they referred their complaint to this 
service. After doing so they added that they had documents from the lender saying their 
mortgage ended in 2027, but it is now 2028. They also said they were told that they could 
keep changing to keep it on a fixed rate, but that had not been the case. Mr T and Mrs C 
have said they had no choice about leaving their mortgage with Landmark when it stopped 
offering fixed rates because Mrs C was about to go on maternity leave.
One of our investigators considered Mr T and Mrs Cs complaint, but didnt recommend it be 
upheld. In addition, he explained that we couldnt consider the concerns about being unable 
to obtain fixed interest rate products until Landmark had been given the opportunity to 
respond to the complaint. That complaint was referred to Landmark. 
As Mr T and Mrs C were not happy with the investigators conclusions, the complaint has 
been referred to me for consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T and Mrs C are concerned about the sale of the mortgage in 2003 because they say 
they were told to do various things by the mortgage adviser, including exaggerating Mrs Cs 
income and consolidate unsecured debts into the mortgage loan. I have considered the 
information available from the time and it doesnt appear that they asked for advice about 
what mortgage to take. The documentation from the time of the sale and the notes from  Mrs 
Cs telephone contact with Landmark, all indicate that Mr T and Mrs C made the decisions 
about what borrowing to ask for and the format of that borrowing. This included the 
unsecured part of the arrangement. That portion of the borrowing increased from the initial 
application and it would appear it did so partially in order to reduce the loan to value of the 
main mortgage and improve the fixed interest rate available to them.It has already been confirmed to Mr T and Mrs C that the actual secured mortgage did not 
meet or exceed the value of the property. However, they are correct that the total amount of 
borrowing they arranged in 2003 was more than equivalent to the value of the property. As I 
have said above, the amount of borrowing they applied for doesnt appear to have been 
recommended by Landmark, so I cant hold it responsible for whether that amount was 
suitable for Mr T and Mrs Cs personal needs and circumstances. Whilst Landmark had to 
ensure the borrowing was affordable that is a different matter from whether it suited Mr T 
and Mrs Cs personal circumstances. I think it also worth commenting that at the time of this 
arrangement many lenders were agreeing lending arrangements that equalled or exceeded 
purchase prices. That lenders were choosing to allow such lending is not something this 
service would comment on as we would not generally seek to interfere with a lenders 
commercial discretion in setting its lending criteria.
As Landmark explained, no commission was paid on the sale of this mortgage. The lender 
paid commission to brokers/third parties selling its mortgages. So Mr T and Mrs Cs point 
about not being told about the adviser working on a commission basis is not one we would 
be able to uphold, as the adviser didnt work on a commission basis, rather he or she was a 
salaried employee.
As for the suggestion that Mr T and Mrs C were told by the adviser to lie about their income 
and exaggerate it; I find this unlikely. The mortgage adviser would know that proof of income 
would be required for the underwriting process, so lying or exaggerating incomes would be 
pointless as it would be discovered very quickly. Proof of income was requested in this case. 
Also, if the income was insufficient to support the mortgage, the application would be 
declined. 
In circumstances where a lender didnt recommend a particular mortgage arrangement, I am 
unable to hold it responsible for the suitability of the mortgage for the consumers and so I am 
unable to uphold Mr T and Mrs Cs complaint about the original 2003 sale.
I have looked into the concern Mr T and Mrs C raised about the term of their mortgage. They 
have said they have documentation indicating the original term of the mortgage was to end 
in 2027, but they are now being told it will end in 2028. The documentation referred to hasnt 
been provided, but having looked at the documentation we have available from 2003 I am 
satisfied the mortgage was set up with a 25 year term ending in 2028. The end date of the 
mortgage arrangements did change slightly when Mr T and Mrs C re-mortgaged in 2005. 
The 2003 mortgage started in that September and the current one started in October 2005, 
so the end date will be slightly later, but by a matter of less than two months. 
Payment holidays were an option under the mortgages Mr T and Mrs C had and have. 
Indeed, they were granted a payment holiday at the end of 2007 for six months. However, 
there are always criteria and conditions linked to such an arrangement being granted. If a 
consumer doesnt meet the criteria at the time they request a payment holiday, a lender 
would have done nothing wrong in declining it.
 
 
 
 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr T and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision 
before 29 June 2020.
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman