DRN-4369430
The complaint
Mr G complains that a car acquired with finance from Black Horse Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2023 Mr G was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Black Horse.
Mr G experienced issues with the cars battery malfunctioning. The supplying dealer agreed 
to a rejection of the car. Mr G returned the car, and the finance agreement was ended. 
Mr G received the following refund:
Deposit/part exchange contribution of £5,710.73, which was less the settlement figure of the 
part exchange and the dealer contribution of £500. 
£4.00 statutory interest on the above
£150 distress and inconvenience
Mr G complained to Black Horse. He was unhappy that he hadnt been refunded the 
promotional voucher amount of £500 which hed used towards the purchase of the car. He 
waws also unhappy that he hadnt been compensated for his consequential losses.
Black Horse didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr G referred it to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that she didnt think Black Horse had 
acted unfairly by not refunding the £500 voucher because this was a dealer contribution and 
not something which Mr G had paid. In relation to Mr Gs consequential losses, the 
investigator explained why she thought Black Horses decision not to compensate Mr G for 
these was fair.
Mr G didnt agree. He said he shouldnt have been let out of pocket in a situation where hed 
been supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr G said the compensation 
hed received was insufficient. In relation to the £500 voucher, Mr G said hed never been 
told that it was a voucher but understood that it was a part exchange incentive offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the car supplied to Mr G wasnt of satisfactory quality. A rejection 
was agreed and the finance agreement has ended. Therefore, I wont be commenting on the 
quality of the car. Instead, Ill focus on whats a fair resolution to Mr Gs complaint, having 
regard to the specific points Mr G has raised.
£500 voucher
Mr G has told this service that he was told by the dealer that he would get an extra £500 off 
the price of the car if he part exchanged. Mr G says that this incentive wasnt mentioned in 
the sales invoice or the finance agreement.
Black Horse has provided a copy of the part exchange invoice. This shows an entry of a 
£500 contribution by the dealer. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the dealer 
contributed £500. Theres nothing to suggest that this contribution was paid by Mr G.
Mr G has said that he wasnt aware of the terms and conditions of the dealer contribution. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions. These say:
If, for any reason, you cancel the purchase of the car and we are unable to return your part 
exchange to you, you will only be entitled to be paid the valuation figure, excluding the 
additional £500 applied by using the voucher.
Even if Mr G wasnt aware of the terms of the dealer contribution, I cant see any basis for 
asking Black Horse to refund the dealer contribution to him. Mr G hasnt paid the £500, and 
hasnt suffered a loss in respect of it, so it isnt money that should be refunded to him.
Because of this, Im unable to say that Black Horse has acted unfairly by not refunding the 
£500 to Mr G.
Consequential losses
Mr G has told this service that he incurred mileage expenses in collecting the car from the 
dealer. Hes said that if he hadnt travelled to collect the car, he wouldve incurred delivery 
costs. I appreciate that the purpose of Mr Gs journey was to collect the car and I understand 
his frustration that the car turned out to be of unsatisfactory quality. I understand why Mr G 
seeks his mileage expenses but Im of the view that this is better approached as part of the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, which I shall comment on later. 
Mr G seeks interest on the amount of funds he was deprived of from 31 March 2023 to 2 
May 2023. I havent seen any evidence to suggest what (if any) rate of interest Mr G was 
getting on those funds prior to using them to purchase the car. Further, its reasonable to 
assume that Mr G intended to use those funds to purchase a vehicle rather than saving the 
money. In other words, he would have used the funds to purchase a vehicle in any event. 
For this reason, Im not persuaded that this can be considered as a consequential loss.
Mr G seeks compensation for the loss of a vehicle suitable for his work requirements. He 
says that he borrowed a family members car which wasnt suitable for his needs. He says 
that if hed hired a suitable car this would have cost £1873. Mr G says the only reason he 
didnt hire a car is because he thought his refund would be sorted out quickly. I appreciate 
that the car which Mr G borrowed from a family member may not have been what he would 
have chosen himself for his needs. Again, I think this is better approached as part of the 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. Because Mr G didnt hire a car, Im unable to 
consider a refund of expenses for or equivalent to car hire costs.
Mr G seeks compensation for the time hes spent trying to resolve the issues which occurred 
with the car, and for the time hes spent reading consumer legislation. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that there was unreasonable delay by Black Horse in resolving the 
matter, nor have I seen anything to suggest that Mr G was required to read the relevant 
legislation. I appreciate that he chose to do so and I understand that this may have taken up 
some of his time. Ive considered this as part of the compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mr G has said that he incurred a cost of £49.72 to change his insurance when he purchased 
the car. Ive reviewed the available evidence but although I can see a debit from Mr Gs bank 
account which he says relates to the insurance, I havent seen evidence that the insurance 
was changed. There isnt enough evidence for me to require Black Horse to refund this.
I understand that this has been a frustrating experience for Mr G and its clear that hes 
suffered a degree of inconvenience as a result of being supplied with a car which wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Ive taken into account the fact that he collected the car, that he had to 
arrange alternative transport and that he had to spend time trying to resolve things. Having 
considered everything, Im of the view that the amount of compensation already offered by 
Black Horse is fair and reasonable, and in line with what this service would award. Because 
of this, I wont be asking Black Horse to pay further compensation.
Finally, and for clarification, although Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint, Black Horse has 
agreed that it should have paid 8% interest on the total refund of £5611.73, and not just on 
the deposit made by Mr G. Black Horse has confirmed to this service that it will arrange for a 
further payment in respect of this interest to be made to Mr G upon closure of this case. For 
the voidance of doubt, Black Horse should calculate the outstanding interest and pay this to 
Mr G now.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman