DRN-1699127
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In 2001, Mr and Mrs R took out a regular premium PPI policy on a mortgage. The policy was 
sold in a meeting. 
The policy was in Mr Rs name only and it wouldve paid a monthly benefit that wouldve 
more than covered Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage repayments for up to 12 months for each 
successful accident, sickness or unemployment claim Mr R made.
Mr R says he had very good sick pay, savings, an enhanced redundancy package and death 
in service benefits. So he says he didnt need the PPI. He also says Lloyds planted the seed 
of getting a PPI policy in his mind by introducing it into the mortgage discussions and so 
pressured him into thinking it would be better to have the policy than not.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Rs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs R 
disagree and so their complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them but I hope the reasons Im about to give them help them to understand why 
Ive reached this conclusion.
I think Mr and Mrs R accept they agreed to the PPI. And I can see their signed mortgage 
application form has been ticked to say they want PPI  when there was an equally clear 
option to tick to say they didnt want it. They also signed a separate PPI application form and 
direct debit instruction. 
Mr R says the fact that Lloyds introduced PPI into the mortgage application conversation 
was enough to stimulate a conversation between him and his wife about their circumstances. 
And he says this was then enough to make them feel it would be prudent to ensure they had 
a fall-back if anything was to happen to Mr R as the main earner in the household. So he 
says the decision to take the policy was based more on fear rather than need. 
Insurance policies are designed to protect against the unexpected. And Mr and Mrs R were 
about to take on a big financial commitment for a significant period of time. Apart from Mr 
and Mrs Rs recollections  which are from a long time ago  I dont have any records of how 
the PPI was presented to them. But I think it would be reasonable for Lloyds to ask them to 
think about how they would pay their mortgage if something went wrong and to introduce PPI into the conversation as an option they could consider to help deal with it.  Ive seen 
nothing to make me think Lloyds placed unfair pressure on them to buy the policy.
Mr Rs main complaint, though, is that he didnt need the policy because of his and his wifes 
personal circumstances, which Ive already described. Lloyds says it recommended the PPI 
to them, so it needed to make sure it was suitable for them. From the information Ive got, 
Im not sure what steps Lloyds took to do this. But, from what Mr and Mrs R say of their 
circumstances at the time and from what Ive seen of the policy details that are likely to have 
applied to them (the policy Lloyds has given us post-dates the sale slightly), I think it was 
suitable, despite the workplace benefits and savings Mr and Mrs R say they had. 
Mr R says he wouldve got six months full pay and then six months half pay if he was off 
work sick. He also says he wouldve got an enhanced redundancy package if he lost his job, 
that he and his wife had savings and that his wife wouldve got his death in service benefit if 
hed died.
But the PPI wouldve more than covered Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage repayments for up to 12 
months if Mr R was off work sick  so for much longer than Mr Rs full sick pay lasted. It 
would also have paid out on top of Mr Rs sick pay, meaning this could be used for other 
things if needed. And he couldve made multiple claims on the policy if hed needed to. The 
policy wouldve paid out in the same way if Mr R lost his job, meaning his redundancy pay 
could be used to meet other necessary living expenses.  And, as our adjudicator has said, 
Mr Rs death in service benefit didnt offer the same type of cover as PPI and I dont think it 
made it unsuitable.
And I should also say that Mr R was eligible for the policy and, from what Ive seen of his 
circumstances, wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions and limitations. So there was 
nothing in these areas to make it unsuitable for them. And it also seems the policy was 
affordable.
I understand Mr and Mrs Rs argument now that they didnt need the policy. But that 
argument is made with the benefit of hindsight. And from what Ive seen, and as Ive set out 
above, I think they agreed to it at the time and it was suitable for them. And I say it was 
suitable for them especially bearing in mind that their home was at risk if they fell behind with 
their mortgage repayments. So I think they were prudent in the decision they made to protect 
against this if Mr R fell ill or lost his job, even with the workplace benefits Mr R describes.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for them, Lloyds also had to give Mr and Mrs R 
enough clear information about it for them to be able to decide, in an informed way, if they 
wanted it. I dont know what steps Lloyds took to do this and its possible some things 
werent explained as clearly to Mr and Mrs R as they shouldve been. But, as Ive said, I 
think they agreed to the cover and I think it was suitable for them  and so clearer 
information, had it been needed, is likely only to have confirmed this to them and is unlikely 
to have made them change their minds. 
So I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it shouldve told Mr and Mrs R about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs R, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think that is fair in this case.As a final point, I should also say that although, as Mr R points out, Lloyds got a high level of 
commission for selling them the PPI policy, I dont think this means the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman