DRN-3236529
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) didnt tell him about the changes 
to its overdraft pricing structure and says this caused him financial difficulty.
What happened
Mr D complained to Santander after he realised he had been charged fees for using his 
account. This was following his account being changed. Mr D said he wasnt told the account 
would be changing and the extra cost would make his overdraft more difficult to repay. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint and said it provided Mr D with notification his account 
would be changing. It refunded the fees Mr D had paid in January 2020 as a gesture of 
goodwill. As Mr D was dissatisfied, he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ds complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that Santander 
ought to have realised that Mr D was experiencing financial difficulty by February 2020 and 
so shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. 
Santander didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think Santander acted unfairly when it 
started charging Mr D for using his overdraft from December 2019, after it changed his 
account. Looking at the statements of Mr Ds account, the account has never had a credit 
balance since it was opened in 2016. So when Santander changed the account type and 
started charging Mr D for using the overdraft, it ought to have been clear that Mr D was in no 
position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time, given his use 
of the account since it had been opened and as the overdraft limit had nearly been met. 
By this point, Mr D had got in contact with Santander to complain he wasnt told he would be 
charged fees and to explain he was having difficulty with his finances and that the charges 
being added were making this worse. In these circumstances, Santander ought to have 
offered assistance and treated Mr D with forbearance rather than add even more interest, 
fees and charges to his overdraft. I accept that Santander did refund the fees for January 
2020. But as it started charging again without establishing that Mr Ds position had improved 
and that he was able to manage, I dont think that this went far enough or it means that 
Santander acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr D ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Santander didnt 
treat Mr D fairly and he lost out because of what Santander did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
In reaching my conclusions, Ive thought about what Santander has said about the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account, its process and 
any actions it may have taken. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I remain satisfied 
that it wasnt fair to continue adding charges to Mr Ds account from February 2020.
Fair compensation  what Santander needs to do to put things right for Mr D
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for Santander to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ds current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the account change in December 2019 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Santander should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment plan. 
Mr D is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with Santander to reach 
a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Mr Ds credit file, Santander should reflect what would have been recorded 
had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in December 
2019. Santander can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mr D over 
his limit.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr D along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
Santander should remove any adverse information from Mr Ds credit file. 
Santander can also reduce Mr Ds overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Santander should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman