DRN-2484105
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mr S and Mr Y hold with Mortgage 
Express (ME). They say ME provided the mortgage in in the knowledge that the property 
was worth less than the amount being borrowed, and that it failed in its duty to ensure the 
property was a suitable investment for them. 
To settle the complaint, Mr S and Mr Y want to be reimbursed the deposit they put down, 
along with the mortgage payments theyve made. The complaint was made after ME asked 
them to pay for the property to be revalued due to concerns it may be subject to negative 
equity. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Mr Y applied for the mortgage on the advice and recommendation of a third-party 
broker; the broker (not ME) was responsible for ensuring the mortgage it recommended was 
suitable for Mr S and Mr Ys needs and circumstances. 
If they wish to complain that the mortgage was mis-sold, Mr S and Mr Y would need to 
approach the broker separately. If they did that, and werent satisfied with the outcome, Mr S 
and Mr Y would not then be able to refer that complaint to this service; the selling of BTL 
mortgages is not a regulated activity and doesnt fall within our remit.
MEs decision to lend does fall within our remit; as part of making that decision, ME arranged 
for the property to be valued. In doing this, ME had a duty to Mr S and Mr Y to ensure the 
valuer it instructed was suitably qualified. Provided it met that duty, ME was entitled to rely 
on the valuers professional opinion when deciding whether and how much to lend. 
Im satisfied ME discharged its duty to appoint a suitably-qualified valuer; the valuer was a 
member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. The valuer was employed by a 
third-party firm, independent from ME, over which this service has no jurisdiction. 
Ive no power to consider whether the valuation was flawed in any way. My remit is limited to 
the actions of ME. The valuation was solely for MEs benefit; its purpose was to enable ME 
to decide whether the property Mr S and Mr Y were buying was suitable security for the 
money theyd asked to borrow. For the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied ME was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the valuation when it decided to provide the mortgage.
There was no obligation on MEs part to provide Mr S and Mr Y with a copy of the valuation. 
Nor was there any duty on MEs part to ensure the property was a suitable BTL investment 
for Mr S and Mr Y; as BTL investors, that responsibility was theirs and theirs alone. 
As to the current situation, ME has legitimate concerns about the equity position. Given the 
risk that poses to it as a lender, its quite reasonable for ME to ask Mr S and Mr Y to cover 
the cost of a fresh valuation  provided it too is carried out by a suitably-qualified person. 
The alternative, if Mr S and Mr Y wont agree to do so, is for ME to use a desk valuation 
(that is, one made by applying indexation to the historic valuation). A desk valuation isnt 
necessarily as accurate as a fresh report carried out contemporaneously, but ME can still 
use it when deciding what steps it might take to protect its exposure.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman