DRN-4363635
The complaint
Mr D complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited (Skyfire) incorrectly recorded a fault 
claim resulting in an increased premium, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr D reported an incident when driving that wasnt his fault. He says Skyfire 
incorrectly recorded this as a fault claim. When he obtained a new insurance policy in 
December his insurance premium increased to £14,212.80. Mr D says this is because of the 
incorrect information Skyfire recorded. 
In its complaint response in January 2022 Skyfire says it had made a mistake. It amended 
the claim to non-fault, notification only and paid Mr D £200 compensation.  
Mr D contacted his insurer to ask it to review his premium. It told him that hed disclosed the 
claim as non-fault so there was no amendment to make. It didnt provide a refund. Mr D 
thought Skyfire was responsible for the high cost of his new premium and complained to the 
business again.
In its final complaint response in February 2023 Skyfire says it sent notification of the correct 
claim closure to allow Mr Ds new insurer to amend its records and premium. This was done 
in January 2022. The business didnt uphold this complaint. 
Mr D didnt think hed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says Skyfire had resolved matters by amending 
the incorrect record in January 2022. He says Mr Ds subsequent insurer had recorded the 
claim as non-fault. This meant his premium hadnt been impacted by the incorrect 
information Skyfire initially recorded on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) 
database. 
Mr D disagreed. He says he was in Turkey and had to arrange insurance to drive back to the 
UK. Because of the fault claim record he wasnt able to obtain insurance from general 
insurers. This meant he had to use a specialist insurer which cost him a lot more. He says 
he wasnt aware of Skyfires error at the time he took out the new cover. 
Because he disagreed with our investigator, Mr D asked for an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. Im sorry to disappoint him but Ill 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Theres no dispute that the incident Mr D reported in October 2021 was incorrectly recorded 
by Skyfire as a fault claim. This was corrected on 12 January 2022. Ive seen the amended 
claim record which correctly shows the claim status as, Notification Only. It also says, 
NCD allowed. This means there has been no deduction of Mr Ds no claims discount as a 
result of this incident. This is what Id expect to see.
Mr Ds policy with Skyfire was due to run from September 2021 to September 2022. 
However, he changed his car in November 2021 and used a different insurer to provide the 
cover he needed. During a conversation with our investigator Mr D confirmed this policy with 
the new insurer was cancelled. He doesnt remember why. He then tried to take out a new 
policy whilst he was in a different country so that he could drive back. 
Mr D told our investigator that he took out the new policy for £14,212.80 using a comparison 
website. He says he didnt disclose the claim from October 2021 as this wasnt his fault. 
Based on what Mr D says the claim from October 2021 didnt have an impact on the quotes 
he obtained, as it wasnt declared on his application. If when validating the policy 
undisclosed claims were identified, this may have altered an insurers risk assessment and 
potentially increase the premium or result in no cover being offered. But Mr D says he didnt 
declare this information.  
In February 2022 Mr Ds new insurer told him he disclosed the claim from October 2021 as 
non-fault. So, when he asked it to amend the claim record and his premium, after Skyfire 
had updated the CUE database, it explained there was no change to be made. 
Ive thought about Mr Ds comments that he wasnt able to obtain quotes from general 
insurers because of the incorrectly recorded fault claim. But he says he didnt report the 
claim on the comparison site, as he knew he wasnt at fault. His new insurer provides a 
different account. It says the claim was reported but as non-fault. But in either of these 
scenarios the October 2021 fault claim wasnt a consideration. So, Mr Ds application for 
insurance wasnt impacted by Skyfires mistake.  
In Skyfires final complaint response it says Mr D was able to obtain insurance for £2,937.07 
in December 2022. But it says it hasnt seen proof of the vehicle insured or the statement of 
fact that was provided. It says various factors are considered and premiums are generated 
based on the information provided. Skyfire says it isnt responsible for the increases in 
premiums Mr D has claimed. 
I can see from our investigators conversations with Mr D that he intends raising a complaint 
against the insurer that cancelled his insurance policy. It was discussed that this may have 
impacted on the premium he was offered by his subsequent insurer. However, my decision 
is based on Skyfires actions. Im not able to consider the involvement of a third-party insurer 
in my decision here.
Having considered all of this Im not persuaded that Mr D has been financially disadvantaged 
as a result of Skyfires error when recording the claim in October 2021. The indication is that 
the claim wasnt a consideration at the time he applied for quotes via the comparison 
website. Id expect Skyfire to amend the record swiftly when it became aware of its error, 
which it did. I think its fair that it offered £200 compensation. But I dont think Mr D has 
shown that Skyfire caused him to pay more for the car he insured in December. 
Mr D was aware of the mistake in January 2022 when the CUE record was amended. He 
couldve sought alternative insurance at this point. However, I cant see that he did this, or 
that the issue with the claim record from October 2021 was the reason for the increased 
premium. For these reasons I cant reasonably ask Skyfire to do anymore to resolve Mr Ds complaint.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman