DRN-3970643
Complaint
Mr A has complained about a loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) 
provided to him. He says that the loan was irresponsibly provided to him.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr A with a loan for £2,000.00 in November 2021. This loan was 
due to be repaid in 24 monthly instalments of just under £130. One of our adjudicators 
reviewed what Mr A and 118 118 Money had told us. And she thought that 118 118 Money 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr A unfairly. So she didnt recommend that Mr As 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr As complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. Id like 
to explain why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr A could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr As application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr A could 
afford to make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr A has said he 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr A and 118 118 Money have said. 
118 118 Money has provided an output of the income and expenditure information recorded 
at the time of Mr As application as well as a record of the results of its credit searches.           
118 118 Money calculations appear to show that the monthly payments were affordable for 
Mr A and its credit searches appear to show that Mr A had relatively small amounts of 
existing debt. But while this was the case the credit searches also showed that Mr A had 
significant previous difficulties with credit.
So, in these circumstances, I would have expected 118 118 Money to find out a bit more 
about Mr As financial position before agreeing to provide him with this loan. Mr A has 
provided us with further information on his circumstances at the time. But having considered 
this information there isnt anything within it which clearly demonstrates that the loan were 
unaffordable. Indeed, Id go as far as saying that when Mr As non-discretionary expenditure 
is deducted from his income, it shows that the monthly loan payments were affordable. 
In these circumstances, I dont think that 118 118 Money carrying out further checks on       
Mr As financial position would have led to it declining his application for this loan. As this is 
the case, I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr A 
 the available information and evidence provided doesnt demonstrate that proportionate 
checks would have shown this loan to be unaffordable. 
So overall I dont think that 118 118 Money treated Mr A unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr A  especially as he says hes had other complaints upheld. But I 
hope hell understand the reasons for the decision Ive reached in this particular case and 
that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr As complaint, I would remind 118 118 Money of its obligation 
to exercise forbearance and due consideration should Mr A be experiencing difficulty and it 
choose to collect payments from him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman