DRN-2556520
The complaint
Mr T has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with a 
claim under his home insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr T found a leak in his home. So, he contacted his insurance broker to make a claim. The 
broker passed on the claim to RSA. RSA accepted the claim.
RSA asked Mr T some underwriting questions via the broker. Mr T objected to being asked 
these questions, as he thought RSA should have asked them when he took out the policy.
The leak remained ongoing and RSA appointed a contractor to deal with the issue. However, 
due to a delay in the contractor contacting Mr T and then not being able to visit for several 
days after that, RSA said the broker could arrange a contractor. A plumber and an electrician 
then visited, but Mr T said the electrician carried out temporary repairs but nothing further 
was done at that stage. Mr T then told the broker that he no longer wanted to pursue the 
claim. The broker then sent Mr T an invoice for the contractors who had visited.
Mr T complained to RSA. RSA investigated what happened, but after eight weeks informed 
Mr T that it wasnt able to respond so said he could refer his complaint to this service.
When Mr T complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said 
it was reasonable for RSA to ask the underwriting questions, but that there were some 
avoidable delays in dealing with the claim. He also said RSA should cover the costs of the 
contractor, as it had previously agreed to do so, and pay £100 compensation.
As Mr T did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has complained about both RSA and the broker. This decision will only consider the 
actions of RSA. Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will explain why.
Ive looked at how RSA handled the claim. RSA told this service that its normal practice was 
to respond to the broker within 48 hours, which it said it did. Ive seen the email the broker 
sent to RSA. RSA replied to it six days later, which included a weekend. So, I think this was 
outside of the normal practice described by RSA, so there was a delay here.
Mr T then took a few days to respond to the underwriting questions, but when he did so, 
RSA appointed a contractor within 24 hours, which I think was reasonable. The contractor 
should have contacted Mr T within 24 hours of being appointed, but four days later still 
hadnt made contact. So, I think there was a further delay at this stage.
RSA then said the broker could appoint a contractor to visit, which it did. I think that was a 
reasonable way to resolve the situation. However, as the contractor wasnt appointed by 
RSA, any issues related to its actions werent RSAs responsibility, so I havent considered 
whether there were any delays after that point. But, I think there were avoidable delays in 
how RSA handled the claim. These being the time taken by RSA to respond when the broker 
registered the claim and the issues with the contractor not contacting Mr T. Given Mr T had 
an ongoing leak, I can understand he was concerned that this wasnt being dealt with more 
urgently.
Im aware that Mr T didnt think he should have been asked the underwriting questions. As 
part of that, he said he thought it was a potential tactic by RSA to try and reject his claim. I 
think its reasonable for an insurer to ask questions as part of assessing a claim and RSA 
has said its standard practice for it to ask underwriting questions at this stage. RSA accepted 
the claim and I havent seen any evidence that it tried to reject it.
Mr T closed the claim before it was fully resolved. RSA hadnt appointed the contractors that 
visited and also wasnt sent any invoices following the visit to consider. So, I dont think RSA 
was required to take any action at this. However, Im aware that RSA has said it would 
review the invoice from the contractor if Mr T wanted to submit it. I think that is a reasonable 
offer from RSA in the circumstances. It is for Mr T to decide whether he wants RSA to do so.
So, thinking about all of the above, I uphold the part of the complaint about the delays. 
However, I dont uphold the part about the underwriting questions. Ive also thought about 
whether RSA should pay Mr T compensation. I think RSA should pay £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience caused by the delays in its handling of the claim, particularly 
as this meant it took longer than it should have for a contractor to visit to deal with the 
ongoing leak. 
  
Putting things right
RSA should pay Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delays.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. I 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to:
Pay Mr T £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman