DRN-3678650
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with how Santander UK Plc (Santander) handled their request 
to port their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G held a fixed-rate mortgage with Santander, which they were tied into until 
2 June 2024. 
Mr and Mrs G found a new home they wished to purchase, so they applied to increase their 
mortgage in October 2021. They intended to port the mortgage to the new home after this. 
Mr and Mrs Gs application was not approved because it came to light Mr G had a County 
Court Judgement (CCJ) on his credit file. There were also some concerns about the 
affordability of the mortgage because their credit files showed Mr and Mrs G had some third-
party loans. 
The affordability issue fell away because Mr and Mrs G were flexible about how much they 
needed to borrow. They said they had enough in equity and savings that they could still 
purchase the property, but they would need, at least, their existing mortgage amount to do 
renovations. 
Mr and Mrs G say they spent a lot of time trying to get the CCJ removed because the 
mortgage adviser didnt tell them its possible to appeal Santanders decision if the amount is 
under £300  which at £197  it was. Mr and Mrs G think they should have been told it would 
help if the related fine had been paid as well. 
Mr and Mrs G have also complained that they werent told they couldnt port their mortgage 
with a CCJ. They say they wouldn't have exchanged on their existing home if they knew they 
would never be able to port their mortgage because they wanted to avoid paying the early 
repayment charge (ERC), which was approximately £10,000. They had since arranged a 
court date to have the CCJ removed, but this wasnt due to take place until 4 July 2022, 
which was beyond the five-month time limit they would have had to port the mortgage. 
Santander looked into Mr and Mrs Gs concerns and agreed that they should have been 
informed they wouldnt be able to port the mortgage with a CCJ in a call the took place on 
12 November 2021. But they felt that Mr and Mrs G had enough prior knowledge to think any 
application for borrowing might not be successful given one had already been declined 
previously and they had been told that any future borrowing would be subject to checks. 
Santander offered Mr and Mrs G £250 to compensate them for the information they werent 
given during the call, but said it wasnt responsible for the ERC they had to pay.  
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Gs concerns but thought the offer Santander had 
already made was appropriate in the circumstances. As Mr and Mrs G disagreed, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Gs complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain 
why.
Mr and Mrs G complain the mortgage adviser didnt tell them its possible to appeal 
Santanders decision not to lend if the CCJ amount is under £300 or that it would help if the 
fine was paid off. Ive thought about this carefully and I appreciate Mr and Mrs G may have 
wanted to know this information sooner, but I dont think it would have had any bearing on 
the outcome. 
I say this because, while appealing Santanders decision might have helped their application 
to increase their borrowing, they still couldnt have ported their mortgage with the CCJ 
remaining on Mr Gs credit file. My understanding is that the only reason Mr and Mrs G 
required additional borrowing was so they could port their mortgage. So, if the mortgage 
adviser didnt mention this option to them, I think its more likely than not because they didnt 
think it would benefit Mr and Mrs G to do so at that point in time  the greater need would 
have been to have the CCJ removed which is what they were advised to pursue. Then, they 
could look to appeal the previous decision or submit a new application when viable.
Mrs G contacted Santander on 12 November 2021 to discuss what happens when you sell a 
property but do not complete on the purchase of a new property at the same time. Ive 
listened to the call and Mrs G told the call handler they were planning on using the existing 
mortgage, equity and savings to purchase the new property. The call handler confirmed 
Mr and Mrs G could port the mortgage within five months of redeeming it and that, in this 
scenario, the ERC would be refunded. The information Mrs G was given was correct up until 
this point.
But, further on in the call, Mrs G explained that an application had been declined because 
Mr G had a CCJ on his credit file. Mrs G specifically said her concern was that if the 
mortgage was paid off and then there was a delay in purchasing a new property, that 
Santander may not let them borrow the mortgage amount again because of the CCJ. The 
call handler told Mrs G if they didnt borrow anymore funds, they would still be able to port 
their existing mortgage product even if an application for additional borrowing had been 
declined. 
The information the call handler provided wasnt strictly incorrect, but they should have 
highlighted that Mr and Mrs G wouldnt be able to port the mortgage if the CCJ was still in 
place. So, I agree with Mr and Mrs G on this point. That means I have to think about what 
actions Mr and Mrs G would have taken if they had been given the correct information. 
Mr and Mrs G exchanged on their existing home within seven days of the above call  on 
19 November 2021. Mr and Mrs G say that they wouldnt have done so if they knew they 
couldnt port their mortgage. And that this nearly left them homeless. Ive thought about this carefully, but I dont think Mr and Mrs G would have acted differently. 
Mr and Mrs G were always going to sell their property before they could purchase the new 
home. And in some of the calls Ive listened to, they explained they could afford to buy the 
new home with the equity and savings they had, and the mortgage would be needed to help 
them renovate. As part of these conversations, they mentioned they intended to stay with 
relatives while renovations were completed. Mr and Mrs G were already going to need 
alternative accommodation for a few weeks before they could purchase their new home and 
they intended to stay elsewhere for an even longer period while they did renovation works. 
So, I dont think they were at risk of being homeless as a result of this one call.
Ultimately, Mr and Mrs G needed to decide whether they wanted to risk losing their buyers 
and the new property they wanted to buy or forfeit the ERC. They are saying they wouldnt 
have forfeited the ERC, but I think Mr and Mrs G would more likely than not have proceeded 
with the sale of their home. 
I say this because Mrs G was eventually told in a call on 23 November 2021 that it wouldnt 
be possible to port the mortgage with a CCJ. Mr and Mrs G chose to proceed with the sale 
knowing this information. If Mr and Mrs G were worried about being homeless or paying the 
ERC, they could still have pulled out but chose not to. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G may have had to pay some fees to pull out of the exchange, and I 
cant be certain those fees would have been less than the ERC  although in most cases 
they would be less. So, I think Mr and Mrs G chose to pay the ERC and already expected to 
stay with relatives for a period of time before they could move into a new home. So, I dont 
think Santander can be held responsible for the ERC or for any risk of them being homeless.
In summary, I empathise with Mr and Mrs G, but I think they were given the correct 
information that their priority was to have the CCJ removed. Mr and Mrs G were aware the 
CCJ wouldnt be removed before they needed to purchase the new property. And they 
decided to proceed with the sale of their property after they became aware they wouldnt be 
able to port their mortgage with a CCJ. Although Mr and Mrs G could have been made 
aware of this sooner, I dont think Santander is responsible for the ERC or any risk of them 
becoming homeless.
I agree that Santander could have communicated some things better and I think it was 
appropriate for Santander to offer compensation for this. Santander has already paid £250 
which I think is fair in the circumstances, so I make no further award.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman