DRN-2057077
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lynden Ltd, trading as FindYourPPI (FYP) didnt adequately represent 
him in his payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In mid-2019, Mr P instructed FYP to represent him in a claim for mis-sold PPI against a 
lender. FYP contacted the lender to find out if Mr P had held PPI with it. 
In response, the lender told FYP that it required Mr P to go into a branch to verify his identity 
before the enquiry could be logged. FYP sent Mr P a letter dated 9 August 2019 informing 
him of what he needed to do.
The lender doesnt have a branch close to where Mr P lives, and he has mobility issues. He 
planned to visit the branch near a hospital when he went in for his next appointment in 
November. But Mr Ps hospital appointment was cancelled, so he delayed going into the 
branch until January 2020.
In April 2020, Mr P contacted FYP for an update on his claim. FYP told him his case had 
been closed. It had received a letter from the lender dated 3 February 2020, saying that it 
would no longer consider Mr Ps PPI complaint. The information it had requested in July 
2019 hadnt been supplied and the PPI deadline had now passed.
Mr P made a complaint to FYP. He felt that FYP hadnt done enough to represent his 
interests. He didnt think FYP should have allowed the lender to reject his claim because of a 
requirement that FYP had told him wasnt usual. He thought FYP should have asked the 
lender to support its request for information to verify his identity. 
FYP said it was satisfied it had acted appropriately. It was the lenders policy to request 
identification information and it was the lender who had asked for it, not FYP. It couldnt 
respond to Mr Ps statement that he had provided the identification documents to the lender 
as it is a separate company.
Mr P remained unhappy, so he asked our service to consider his complaint. Our investigator 
looked into his concerns but didnt think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
FYP had acted unfairly. The lender had requested information to confirm Mr Ps identity. She 
didnt think FYP could be held responsible for the lenders internal processes and 
procedures. FYP had explained what Mr P needed to do in a timely manner and it wasnt 
something it could have done on his behalf.
FYP might have delayed sending Mr P a copy of the letter from the lender dated February 
2020. But our investigator didnt think this caused an impact to Mr Ps PPI claim.
Mr P disagreed with our investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr P has told us hes also brought a complaint against the lender to the financial 
ombudsman service. But I will only be considering FYPs actions in this decision.
Id like to reassure Mr P that I have considered all of his comments, even if I havent 
responded to each of them individually. Some of these relate to whether the lender required 
the identification information it had asked for. Mr P has referred to money laundering 
regulations and the lenders safeguarding policy.
I appreciate Mr P feels FYP should have challenged the lender when it asked for information 
to confirm Mr Ps identity. But I dont think this was necessary or appropriate. The lender was 
unlikely to have shared any information relating to Mr Ps claim until it had received the proof 
of identification it had asked for. I also havent seen anything to show me that Mr P made 
FYP aware that he would have difficulty providing this at the time. So, I think it was 
reasonable for FYP to pass on the lenders request to Mr P.
FYPs letter of 9 August, clearly sets out to Mr P what he needed to do next including going 
into a lenders branch and bringing in the enclosed paperwork and necessary proof of 
identity.
Mr P says that when he received the letter, he decided he would wait for things to take their 
course. He understood the Financial Conduct Authority had issued guidelines stating what 
the lender needed to do next and the response it should take. If it raised the issue of 
identification again, he would address it then. He says he sent FYP a letter to let it know this 
was what he was doing but FYP doesnt have a record of this and Mr P didnt keep a copy.
Without evidence to show me that Mr P made FYP aware that he didnt intend to follow its 
instructions, I dont think it would be fair for me to say FYP should have done anything 
further. 
Mr P says he provided proof of his identity on 21 January 2020. But he didnt hear anything 
further from FYP until he chased for an update in April 2020.  FYPs records show it received 
letter from the lender (dated 3 February 2020) on 21 February. But it didnt make Mr P aware 
of this until after hed contacted FYP in April. FYP says it was dealing with a backlog and 
difficulties relating to lockdown at the time. 
There might have been a delay in letting Mr P know that the lender wasnt going to consider 
Mr Ps PPI claim. But I dont think this is likely to have had much impact on the claim itself. 
The letter gave Mr P six months to refer his complaint to the financial ombudsman service, 
so he still had several months to do this. 
Mr P has questioned why FYP didnt take any action in response to the letter the lender sent 
in February. In an email of 9 April 2020, FYP offered to forward evidence that Mr P had 
completed the verification process on 21 January to the lender, if he was able to provide 
any. So, I think FYP was willing to help Mr P pursue his PPI claim. In the same email FYP 
explained that the lender wouldnt take phone calls from a third party and suggested Mr P 
contact it directly about the status of the claim. I think this was reasonable advice.
 
I appreciate this situation is frustrating for Mr P, who feels that the lender didnt need him to 
verify his identity to begin looking into his PPI claim. He also wasnt expecting the lender to close his claim if he didnt provide this within a certain timeframe. But having considered 
everything, I think FYP has acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman