DRN-4070566
The complaint
Mrs D has a stocks and shares ISA with the iWeb Share Dealing Service, operated by 
Halifax Share Dealing Limited. She complains that failures on the part of iWeb played a part 
in delaying a transfer from an ISA she held with another provider, preventing her from 
trading as she wanted, so incurring her a loss.
Shes also made a complaint against the other provider, which has been dealt with under a 
separate refence.
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint will be familiar to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. Rather, Ill briefly recap the key points, then focus on giving reasons for reaching 
my decision.
In August 2020 Mrs D instigated a transfer of holdings and cash to her iWeb ISA from 
an ISA held with another provider. 
The process was delayed, and she raised a complaint, initially with the other 
provider, but then later also with iWeb. This was because information obtained while 
investigating the other providers actions suggested iWeb had failed to send an 
acceptance email as part of the transfer process. As such it seemed it may have 
been partly responsible for the delay.
Our investigator considered that the matter, looking at the actions of both providers, 
and in respect of iWeb concluded that it was most likely it had failed to send the initial 
acceptance. 
As such, he felt it should share equal responsibility for the compensation he 
considered reasonable in the circumstances  an investment loss based on the 
transfer delay having prevented Mrs D from investing in Tesla stock when she 
wanted to, plus an element of compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. 
iWeb didnt accept the investigators view. It said, in brief, that it had fulfilled its 
obligations in respect of the transfer by contacting the other provider regularly 
throughout the process. It was satisfied the initial acceptance email had been sent, 
albeit its records were limited because the member of staff whod sent it was no 
longer employed by iWeb. 
The investigator considered iWebs comments but wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. 
So, the matter was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I set out my reasons for reaching a different 
conclusion to that reached by the investigator. In part, I said: 
iWeb has provided a timeline that shows various actions it performed in relation to the
transfer. This starts with the transfer being logged on 13 August 2020 and continues
throughout that month and into September 2020, where it records an acceptance email
being issued on 7 September 2020.
iWeb has said that its unable to provide a copy of this email because it was sent from an
employees personal work email address (in other words, not a group mailbox) and that the
employee has since left the business. Given the time thats passed since the events in
question, this strikes me as a plausible explanation.
iWebs timeline also includes a note reissued acceptance at broker request dated
1 October 2020. For this entry iWeb has been able to provide a corresponding email, this
time sent from a group mailbox. And this reissued acceptance appears to be a copy of the 7
September 2020 email, appended with the note This was originally sent to you 07/09.
The other provider has said that it didnt receive the 7 September 2020 email. Hence, why its
own timeline shows it telling iWeb a few weeks later, on 30 September 2020, that it hadnt
been received, which presumably wouldve been what prompted the reissue on 1 October
2020.
Its difficult to say with any certainty what happened with these communications. But looking
specifically at the actions of iWeb, I find Im unable to conclude that it acted incorrectly. I
think the evidence supports, on balance, that its more likely than not iWeb did what it
shouldve done.
I recognise my provisional decision in respect of iWeb will come as a disappointment to
Mrs D, particularly in light of my findings regarding her other complaint against the other
provider. But I dont think iWeb should be held responsible for any delays in the transfer
process, so it follows that I dont require it to take any further action. I note it offered Mrs D
£75 compensation for not responding sooner to her requests for information. I make no
finding on that issue and simply leave it to Mrs D to accept the offer should she wish to do
so.
iWeb responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mrs D made further comprehensive submissions to support her position, which can be 
broadly summarised as: 
The email of 7 September 2020 on which Id relied in making my findings had not 
been provided as evidence by iWeb. Instead, it had only been referred to in the email 
of 1 October 2020, with the absence of the header information that would provide 
confirmation of it being sent, and when. 
The other provider had confirmed that the 7 September 2020 email had not been 
received from iWeb.
Although significant time had now passed since the apparent sending of the email, 
Mrs D had requested a copy as far back as June 2021, but even at that point iWeb 
hadnt been able to provide a copy.
It appeared that the alleged email had been sent from a personal email address, 
which suggested a data protection breach had potentially occurred. As such, it 
wouldnt be right to proceed further with determining the complaint until the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) had responded in full to the complaint shed 
made to it.   
In short, iWeb was responsible for a failure to send the email of 7 September 2020, 
which meant it should be held equally responsible with the other provider for the 
transfer delay and losses incurred.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted carefully all Mrs D has said in response to my provisional decision. But having 
done so, my view remains unchanged. Im unable to conclude that iWeb acted incorrectly. I 
think, on balance, the evidence supports a finding that iWeb did what it shouldve done in 
respect of the transfer.
I accept that theres no copy available of the email sent on 7 September 2020. But, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, there is nevertheless other evidence that supports it 
being sent  that being iWebs chronology of what happened and the email of 1 October 
2020 from iWeb to the other provider, which quoted the 7 September email with the 
comment This was originally sent to you 07/09. 
I recognise that the 1 October 2020 email didnt have the original header information copied 
and pasted into it  only the body of the 7 September email  but I dont attach any particular 
significance to this. There wouldve been no benefit served by including the header. The 
important information, in the context of the transfer, wouldve been what was included and 
described as key information  the ISA Manager reference, etc, along with the details of the 
holdings.   
Clearly, an actual copy of the 7 September 2020 email would provide greater weight to the 
argument that it was sent. But that doesnt mean that no weight should be attached to the 
wider evidence  the timeline and other emails. And I dont think the fact that the other 
provider has no record of it being received is particularly persuasive evidence of it not being 
sent  not when there is other documentary evidence that does support it being sent.
In respect of Mrs Ds comments and concerns about the apparent use of a personal email 
address, as I said in my provisional decision, that isnt whats being argued by iWeb. Rather, 
its that the email was sent via an individuals named iWeb corporate email address, as 
opposed to a group corporate email address. 
Theres no suggestion being made, and no evidence that Ive seen to support, that the email 
was sent from a personal account, for instance, a gmail address or similar, outside of 
iWebs corporate system. As such, I see no reason to refrain from deciding the complaint 
until the ICO has considered Mrs D separate complete made to it about data security. Even 
if a conclusion is reached that there was an issue with the way the email was sent, that 
wouldnt be the same as a conclusion that it hadnt been sent. 
In summary, with situations like this I must make my decision on the balance of probabilities 
 in short, what I consider is more likely that not to have happened, in light of the evidence 
and wider circumstances. Although I cant be certain the email of 7 September was sent, I 
think it most likely was. And Ive not seen that iWeb did anything else that wouldve caused 
or worsened the delay. That being so, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
hold iWeb responsible for any delay, or resulting loss, associated with the transfer.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
As noted previously, Halifax Share Dealing Limited offered Mrs D £75 compensation for not 
responding sooner to her requests for information. I make no finding on that issue and 
simply leave it to Mrs D to accept the offer should she wish to do so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman