DRN-1879328
The complaint
Mrs G complains that British Gas Insurance Limited should reimburse her with £720 for the 
costs she incurred owing to the misdiagnosis of a leak in 2018. An engineer, on behalf 
of British Gas, had attended  Mrs Gs property under her home emergency insurance policy. 
What happened
In late December 2017, Mrs G noticed a damp patch on her dining room ceiling. Mrs G 
called British Gas to arrange for the leak to be repaired under her home emergency policy. 
In January 2018, an engineer attended Mrs Gs property on behalf of British Gas. British Gas 
has said the engineer located the leak under the water cylinder on the first floor. As the 
engineer suspected asbestos was present in the dining room ceiling, a test was deemed 
necessary before the plumbing under the water cylinder could be accessed, and a repair 
carried out.  
The engineer arranged for a third-party company to visit Mrs Gs property to carry out the 
asbestos test. As the test proved positive, arrangements were made for the asbestos to be 
removed - at the cost of £420.   
In March 2018, after the removal of asbestos, Mrs G contacted British Gas again. An 
engineer attended the property and noted in the job notes for the visit that theyd repaired 
the leak by replacing a piece of waste pipe. Mrs G then paid a total of £300 for the dining 
room ceiling to be plastered and re-decorated. 
In April 2019, Mrs G reported a further leak to British Gas. She said the leak appeared to be 
coming from the same area as before as water was coming through the dining room ceiling. 
An engineer, on behalf of British Gas, attended Mrs Gs property and said there was a leak 
from the connection to the pump valve in the airing cupboard. So, the engineer tightened the 
loose connection. But as the pipework in the airing cupboard remained wet after the 
visit, Mrs G called British Gas again the following day.  
An engineer re-attended Mrs Gs property and tightened the connection again. As the 
engineer suspected the leak was coming from the pump, and not the connection to the pump 
as previously thought, arrangements were made for a heating engineer to attend Mrs Gs 
property. And in May 2019 heating engineer attended Miss Gs property to carry out the 
necessary repair and balance the system.  
Mrs G said the engineer who tightened the loose connection in 2019, suspected the leak had 
occurred over a long period. So, Mrs G felt this showed the leak from the pump valve was 
the problem in 2018, rather than leaking pipework by the cylinder.  
Mrs G complained to British Gas as she thought the leak in 2018 had been misdiagnosed. 
Mrs G said the repair in 2019 had been carried out without the need to access any pipework 
in the ceiling area. So, she thought the previous leak couldve been resolved in the same 
way. Meaning the removal of asbestos, and subsequent repairs, which had cost her £720, had been unnecessary. So, Mrs G wanted British Gas to pay her this amount, so shed 
suffered no financial loss. 
In their response, British Gas said theyd acted reasonably when the engineer attended    
Mrs Gs property to fix the first leak. British Gas was satisfied that the engineer 
hadnt misdiagnosed the problem at the time. British Gas also noted they werent 
responsible for the removal of asbestos - or subsequent repairs (other than any pipework the 
policy would have covered). So, this would have been something Mrs G would have 
correctly needed to pay for. 
Our investigators view was that Mrs Gs complaint shouldnt be upheld, as she couldnt 
confirm that the leak in 2018 had been misdiagnosed.  
As Mrs G didnt agree with the investigators view, her complaint was given to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs G has explained she feels the problem at her property was mis-diagnosed in 2018. And 
this led her to incur unnecessary costs. So, Ive needed to consider whether its likely British 
Gas undertook the correct investigation, and repair work at Mrs Gs property at that time.
There was a leak which was apparent on the dining room ceiling. And, the engineer felt it 
would be reasonable to look at the pipework in this area. Given where the water staining 
was, I think this sounds like a reasonable action to take. 
I can see from the job notes provided by British Gas, the engineer suspected there was 
asbestos in the dining room ceiling. So, before they were able to complete any work the 
ceiling needed to be tested for asbestos. Im also satisfied it was fair for British Gas to point 
this out, to ensure no one was put at risk by the removal of the ceiling during the work.
Mrs G wouldve had a choice whether to have the asbestos removed to allow for an engineer 
to return and repair the leak once a test had been carried out. I understand Mrs Gs 
frustration at having the unexpected expense of the asbestos removal. But this isnt 
something I can reasonably hold British Gas accountable for, given I think its suggestion of 
looking at the pipework in that area was fair.  
Once the asbestos had been removed, and a repair completed, the information provided to 
me shows British Gas repaired some leaking pipeline in that area. I can see Mrs G 
disagreed that the first leak was repaired by removing and replacing a piece of waste pipe. 
But as Ive seen no reason to doubt the leak wasnt repaired in the way the engineer 
described within the job notes provided by British Gas. Im not persuaded the first repair 
wasnt carried out in the way it was recorded by the engineer. 
Overall, Im satisfied its unlikely the actions of the engineer led to any unnecessary repairs. 
And I dont think t the engineers recommendation for an asbestos test to be carried out was 
unreasonable in the circumstances.  Mrs G thinks the fact there was a second leak proves that the first was misdiagnosed. And I 
can understand why she would think this. The two leaks happened in the same place. And 
the second engineer said the second leak had developed over some time  but he didnt 
give an idea of how long a period. 
Ive considered the engineers report raised for the second repair in April 2019. I can see the 
engineer raised the issue with British Gas as he believed the leak was coming from the 
pump - meaning the repair would require a heating engineer.  
The second engineer fixed the leak without disturbing her ceiling, so Mrs G thinks the first 
leak couldve been fixed that way too  so the work to her ceiling wasnt necessary. 
But there was no problem for a year after the first leak was fixed. And given what Ive said 
above  that Im satisfied British Gas did carry out necessary repair work in 2018, I dont 
think evidence of a second leak  fixed in a different way  shows a first, separate, leak 
didnt need repairing. So, I dont think British Gas did anything wrong.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Gs Home Care policy say that British Gas is only 
responsible for damage to her property if they cause it. Mrs G wants them to cover the costs 
of removing the asbestos and making good afterwards.  But that wasnt damage  that was 
work the engineer deemed necessary to ensure a safe working environment  and a safe 
home for Mrs G. Ive not seen anything thats led me to conclude that work was 
unnecessary. So, I cant say it should be classed as damage  and therefore covered by the 
policy.  
I know Mrs G will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons Ive explained, Im 
satisfied British Gas insurance Limited handled Mrs Gs claims in a fair and reasonable 
manner. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Gs complaint. And I dont require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2020.
Sarah Watts
Ombudsman