DRN-1483924
 
The complaint
Miss G complains about the charges applied to her Lloyds Bank PLC account.
What happened
Miss G says Lloyds has applied account charges of about £2,000 over the last few years 
which has caused her financial hardship. She says she has lost her job and the charges are 
unaffordable. And Lloyds has not given her any help. Miss G says she is unwell and would 
like Lloyds to refund all the charges, or at least some of them.
Lloyds says the charges were applied in line with account terms and conditions and that 
Miss G had a regular income until October 2019. It says there is evidence on Miss G's 
account statements of non-essential spending, but says it's not its role to tell Miss G how 
she spends. Lloyds also says that Miss G has transferred money to a different account and 
has no record of her telling it about any difficulties until this complaint.
Miss G brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the charges couldn't be challenged on the grounds they were too high and so unfair 
following a Supreme Court case. And thought they were applied in line with account terms 
and conditions. The investigator didn't think there was a record of Miss G telling Lloyds 
about any difficulties.
Miss G doesn't accept that view and says Lloyds actions were unreasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator.
I have looked at Lloyds account terms and conditions which I think Miss G would have 
agreed to when the account was opened. And I can see that Lloyds makes clear in those 
terms and conditions that charges will be made in certain circumstances. I'm satisfied that is 
what has happened here and I have not seen any evidence that the charges were incorrectly 
applied. So I don't think Lloyds has made a mistake or acted unfairly making the charges 
and am satisfied they were applied in line with agreed account terms and conditions.
The investigator has explained that following a Supreme Court case in 2009, it was held that 
bank charges can't be challenged on the grounds they are excessive and too high and so 
unfair. That means I can't fairly question the level of the charges applied to Miss G's 
account.
Banks and building societies should treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. That doesn't mean charges ought to be refunded in every case, but does 
mean that, as in the case, Lloyds should offer help to Miss G. I'm satisfied that prior to this 
complaint Miss G didn't tell Lloyds about any such difficulties. So in those circumstances I don't think Lloyds could offer any help or support. I can see that Lloyds has now given Miss 
G details of its specialist debt team and the details of other organisations that could help her. 
So I am satisfied that Lloyds has acted positively and sympathetically when it became aware 
of Miss G's difficulties.
Overall, as I'm satisfied Lloyds hasn't made a mistake or acted unfairly, I can't fairly order it 
to refund all or some of the charges as Miss G would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman