DRN-4116813
The complaint
Mr M complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) mismanaged his contributions into his 
personal pension. And that it still hasnt corrected its mistakes. He wants his personal 
pension to be put back into the correct financial position. And compensation for the stress 
and inconvenience the issues have caused him. 
What happened
Mr M has a personal pension with ReAssure. The original maturity date (also referred to as 
selected retirement date) on the pension was in May 2021. 
ReAssure wrote to Mr M in March 2021 to tell him that his cover would cease in May 2021. 
The letter said, under a section headed Can I pay in?:
You can usually continue to pay into your ReAssure Ltd pension until youre 75. Well stop 
collecting contributions on your selected retirement date, so if you want to make payments 
past then (and youre under age 75) youll need to let us know.
Mr M didnt let ReAssure know that he still wanted to contribute into his pension after May 
2021. So ReAssure stopped taking contributions from him in May 2021, in line with the 
statement in the March 2021 letter. 
Mr M hadnt wanted his pension contributions to stop. In November 2021, he told ReAssure 
he wanted to reinstate his policy. He wanted to contribute £240 each month with effect from 
1 December 2021.
On 16 November 2021, Mr M sent ReAssure a cheque for £240 for the 1 December 2021 
payment. He also sent a completed reinstatement eligibility form.
Mr M was unhappy that ReAssure had stopped taking his contributions without telling him. 
So he complained. 
ReAssure responded to this complaint in its 3 December 2021 final response letter. It didnt 
uphold the complaint. It said it had written to Mr M in March 2021 to tell him that his cover 
would cease in May 2021. And that it then didnt hear from him until November 2021, when 
he said he wanted the policy to be reinstated. It said itd then sent out the relevant forms to 
reinstate the policy.
ReAssure said Mr M contacted it in February 2022 as the backdated contributions hadnt yet 
been applied to his pension. It said it told him that the contributions couldnt be applied 
straight away. But that it would be applied and backdated so that Mr M would have no 
financial loss.
ReAssure wrote to Mr M in March 2022 to tell him that it would take the next payment of 
£480 (in respect of the March 2022 and April 2022 contributions) from his bank account on 
or around 1 April 2022. And that it would then continue to collect his contributions of £240 
each month by direct debit as normal from 1 May 2022
In July 2022, ReAssure wrote to Mr M again about his pension contributions. It said that in 
order to apply his contributions, it needed him to complete and return a Relief at Source 
Declaration. It said that if this wasnt received within 14 days, it would arrange to refund the 
payments of £1,440 to Mr M.
Mr M completed and returned the form ReAssure said it needed on 13 July 2022. He also 
told ReAssure that it couldnt do anything with the unallocated amount until hed received its 
final response to his complaint. And that it needed to include a proposal for allocating the 
outstanding amount and an offer of compensation in that response. 
ReAssure issued its final response to the complaint on 22 August 2022. It upheld the 
complaint. It said Mr M had made a payment to cover the missed contributions in March 
2022. But that the payment hadnt initially been allocated as instructed. It had instead been 
treated as a single premium payment. ReAssure said Mr M had also been asked to 
unnecessarily complete forms. It said it shouldve offered him the option of paying the 
missed contributions much sooner than it had. ReAssure also acknowledged that it had 
taken a long time to backdate the payments and correctly allocate them to Mr Ms pension.
ReAssure also said that Mr Ms direct debit for contributions stopped being taken without 
instruction from him after the September 2022 payment. It said it shouldnt have happened, 
and offered Mr M the chance to make a payment to cover the missed direct debits and 
reinstate it for future contributions.
ReAssure also acknowledged the effort Mr M had had to make to try to correct the situation. 
And said it would work to put his policy back to the correct position. It also said it would 
arrange for £400 to be sent to him as compensation. 
Mr M replied to ReAssure. He didnt think the £400 compensation offered was enough under 
the circumstances. He said hed had to make around 25 calls to sort out the issue. And that 
hed had to complete unnecessary forms. He also said ReAssure had failed to return calls 
within a reasonable time frame and had shown a lack of professionalism and expertise. 
ReAssure replied to Mr M on 17 October 2022. It said it would reply further once it had made 
the contribution correction, at which time it would revise its compensation offer.
Mr M contacted ReAssure again in December 2022. Hed noticed that ReAssure had last 
taken a direct debit from him on 1 September 2022 and said he hadnt given any instructions 
for contributions to stop. 
Mr M wrote to ReAssure again on 9 January 2023. He said his pension still hadnt been 
corrected. And that his account had been blocked on its platform while the work on the 
correction continued. He still didnt agree with the compensation offered. He said that the 
correction still hadnt been made. And hed experienced significant inconvenience and 
wasted time and call costs.
ReAssure replied on 16 January 2023. It said that Mr Ms pension contribution direct debit 
was last collected on 1 September 2022, due to its administrative error. It asked Mr M to 
confirm that he still wanted to pay in the missing premiums from October 2022 to January 
2023, before it corrected the error. Or if he instead wanted to take a premium holiday. 
Mr M was unhappy that ReAssure still hadnt resolved the issues. He raised a further 
complaint. And asked for an update on when the existing complaint would be resolved. He 
also asked for more appropriate compensation under the circumstances.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service in January 2023. He felt ReAssure had mismanaged his pension contributions. And that it still hadnt fixed its errors over more than 
20 months. He also felt that the original error of stopping his contributions had been 
compounded by the administrative error ReAssure made when it had stopped taking his 
direct debits after the September 2022 contribution. 
ReAssure said it wrote to Mr M on 17 February 2023 with the options available to him. 
ReAssure told this service that it had reviewed the series of events since its August 2022 
final response letter. It felt that given that the pension still wasnt in the correct position, a 
further £300 compensation payment would be fair and reasonable for the poor customer 
journey Mr M had received. So its total compensation offer was £700. ReAssure also said 
that it wouldnt be an easy process to put the pension back to the correct position, but that it 
had escalated the issue to the team dealing with premium servicing to fix it. It also said that if 
there were any further delays outside of its control, it might consider further compensation.
ReAssure also said that Mr M wouldnt lose out financially as it would put the plan back into 
the correct position as if the contributions had been collected and applied with no issues. It 
also said it could provide further information to Mr M once the pension was fixed.
ReAssure wrote to Mr M on 24 March 2023, after having written to him earlier the same 
month but not hearing back from him. It said it was still trying to resolve the issues with his 
pension. And asked him to confirm whether he wanted to backdate his contributions from 
October 2022 to February 2023. Or if he wanted to take a premium holiday for the missed 
months and restart his contributions at a time of his choice. 
Mr M replied to ReAssure. He repeated his complaint. And confirmed that he did want to 
make backdated payments into his account for the period from October 2022 to April 2023 
as a lump sum. He also asked for regular monthly direct debit contributions to resume from 1 
May 2023. He asked for a full explanation and breakdown of how the backdated 
contributions had been applied to his pension so that he could be satisfied that hed not been 
short changed. 
ReAssure acknowledged Mr Ms request and told him that it would need to have received 
the payment for the missed contributions before the end of the tax year. 
Our investigator considered whether ReAssures new offer did enough to put things right. He 
felt that the offer to correct the mistake was fair, and in line with what he wouldve told it to 
do in the absence of its offer. He also felt that the compensation it had offered was 
reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint.   
Our investigator acknowledged that Mr M had also raised concerns about ReAssures 
complaint handling. He said that as this part of the complaint didnt include an activity 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, he couldnt comment on this aspect of the 
complaint.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points to explain why he felt 
the settlement offer was too low:
He didnt trust Reassure to put his account into the correct position, as it had failed to 
do so after very nearly two years. 
He didnt consider the compensation offered was sufficient for all of the calls hed had 
to make and emails hed had to write in trying to resolve his complaint. He felt hed 
wasted around 100 hours of his time.Mr M said the complaint had caused him stress and frustration.
He felt that to put things right, the financial settlement should consist of: 
i) the maximum possible compensation for financial/opportunity losses 
ii) a payment for 100 hours of his time, which he felt should be based on between 
12.5 and 14.25 working days. 
iii) a reasonable payment for the serious stress and frustration over a very 
protracted period.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that ReAssures proposal 
for redress is reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr M. Ill explain the reasons for my decision.
Where a business has made an offer to settle a complaint  as ReAssure has done  what
I have to decide is whether, in all the circumstances, that offer is fair and reasonable.
In this case, the evidence shows that the contributions originally stopped because Mr M 
reached his selected retirement age without telling ReAssure that he wanted to continue his 
contributions. However, despite Mr M sending ReAssure £1,440 in respect of the six monthly 
contributions that had been missed between June 2021 and November 2021, ReAssure still 
hadnt applied the backdated contributions to his account before his complaint to this 
service. ReAssure then made further errors, including failing to take further contributions 
from Mr Ms direct debit after the September 2022 payment. 
ReAssure has acknowledged that it has caused Mr M further distress and inconvenience 
with the additional errors and the length of time it has taken to put Mr Ms pension back to 
the position it should be in but for the error. It said that this was because it wasnt an easy 
process. ReAssure has also said that if there are any further delays outside of its control, it 
might consider further compensation.
As our investigator noted, backdating the delayed contributions to the date they shouldve 
been received into Mr Ms pension is what this service would normally recommend. 
Therefore, Im satisfied that ReAssures offer on this point is fair and reasonable. 
I acknowledge that Mr M doesnt trust ReAssure to put his account back into the correct 
position, given what has happened. But Im satisfied that it will be able to successfully 
reinstate his pension. And I note that ReAssure has offered to provide Mr M with further 
information once the correction has been completed. 
I next considered whether the £700 total compensation ReAssure has offered for distress 
and inconvenience is fair and reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr M doesnt consider £700 is enough given the amount of time and effort hes spent on the 
phone and writing emails to ReAssure to resolve his complaint. I understand why he feels this way, given how long hes spent on this issue. And the fact that Mr Ms pension is still not 
back to where it should be. I can also see that the situation must have caused Mr M 
considerable frustration. 
In its August 2022 complaint response, ReAssure acknowledged the effort Mr M had made 
to try to correct the situation. And said it would arrange for £400 to be sent to him as 
compensation. 
After the complaint came to this service, ReAssure said that as the pension still wasnt in the 
correct position, a further £300 compensation payment would be fair and reasonable for the 
poor customer journey Mr M had received. And that it would consider further compensation if 
there were more delays. 
I know Mr M has worked out the amount of time hes spent on the complaint. And feels that 
the compensation should reflect that time. But this service doesnt base what we consider 
fair compensation simply on the time spent to resolve the situation. Instead, it looks at the 
impact of the business mistake on the complainant.
This service considers compensation of £700 to be fair where the impact of a businesss 
mistake has caused significant inconvenience and disruption that needs a lot of extra effort 
over a period of months to sort out. This has clearly been the case here, where Mr M has 
been significantly inconvenienced and had to make a lot of effort for several months.  
Overall, Im satisfied that ReAssures offer of £700 compensation for the distress and 
inconveniences it has caused, and its willingness to consider further compensation if there 
are further delays to the full resolution of this complaint, is reasonable under the 
circumstances. 
In summary, I consider that ReAssures settlement offer is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances of the complaint. And that it will put Mr Ms personal pension back into the 
correct financial position. And, although I uphold the complaint, I dont require ReAssure to 
change their settlement offer.
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited must ensure that Mr Ms pension is put back into the position it wouldve 
been in if the contributions had continued to be paid into the pension each month at the 
usual time. It should also provide Mr M with a clear explanation of how it has ensured that 
his pension is now back to the correct position. 
ReAssure Limited must also pay Mr M a total of £700 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its error caused. If it has already paid Mr M the initial £400 compensation it 
offered him, ReAssure can deduct that from the payment. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited must take the 
actions detailed in the Putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman