DRN-3522174
The complaint
Mr R complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (fist direct) wont refund the money he paid an 
investment company, F, who he now thinks were a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
In July 2019, Mr R paid F over £8,000 from his first direct current account. Around a year 
later, he reported to first direct that F were a scam and that hed lost around £6,000. First 
direct said he was too late to raise a chargeback claim. Unhappy with this response, Mr R 
referred the matter to our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that first direct should refund Mr R. She wasnt 
persuaded it had reason to intervene when he made the payments, nor did she think the 
money could have been successfully recovered through the chargeback scheme. Mr R 
disagreed. He said first direct ought to have red flagged the payments given the litigation 
and regulatory issues F are facing. Ive since given him some further detail about when we 
would, and wouldnt, expect banks to intervene, and on the scope of the chargeback 
scheme. In response, Mr R has confirmed that he still wants a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, first direct is expected to 
process authorised payment instructions without undue delay. So the starting 
position is that Mr R is liable for these payments to F as he authorised them.  
Banks also have long-standing duties to help protect customers from financial harm 
from fraud and scams. But those are predicated on there having been a fraud or 
scam. Theres a high legal threshold for this. It wouldnt necessarily be enough that F 
were promoting high-risk investments using methods that were arguably unethical 
and/or misleading. In line with the Fraud Act 2006, Im considering whether it can 
reasonably be shown that F dishonestly made a false representation and/or failed to 
disclose information with the intention of making a gain for themselves, causing loss 
to Mr R, or exposing him to the risk of loss. 
At the time, F were regulated by the Cyprus Securities and Exchange Commission 
(CySec). They had passporting rights to operate under that authorisation in the UK. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was Fs host regulator; F appeared on the 
FCA register. It would be unusual for a scammer to comply with the regulatory 
requirements this involved. It would also be unusual for a scammer to allow someone 
to withdraw their available balance, as Mr R told first direct he was able to. 
Neither the FCA nor IOSCO (the international body which brings together the worlds 
securities regulators) had issued warnings about F. And although the FCA went on to 
remove Fs right to operate in the UK, that was after Mr R made these payments. Ive 
seen nothing to suggest the funds werent genuinely invested. Overall, Ive not seen 
enough to persuade me F defrauded him, meaning there was no obligation on first 
direct to (try to) prevent the payments. 
In any event, if I found first direct ought to have flagged the payments, Id need to 
consider if it would have prevented the loss if it had questioned Mr R about what he 
was doing. Such questioning would likely have revealed that F had FCA authorisation 
to operate in the UK. I think that would reasonably have alleviated any fraud 
concerns. To conclude otherwise would mean concluding first direct ought to have 
identified concerns before its own regulator. I therefore dont consider this a missed 
opportunity to prevent Mr Rs loss. 
Nor do I think first direct could have raised a successful chargeback claim for Mr R. 
This is a voluntary scheme for payment disputes, the rules of which are set by VISA 
rather than the bank. When Mr R reported his dispute, he was outside the 120-day 
period to raise a claim about the service at the time of the transactions. Additionally, 
there are limited grounds for investment claim. The main scenario, as set out in 
VISAs rules, is where the merchant refuses to allow its customer to withdraw their 
available balance  but F allowed Mr R to do this.   
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr R. But Ive not found that first direct made errors 
which contributed to, or prevented him from recovering, the money he lost. So I dont 
consider it fair and reasonable to hold it liable for this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman