DRN-1230494
The complaint
 Ms C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2003 Ms C took out a mortgage and the bank recommended she also take out PPI to 
protect her repayments. The PPI cost about £22 a month and would have paid out about 
£368 a month for up to two years if Ms C had made a successful claim.
Ms C says she wasnt aware she had a choice about buying the PPI and that it was too 
expensive for her. She says she wouldnt have bought the PPI if shed been told it was 
optional at the time. Ms C thinks the bank was wrong to sell her the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Ms C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Cs case
I have decided not to uphold Ms Cs complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for this.
Firstly I should clarify that the PPI part of the insurance Ms C bought is the only part this 
service has been asked to look at. The cost of this was just under £22 a month  not £61.20 
as our adjudicator mistakenly said. 
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely 
to have happened.
Ms Cs main concern is that she was led to believe the PPI was compulsory Shes also 
pointed out that it was expensive given her circumstances
Halifax doesnt have all the paperwork for either the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt 
surprising given the sale took place about 17 years ago and the mortgage ended in 2005. I 
wouldnt expect either Ms C or Halifax to keep paperwork indefinitely.
From what this service knows about how Halifax sold PPI at the time, its likely Ms C was 
given a choice about buying the PPI. We have copies of the sort of paperwork Halifax used, 
and I cant see any reason why Ms C wouldnt have been treated as other customers were. Even without the actual paperwork, I think Halifax most likely gave Ms C enough information 
for her to know she had the PPI, and that it was optional, even though I do understand why 
shes forgotten this over the years.
Halifax says it advised Ms C to buy the PPI. This means that it needed to ensure that it met 
her needs. From what I know of Ms Cs circumstances at the time, I think the policy was 
suitable for them.
Ms C was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt look like she would have been affected 
by any of the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating 
to pre-existing medical conditions. 
Ms C doesnt appear to have had many work related benefits that would have helped 
if she was too ill to work, or if she was made redundant. Nor has she told us about 
any savings she had in 2003. The PPI would pay on top of any work related benefits 
Ms C might have had. A mortgage is a big commitment, especially when there are 
children to consider, and I think Ms C would have had some use for the policy.
Halifax needed to give Ms C enough information for her to make an informed choice 
about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when she was told what the PI would 
cost. But I do think shed have known it cost something. The policy was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable, and I dont think when Ms C first knew the cost 
affected her decision to buy the PPI. I accept she says she thought it expensive, but I 
havent seen anything that suggests it was unaffordable for her.
Its possible that Halifax could have provided more information about the policy, 
particularly in regard to the things that it didnt cover. But Ms C wasnt affected by any 
of these things at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused 
her to change her mind about buying the policy.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
 
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman