DRN-2867433
The complaint
Mr S complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
 
What happened
In December 2018 Mr S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS.
At the end of the agreement the car was collected and inspected. MBFS invoiced Mr S for 
damage caused to the car as well as charges for extra days hire and excess mileage.
Mr S disputed the charges. He said the damage was caused to the car after it was collected 
and that he had reports which showed that the car was in a collision after it was collected. 
He also said the car hadnt been supplied with a run flat tyre, so he didnt think it was fair that 
he was being charged for this.
MBFS rejected Mr Ss complaint. It said it had reviewed the inspection report and was 
satisfied that the charges had been raised correctly. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he was satisfied that all of the damage 
and the incorrect tyre fell outside of the fair wear and tear guidelines and that the charges 
had been applied fairly.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that no damage had been highlighted to him when the car was 
collected and the report he had obtained showed that a  collision had taken place after 
collection. Mr S said he was willing to pay for the extra days hire and the excess mileage. He 
said he would also pay for the damage to three of the wheels and the bumper damage 
because he could see this was mentioned on the collection receipt.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mr S isnt disputing the extra days hire charges of the excess mileage, I wont be 
looking  at these. Instead Ill focus on the damage charges.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr S must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds acceptable wear and tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos. This identifies damage to the rim of 
all four wheels, damage to the front bumper, the rear bumper and the rear left hand tyre. It 
also says the rear right hand tyre should be a run flat tyre.
Mr S says that although he accepts that three of the wheels had some damage, as did the 
rear bumper, he thinks the rest of the damage was caused after the car was collected. He 
says the car was lifted onto the collection trailer without adequate protection and that a 
collision App on his phone showed that the car was in a collision after it was collected.
MBFS says that a protective cover was placed over the wheels when the car was collected. 
It also says there is no record of  a post collection collision.
Ive looked at the collision reports provided by Mr S from his App. These show three impacts, 
with two of these being on an unknown location on the car and the third being on  the front 
right.
Because the first two notifications arent specific as to location, I cant take these into 
account. The third notification shows a n impact on an area of the car where no damage was 
identified, so theres no evidential link between the alleged collision and the damage 
identified in the report.
Looking at the inspection report and the photos, I can see that the wheels were covered 
when the car was collected. So I cant agree with Mr S that there wasnt adequate protection. 
I think its more likely that the damage was present at the point of collection. I havent seen 
any persuasive evidence that the damage was caused after collection.
Looking at the nature of the damage and having regard to the relevant guidelines, Im of the 
view that the damage is outside of acceptable wear and tear and that the charges have been 
fairly applied.
I understand that Mr S has said that all 4 tyres were run flat when the car was collected. 
However, the inspection report says one of the tyres wasnt a run flat. Mr S has said that the 
tyres were never changed. The implication being that the car was supplied with one tyre 
which wasnt run flat. There isnt enough information for me to safely conclude that this was 
the case. The terms of the agreement say that its up to Mr S to tell MBFS if the car doesnt 
match the description in the agreement. So if the car was supplied with one tyre which 
wasnt run flat, it was up to Mr S to notify MBFS within a reasonable time of the start of the 
agreement.
On balance, Im satisfied that the damage including the incorrect tyre are outside of 
acceptable wear and tear and that the charges have been applied fairly by MBFS.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman