DRN-2013043
The complaint
Mr S  on behalf of Company M  complains that McGowan Corporate Solutions 
(McGowan) mis-sold him a business protection policy. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision, in response to Mr Ss 
submissions, which are:
McGowan failed to highlight the conditions precedent to liability (also known as policy 
endorsements) for hired in plant cover, despite earlier highlighting those applicable 
to tools and owned equipment;
It was only after the policys inception that McGowan issued policy documents 
containing the relevant conditions Company M would have to adhere to. If they had 
known of such conditions beforehand, they would not have agreed to the policy as 
they were unworkable for the company. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
McGowan did not sell the policy to Company M on an advised basis. Therefore, their 
obligations were to ensure they had given appropriate information such that Mr S 
could make an informed choice about the arrangements proposed, prior to the 
conclusion of the policy (see ICOBS 6.1 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook).
 
Having seen the policy schedule, I can see that the policys date of inception was 29 
October 2018. Prior to this, McGowan had sent Mr S a revised quote on 22 October 
2018 attaching three documents  which included a contract works quote (of which 
the hired in plant cover forms part of). The contract works document attached to this 
email contained the conditions precedent to liability for this type of cover. Mr S 
responded the following day saying these both look good  which suggests that he 
looked through the documentation and did not have any issues with the relevant 
information that was sent. So Im satisfied the policy endorsements were set out to 
Mr S prior to the conclusion of the policy, and that they were clear enough for him to 
make an informed choice about whether the policy was right for Company M.
 
When discussing previous quotes, McGowan had expressed the importance of 
reading the documentation, including the endorsements. For example, on 28 
September 2018 McGowan said pages 6 and 7 list some endorsements which apply 
restrictions and/or conditions you need to comply with. If any of these cause you a 
problem then let me know and I look [sic] to try and get them changed".
 
I appreciate that McGowan quoted the specific endorsements applicable to Company Ms tools. But ICOBS 6.1.6 states that in relation to the level of information that has to 
be provided, a firm can take into account the type of customer they are dealing with, 
including the knowledge, experience and ability of a typical customer. So, given that 
McGowan was dealing with a commercial customer in this instance, I consider it was 
enough for them to simply tell Mr S where to find the significant terms he had to be 
aware of  which Im satisfied they did. If a firm had to quote every term that might 
be significant to a commercial customer, they could find themselves quoting back the 
entire policy wording. 
So, having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied the conditions precedent to liability were 
provided and made clear to Mr S in the discussions and email exchanges that occurred 
before the policy was concluded  such that he ought reasonably to have been aware of 
them as a commercial customer. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S  on behalf 
of Company M  to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman