DRN-1800803
 
The complaint
Ms J says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about two instalment loans MYJAR provided to Ms J between May and 
November 2018. A summary of Ms Js borrowing history is below: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 19/05/2018 17/11/2018 6 £550.00 £171.22
2 18/11/2018 Outstanding 6 £1,300.00 £411.75
 
The balance on loan 2 is outstanding at the time of writing this decision. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed the complaint and thought that loan 2 should not have 
been given to Ms J as the repayment cost for this loan was a significant portion of her 
income. MYJAR didnt respond to the assessment.  
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of 
income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Ms J could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Js complaint. Having done this, Im upholding the complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Js complaint about loan 1. Ms J didnt respond to the 
opinion. As there appears to be no dispute about this loan, I wont be making any further 
findings on it. 
MYJAR says it carried out adequate checks on Ms J when she applied for loan 2. This 
included verifying her employment and income. It also says it carried out credit checks 
which didnt reveal anything of concern. However, I think if MYJAR had properly considered 
the information it had about Ms Js financial situation and the lending, I think it would have 
seen that Ms J was not able to take on this borrowing. 
I say this because Ms J was borrowing £1,300, which was due to be repaid in six monthly 
instalments plus interest. This meant that Ms J would be repaying around £412 from her 
monthly declared income of £1,600. The repayment represented a significant proportion of 
Ms Js income and I think MYJAR ought to have realised this and the potential for Ms J to 
struggle to make the repayment  especially as it needed to be repaid over several months. 
As the balance of this loan is outstanding, I think this proves that Ms J was unable to 
sustainably make the repayments and the loan shouldnt have been given.  
So, Im upholding Ms Js complaint about loan 2.  
Putting things right
If the outstanding balance due on Ms Js loan has been transferred to a third party MYJAR 
should buy the loan back if it can. If MYJAR cant buy the loan back, then it needs to work 
with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms J towards interest, fees and 
charges on the upheld loan without an outstanding balance.B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms J which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms J originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld outstanding 
loan, and treat any repayments made by Ms J as though they had been repayments 
of the principal on the outstanding loan. 
If this results in Ms J having made overpayments then MYJAR should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
MYJAR should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loan. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Ms J. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then MYJAR should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Ms J. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Js credit file in relation to loan 
2.
                                                                                                                                 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must give Ms J 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
Im partially upholding Ms Js complaint. MYJAR Limited should put things right as set out 
above.
I understand Ms J is subject to an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA). Ms J should bear 
in mind her obligations to her Insolvency Practitioner (IP) in respect of any redress she 
receives. A copy of this decision will be sent to her IP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman