DRN-3468668
The complaint
Ms O has complained about how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) handled her request for 
money back in relation to two transactions she made. 
What happened
Ms O asked Barclays to help her claim two transactions back that shed made on her debit 
card. The first payment of £602.97 was for a flight shed booked through a travel booking 
website. It debited her account on 15 March 2021. 
The second payment of £230.08 was for accommodation shed booked, through an 
accommodation booking website. And it debited her account on 18 March 2021. Ms O raised 
the claims online with Barclays for the two transactions separately. 
Ms O said she raised the claim for the flight booking because the merchant booked the 
wrong dates, and that shed tried to cancel the booking to obtain a refund. She said she 
raised the claim for the accommodation because after checking in she said the room wasnt 
as described; she felt unsafe; and she wanted to receive a refund after cancelling the 
booking. 
Barclays said Ms O raised the claim for the flight booking on 16 March 2021, and the claim 
for the accommodation on 13 April 2021. It said it disputed both payments on the day the 
claims were received. Temporary credits were provided for both transactions. And both 
disputes were set up as cancelled merchandise/service. 
The merchant for the flight booking responded at the end of March 2021. The chargeback 
was declined, and Barclays posted Ms O documents to review on 9 April 2021.  It asked her 
to review the documents and if she wasnt happy, shed need to respond to it within 10 days. 
No response was received, and the claim was closed on 27 April 2021. The temporary credit 
was removed a few days later. 
The merchant for the accommodation booking responded towards the end of April 2021. 
Barclays wrote to Ms O on 5 May 2021 requesting further information to be provided within 
seven days. Not having received a response, Barclays closed the claim on 28 May 2021. 
Ms O was unhappy the claims were closed. She said she was abroad when the requests for 
further information were posted to her, and that Barclays should have known that. So she 
complained.
Barclays said in relation to the flight booking dispute, it wrote to Ms O off the back of 
receiving a response from the flight booking company. The flight booking company had 
highlighted terms and conditions Ms O had agreed to before paying for the flights. Barclays 
explained Ms O had not responded to its letter. As it didnt receive a response, it was unable 
to pursue the claim further. And it suggested Ms O contact the flight booking company. 
Barclays said in relation to the accommodation booking the merchant had responded to say 
Ms O had agreed to its terms and conditions. And that it had been told Ms O didnt adhere to 
the cancellation policy. It again highlighted it had written to Ms O to respond to this. It hadnt 
received a response, so it was unable to pursue the claim further. It suggested Ms O contact 
the accommodation booking company. 
Barclays did however say it incorrectly asked Ms O to send in some documentation for one 
of the claims. So it paid her £30 to say sorry. 
Ms O wasnt happy with the response, so she brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman to consider. 
Barclays wanted to highlight the outcome of chargeback claims was not its own judgment on 
which party was wrong or right. It said it had to abide by the rules set out by the card scheme 
operator. And that it was unable to recover Ms Os funds because both merchants 
challenged the claim. It said it didnt have the required evidence from Ms O that wouldve 
allowed it to rechallenge the merchants responses. And that both disputes were handled 
correctly and within the guidelines of the card scheme operator. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and ultimately thought Barclays could have 
handled things better. He said the accommodation booking merchants response should 
have been challenged, even without further information from Ms O. He said the merchants 
response consisted of an incomplete generic form without specific details of Ms Os dispute. 
He considered Barclays decision to request further information from Ms O by post, and that 
its chargeback team only correspond in that way. But he didnt think that was fair. He noted 
Ms Os contact preference was email, text and phone.
Barclays had explained a copy of the letter sent to Ms O asking for further information was 
available on its mobile app, which she was able to access. But our investigator noted 
accompanying evidence wasnt included. So our investigator thought the letter on its own 
wasnt that helpful. 
Therefore, our investigator thought Barclays hadnt acted fairly and that it should have 
challenged the accommodation booking merchants response with the evidence it had to 
hand. And that it wasnt fair it hadnt sent the flight booking merchants response to Ms O 
electronically. 
However, our investigator thought about what would likely have happened had things gone 
as he thinks they should have done. But he didnt think either of the chargebacks were likely 
to have succeeded. He said he couldnt see an error in the flight booking or cancellation. 
And he also thought that Ms O hadnt provided sufficient evidence the accommodation she 
booked wasnt as described, as shed asserted, or that shed shown she validly cancelled. 
Ms O agreed that Barclays should have done more, but she didnt agree with the outcome. 
She explained shed provided a lot of evidence to Barclays to support her claims. And that it 
hadnt acted in her best interests. She also reiterated it should have contacted her digitally, 
as per her preferences.  
Moreover, Ms O said the investigator was speculating on what may or may not have 
happened had Barclays followed up properly. She thought Barclays hadnt been acting fairly, 
and so it should refund her. 
As things couldnt be resolved, the case has been passed to me to make a decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im considering whether Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it handled 
Ms Os request for money back. In situations like this, card issuers can consider raising a 
chargeback. 
The chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a payment to be refunded in 
certain circumstances. The chargeback process is subject to rules made by the relevant card 
scheme. Its not a guaranteed way of getting money back. 
While its good practice for a bank to attempt to chargeback where certain conditions are met 
and theres some prospect of success, there are dispute conditions set by the relevant card 
scheme that need to be considered. If these are not met, a chargeback is unlikely to 
succeed. And something going wrong with a merchant wont always lead to a successful 
claim. 
Barclays said both chargebacks were put through for cancelled goods/services. Given 
Ms O said she tried to cancel the flight booking and the accommodation I think this was a 
reasonable dispute category to use. So Ive thought about the rules relating to cancelled 
goods/services when deciding if Barclays has treated Ms O fairly. Although I also note that 
Ms O has said the flight booking company booked the wrong flight, and that the 
accommodation wasnt as described. So Ill have regard to that and any other dispute 
conditions that might be relevant.
Like our investigator pointed out, the problem is theres a lack of evidence that Ms Os claims 
were likely to succeed on the basis of cancelled goods/services or services not being as 
described. I asked our investigator to contact Ms O to give her a further opportunity to 
support her complaint by supplying evidence of the following:
That the flight booking company booked the wrong flight.
Terms relating to the 48-hour cancellation policy shed mentioned.
Whether thered been any update in relation to her claim for the flight. 
The terms of the accommodation booking that Ms O thinks were breached, 
specifically in relation to the cancellation, safety, and the property not being as 
described. 
Reasons given to Barclays for submitting the claims.
Ms O responded to say she didnt have proof the booking website booked the wrong flight, 
but that shed tried to sort things out immediately. She said she tried to cancel straight away 
and that there was a federally mandated 24-hour cancellation policy. 
Ms O also highlighted shed sent Barclays evidence of threatening emails from the 
accommodation host whose accommodation shed cancelled. She reiterated she left the 
accommodation because she felt unsafe and that it wasnt as described. She says the 
accommodation host breached terms relating to the description of the accommodation as 
well as terms relating to threatening customers and the content of reviews. 
I want to thank Ms O for taking the time to supply further evidence to support her complaint. 
But having considered what shes sent, along with the submissions from the merchants and 
the relevant rules of the card scheme, Ive not seen sufficient evidence there was a likely 
prospect of success for either claim, even had Barclays pursued things further. Ms O hasnt been able to provide sufficient evidence the booking company booked the 
wrong flight. Ive also not received details of the flight booking company breaching a term 
relating to a 48-hour cancellation policy. Ms O has provided evidence the US Department of 
Transportations 24-hour refund regulation says all airlines flying in the US must issue a full 
refund if the reservation is cancelled within a one-day window. But the article Ms O has 
shared also says this only applies to fares purchased directly with the airline, which Ms O 
didnt do. The US Department of Transportations note says when going through a booking 
agent, the reservation is subject to the booking companys refund policy.  
Moreover, with regards to the booking companys terms relating to booking cancellation 
requests, it says customers can contact the airline direct or ask the booking company to 
help. But it says fares can be subject to its own handling fees, the airlines cancellation 
penalties, and that cancellations may not be guaranteed. It says cancellation policies are 
determined by the airlines.
Taking this into account, I dont find I have enough evidence to show the services were not 
as described, or that the booking company hasnt responded to the cancelled services in line 
with the contract. I cant see the booking company has taken on full liability for flight 
cancellations. And while I appreciate Ms O has provided copies of some negative reviews of 
the booking company, this doesnt provide sufficient evidence the claim ought to have 
succeeded. 
Ive next thought about what Ms O has said and shared about the accommodation booking. I 
can see the accommodation listings should be accurate, and that host reviews shouldnt be 
threatening. And of course, guests should be able to feel safe in any accommodation. But 
Ms O hasnt shown us sufficient evidence the property wasnt as described. I appreciate she 
tried to sort things out straight away, but aside from the correspondence, it doesnt look like 
she had anything else to submit for the chargeback claim. I can appreciate why she didnt 
find time to take photos given the circumstances. But I have to base my decision on the 
available evidence. And I dont think Ms Os verbal testimony or correspondence supplied 
were enough for a successful chargeback. 
Ive also looked myself to see if the accommodation booking company has an extenuating 
circumstances policy for refunds, but the current conditions at least dont cover the situation 
Ms O found herself in. They seem more intended for circumstances such as natural 
disasters and government restrictions. In the absence of anything to show otherwise, I 
expect the terms are similar or the same as they were when Ms O made her booking. 
Ms O also hasnt shown us that she was entitled to any sort of refund from a cancellation 
made after shed checked in. Therefore, I cant point towards something in the contract that 
demonstrates the accommodation booking company has not refunded some, or indeed all 
the cost to Ms O when it was contractually required to do so. 
Moreover, while I appreciate she was unhappy with the review the host left, I cant see that a 
review, even if it went against the accommodation booking companys policy, would lead to a 
refund for Ms O. So ultimately, while I can appreciate why shes unhappy, I cant see the 
accommodation booking company has broken a term in its cancellation policy. We simply 
therefore dont have the evidence to show the chargeback ought to have been successful. 
Im sorry to hear what Ms O has been through. She tells us shes not received a refund for 
flights she was unable to use, and it sounds like she had a bad experience with the 
accommodation booking. I agree Barclays could have done more based on the information it 
already had, taking into account the responses it received. But that doesnt automatically 
mean the claims were going to be successful. Its important to note I have to consider Barclays liability here. Im not considering a 
complaint against the flight booking company or accommodation company. I need to think 
about what the relevant card schemes chargeback rules say. And they are quite specific in 
setting out circumstances for disputes to succeed. So like I said before, just because 
something has gone wrong, it doesnt automatically mean the customer will get refunded. 
And if there isnt sufficient evidence the claims should have succeeded, as I think is the case 
here, I dont have the grounds to ask Barclays to refund Ms O. 
Barclays paid Ms O £30 in relation to asking her to send in some documentation which 
wasnt needed. I think this is broadly fair in the circumstances. But Im not going to direct it to 
do more. Ms O may wish to contact the merchants again. And she is of course free to 
pursue the claims by other means, such as through the courts. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC has done enough to put things right. I make 
no further directions. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman