DRN-3792151
The complaint
Mr B complains that Standard Life Savings Limited delayed a request to transfer his pension 
fund to another provider.
What happened
Mr B had a Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Standard Life. He says it took 
Standard Life 70 days to transfer his SIPP to another provider. He also had an ISA under 
the same wrapper with Standard Life and it was transferred in 8 weeks. Mr B says there 
were delays at each stage of the transfer process and hes lost out as a result.
Mr B made his SIPP transfer request towards the end of September 2020. Standard Life 
sent the valuation for his SIPP to an incorrect email address on 8 October. It wasnt until 3 
November, following a query from his financial adviser that Standard Life issued the 
valuation to the correct email address. He says that although some assets were being 
transferred in specie, Standard Life didnt disinvest the other assets at the same time and 
this caused further delays. Mr B says hes lost out, because of the delays, due to changes 
in the stock market. He complained to Standard Life.
Standard Life looked into his complaint. It said it had completed the transfer request within 
its service level agreement timeframes and within the Financial Services guidelines. It said 
that Mr B had requested an in specie transfer for part of the funds in the SIPP and this 
needed to be completed before it could place sells for the other parts of the funds. It said 
this type of transfer could be technical and time consuming but it was satisfied it had 
completed the process in a timely fashion. The industry wide framework indicated that SIPP 
transfers can take on average three to six months.
Standard Life accepted it had made an error when it sent the initial valuation to an incorrect 
email address but, taken overall, it said the end to end processing time was not excessive.
Mr B was not satisfied with this response. He referred his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the part of his complaint which related to his SIPP. His complaint 
about the ISA is being considered in a separate complaint.
Our investigator thought about the initial valuation having been sent to an incorrect email 
address. But, taking everything into account, he thought this wouldnt have changed things 
because he said the new provider wouldnt have been able to send all the necessary 
paperwork to Standard Life until 3 November.
Our investigator thought that by 3 November Standard Life had received everything it 
needed to commence the transfer. But, it didnt action the request until 13 November. He 
thought thered been an unreasonable delay actioning the information Standard Life had 
received on 3 November. If it had actioned that instruction when it received it, he thought 
the transfer wouldve completed on 17 November  and not 26 November.
He also thought it wasnt fair to delay transferring the cash by up to two months whilst the in 
specie transfer was taking place. He said Standard Life had acknowledged this when it had 
stepped outside its own process and transferred the cash before the in specie transfer had 
completed. So, he thought it was fair and reasonable to say that all of the assets, including 
the cash couldve been with the new provider by 17 November 2020.
Our investigator said Standard Life should compensate Mr B for the delay. It should
determine what the value of his pension would have been if the process had started on 3 
November, the funds transferred on 16 November and received by Mr Bs new provider on 
17 November.
Standard Life didnt accept what our investigator had said. It pointed out:
Mr Bs transfer was an in specie transfer. This was a complex process.
It had previously explained to Mr B and his advisers that the in specie transfer would 
be completed first  before any sells would be placed for the rest of his fund. This 
ensured that he remained invested throughout the process. This was in line with 
what the majority of pension providers did.
Standard Life could have received the acceptance on 3 November if it hadnt made 
the error with the email address but, even if it had received the instruction at that 
date it didnt have instructions to place the sells.
The proposed redress had been incorrectly based on this being a cash transfer 
when this was in fact an in specie transfer.
Our investigator considered what Standard Life said but he didnt change his view. He 
thought Standard Life had everything it needed on 3 November to commence the transfer. 
It didnt have to wait until the in specie transfer was completed before transferring the cash. 
And, it had ultimately transferred the cash before the in specie transfer was complete. It 
couldve offered to do this much earlier.
Mr B accepted what our investigator said.
Because Standard Life didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out at the outset that in this decision Im only dealing with that part 
of Mr Bs complaint which relates to his Standard Life SIPP. His complaint 
about the Standard Life ISA is being dealt with separately.
Ive considered the sequence of events here and Ive provisionally decided not 
to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why:
Standard Life received a request to transfer Mr Bs SIPP to another provider on 
28 September 2020. The application form signed by Mr B was a request to 
fully transfer his benefits in cash. Attached to the application form was an 
instruction form from the new provider which indicated that the request was for an in specie transfer and there was an asterisk beside this referring to a 
handwritten note which stated that the suspended property funds were to be 
transferred in specie with all other funds transferred as cash.
Standard Life sent a valuation listing for each of the funds in the portfolio to the 
new provider on 8 October 2020  but, it accepts it sent that valuation listing to 
an incorrect email address.
So, Ive thought about the impact this error had on the overall process here.
Ive looked at the information on the email dated 8 October 2020 (which went 
to an incorrect email address). It said that in addition to a cash amount there 
were four funds in Mr Bs SIPP which could be transferred to the new provider 
in specie. The cash amount would be transferred once all the assets were re-
registered.
Three of the funds listed were suspended but Standard Life confirmed that 
they were eligible for re-registration. The fourth fund, known as the Standard 
Life Property Fund, was also suspended. Standard Life said it was unable to 
convert or sell this fund and it said its understanding was that the new provider 
was unable to hold this share class  but it asked the new provider to confirm 
the position.
So, because of the status of the fourth fund, it was the case that Standard Life 
wouldve needed to agree to a partial transfer of Mr Bs SIPP. The SIPP for 
Wrap terms and conditions stated that Standard Life would only agree to a 
partial transfer if, in its reasonable opinion, it was cost effective for it to process 
the transfer or to administer the part left behind.
Despite not having received the email of 8 October, Ive noted that Mr Bs 
financial adviser was able to issue an instruction on 29 October that only the 
suspended funds were to go in specie and all the other funds were to be 
transferred as cash including the Standard Life property fund when it became 
tradeable.
Ive thought about the reasons why the adviser was able to issue that 
instruction despite the email having been sent to an incorrect address. I can 
see that Mr Bs financial adviser was also advising Mr Bs wife in relation to a 
similar request at this time. As a result queries had been raised with Standard 
Life about whether a part transfer of that SIPP could be facilitated. This was 
not a straightforward query. It took Standard Life about ten days to respond. 
But, given the fact that this was a complex query I dont think Standard Life 
took an unreasonable period of time to respond to the query.
So, Im persuaded, on balance, that even if Standard Life had sent the 
valuation listing to the correct email address it would still have been 29 
October 2020 before Mr Bs financial adviser wouldve been aware that 
Standard Life was agreeable to a partial transfer here. It was because of that 
the adviser was able to issue the instruction that the suspended funds were to 
be transferred in specie and the Standard Life Property Fund was to be 
transferred as cash when it became tradeable.
It was only after this instruction was issued to Standard Life that the new 
provider realised it hadnt received the valuation listing. It contacted Standard 
Life on 3 November and asked for the valuation listing. This was sent on 7 November. The email was an important part of the process. In the email 
Standard Life said:
It is of utmost importance that a thorough and complete asset  
acceptance exercise is completed.
The new provider completed this exercise and Standard Life received the 
acceptance on 11 November. The in specie request was picked up on 13 
November and the transfer process commenced on that date. The re-
registration was completed on 30 November 2020.
Ive considered the length of time taken to complete the in specie transfer after 
the date when Mr Bs financial adviser issued the instruction dated 29 October 
2020. It took a month after that date to have the in specie transfer completed.
When an in specie transfer is requested Standard Life issues a document 
entitled Wrap Quick Guide  In specie transfers out  WRAP SIPP. This 
document was sent to the new provider with the valuation dated 7 November 
and it included the following wording about expected timescales:
Whilst there is no industry guidelines with regards to Inspecie 
transfers, we are very reliant on third party timescales and through on 
going analysis have found that its not unusual for straightforward 
Inspecie transfers to take six-eight weeks.
Having considered everything, Im not persuaded there was an unreasonable 
delay actioning or completing the in specie transfer requests. As set out in 
Standard Lifes guide, this process can take longer and involves different 
parties. In this case the in specie transfer was completed just over a month 
after Mr Bs financial adviser issued the instruction that only the suspended 
funds were to be transferred in specie.
Ive then considered the length of time it took Standard Life to transfer the cash 
in Mr Bs SIPP to the new provider. Ive noted that the cash element in the 
SIPP was a significant proportion of the value of the overall SIPP.
As mentioned above Standard Life had to agree to accept a partial transfer of 
the SIPP before any part of it could be transferred to the new provider. It 
appears that after it had confirmed this, Mr Bs adviser contacted Standard Life 
on 29 October to say that the suspended funds could be transferred in specie 
and everything else was to go in cash.
Standard Lifes procedures are that it wont transfer cash until all of the re-
registrations have completed. It says thats in line with industry standard. But, 
although Mr Bs advisers wouldve known about this process (because theyd 
been told about it in relation to Mr Bs wifes transfer request in early October) 
they werent formally told about it in relation to Mr Bs application until they 
received the new valuation on 7 November 2020. So, Ive thought about 
whether the process and the date when Mr Bs advisers were formally told 
about it in relation to Mr Bs application created an unfair outcome here.
One of the reasons why Standard Life doesnt transfer any cash in the SIPP 
until all the re- registrations are complete is to ensure there is enough cash to 
pay client income payments whilst the transfer is being processed and also to 
cover any ongoing charges that apply to the SIPP. I think this is a fair and reasonable explanation for its procedure. And, even if the email of 8 October 
2020 had been sent to the correct email address  Standard Life wouldnt have 
been required to change its process or the outcome as regards the time when 
the cash would have been transferred.
It is the case that Standard Life appears to have stepped outside its own 
process as regards the time when it transferred the cash in Mr Bs SIPP. It 
transferred the cash to the new provider before the in specie transfer had 
completed. Our investigator thought it couldve offered to do this earlier in the 
process.
Ive looked at the reasons why Standard Life transferred the cash when it did. I 
can see that Standard Life was aware of the complaint about delays and 
because of that it decided to go ahead and transfer the cash before the in 
specie transfer had completed. The cash was received by the new provider on 
25 November. At that point the in specie transfer was already well under way. 
It completed on 30 November. So, although I dont think Standard Life was 
obliged to transfer the cash before the re-registrations completed I think it 
wanted to respond to the complaint about delays by transferring the cash 
earlier than required under its procedure  I think that was fair and reasonable.
Having considered everything here, I dont think there was an unreasonable 
delay actioning Mr Bs request to transfer his pension fund to another provider. 
So, I dont intend to require Standard Life to have to take any further action.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, my provisional decision is that I do not intend to 
uphold this complaint about Standard Life Savings Limited.
Mr Bs representative confirmed he had received my provisional decision. He didnt make 
any further comments.
Standard Life also confirmed it had received my provisional decision. It said it didnt have 
anything further to add. 
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. I havent received any new or 
further information. So, theres nothing that persuades me to change my view, or the 
reasons for my view, as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Standard Life Savings 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 Irene Martin
Ombudsman