DRN-2561028
The complaint
Ms H has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) cancelled her motor 
insurance policy and did not pay her claim.  
What happened
With two days remaining on her current MOT certificate, Ms H took her car to a garage for a 
MOT test. Her car failed the test. Ms H said the garage let her leave the garage in her car 
and she says they did not tell her it was too dangerous to drive. Ms H said the garage 
advised her to get the repairs done elsewhere where she may get the work done cheaper.
After Ms H left the garage, she was involved in an accident.  She telephoned Tesco the next 
day to report it and to make a claim against her insurance policy.
Ms H said she chased Tesco after a week as she had not heard anything.  She thought their 
customer service was poor. Ms H was told her car was a total loss and she was offered 
either £1,900 for the car to be scrapped or £1,600 to keep the car. Ms H said she was 
informed by Tesco that she could take her time over making the decision.
Very soon after, Ms H says she received a text from Tesco cancelling her insurance policy. 
Confused, Ms H called Tesco to understand what had happened. Ms H said she was told 
she was stupid for leaving the garage with a car that was clearly dangerous to drive and had 
a failed a MOT. Tesco told her she had failed to keep her car roadworthy and in so doing so 
had breached the terms of her policy.
Ms H said she was upset and complained that she: had not been paid for her claim, her 
policy had been cancelled unfairly and for the customer service she received. Ms H said she 
doesnt understand how they have changed their mind, from offering her money, to not 
paying her claim and cancelling her policy.
Tesco investigated Ms Hs complaint and decided to reject it. They said the car had failed its 
MOT due to dangerous defects and there were other major defects listed which required 
repair. Tesco said the car was unroadworthy and shouldnt have been driven on the road.  
Tesco said this breaches a term of their policy, which requires the policy holder to keep their 
car in good working order.
Our investigator gave his view on the case and concluded that Tescos decision to not pay 
Ms Hs claim and cancel her policy was unfair. He also asked Tesco to pay £150 for the 
trouble and upset caused.
Tesco do not agree with our investigators view and so I have been asked to make a final 
decision on the case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 11 January 2021. I said:
Around a month after the accident, Tesco sent Ms H a letter to give notice that they were 
cancelling her policy. However, on the day of the accident Ms Hs insurance policy hadnt 
been cancelled, so even if I thought it was fair of Tesco to cancel the policy I would still need 
to consider if the claim was refused fairly. I will consider the cancellation and the claim 
separately.
Cancellation of claim
Tesco cancelled Ms Hs policy as they said she had not complied with specific terms of her 
policy:
The policy holder must take all reasonable steps to protect the car against loss or 
damage, and
The car must be kept in good working order
Tesco said that her MOT had failed due to dangerous defects and other major defects.  The 
MOT certificate warned that the car should not be driven until the dangerous defect had 
been repaired. Tesco said this showed that her car was unroadworthy and shouldnt have 
been driven on the road. 
Tesco cancelled the policy as they said Ms H did not follow the advice, so she failed to take 
reasonable steps to protect the car from damage.  She had also failed to keep her car in 
good working order.  As these conditions of the policy had been breached, Tesco cancelled 
her insurance.
I think Tesco have provided clear evidence that the policy terms had been breached and I 
think its unreasonable to expect Tesco to cover someone who has driven the car despite a 
MOT failure that warns not to drive the car until it is repaired.  So, I intend to not uphold this 
aspect of the complaint.
Claim
When an insurer doesnt pay a claim, my role is to see if I think its fairly declined the claim. 
When doing so Ill look at the circumstances, policy terms and industry guidelines such as 
ICOBS (Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook). 
Tesco originally discussed with Ms H a value for her claim, but they have since explained 
this was retracted once they became aware of the failed MOT. Tesco rejected the claim for 
the same policy breaches highlighted in the section above.
ICOBS, says that an insurer can only decline a consumer claim due to a breach of policy 
condition if its material to the loss. In this case, a condition of the motor policy was that the 
vehicle is kept in good working order and the policy holder must take all reasonable steps to 
protect the car against loss or damage. Tesco have provided evidence from the MOT that 
the car was not in good working order when it was involved in the accident.  However, Tesco 
can only decline the claim if it can show the issues with the car were connected to the 
accident.
Ms H has said the third party from the accident had admitted liability for the fault and Tesco 
chose not to pursue the third party for the claim (as they had said Ms H had breached her 
policy). Tesco also said they dont know if the issues with the car contributed to this accident 
and they have not provided any evidence during the complaints process to show that they 
did.
I dont think Tesco have identified a connection between the identified defects from the MOT 
and the claim.  They havent shown that the defects were likely to have played any part in 
the incident. Therefore, using the guidance of ICOBS, I dont think it is fair for Tesco not to pay the claim. I intend that Tesco fulfil their initial offer to Ms H and pay the claim, less the 
policy excess (£100 compulsory, £300 voluntary).  In addition, as Ms H hasnt had the use of 
the vehicle or the money due to her, I intend Tesco to pay interest on the claim amount at 
8% per year from the date of the accident to the settlement date.
Tesco said that Ms H should have sought recovery of her loss from the insurer of the third 
party involved in the incident.  But given her own insurance policy was still valid at the time 
of the accident, it is within her rights to make a claim against her own policy.
Finally, I have considered the trouble and upset this mistake has caused Ms H. Following the 
misfortune of the accident, she has not received the customer service she needed at the 
time she needed it most. She has also had to manage without a car, borrowing her partners 
car when she can.  She has often had to wake up earlier in the morning and walk to work.  I 
dont think the £150 our investigator awarded sufficiently compensates for these 
inconveniences, so I intend to award £300.
Responses to my provisional decision
I have received comments back following my provisional decision. The business has said 
theyre happy to cover the claim as normal, but simply paying a settlement amount without 
any validation seems unreasonable. It would also hinder their attempts to recover the costs 
from the other insurer if they cant document where all the settlement came from.
The business has also explained that until they recover all the costs, Ms H will have to
disclose a fault accident to any future insurers, which may affect her premium. So, it does 
seem in her interests for the validation to take place.
For this reason, I have decided to amend the redress and I intend Tesco to:
pay £300 for trouble and upset caused
cover Mrs Hs claim plus 8% interest per year, less the £400 policy excess (Tesco to 
make settlement within 28 days)
Mrs H asked whether Tesco will be retrieving the car from her drive, so Tesco need to 
explain to Mrs H the rest of the claim process.
I allowed a further 7 days for either party to make any further comments, at which point I said 
I will make my final decision.
I received no further comments from Tesco and Ms H was provided some clarification to 
help her understanding.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision and amended redress.
 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint. For the reasons I have given I require Tesco to:
pay £300 for trouble and upset caused
cover Mrs Hs claim plus 8% interest per year, less the £400 policy excess (Tesco to 
make settlement within 28 days)explain to Ms H the rest of the claims process
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Peter Averill
Ombudsman