DRN-3168336
The complaint
Mr L complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua have defaulted his account unfairly.
What happened
Mr L suffered financial difficulties. As a result of this he contacted Aqua in November 2019 to
inform them of his personal circumstances. Aqua applied a hold to Mr Ls account for three
months which supressed interest and charges. It also meant that Aqua wouldnt pass his
debt onto a third party during this time and they wouldnt actively pursue him for the
outstanding amount.
Aqua sent Mr L a letter dated 27 December 2019. This letter was a default notice that said
that Mr K had until 17 January 2020 to pay his arrears or to contact them before this date to
make an arrangement. The letter said that if he did neither then they would terminate his
account. Mr L did neither. On 18 January 2020, Aqua wrote to Mr L to explain that they had
terminated his account and he should contact Aqua to make an affordable repayment plan if
he couldnt pay the full arrears.
Mr L contacted Aqua on 11 March 2020. On the call, Aqua took Mr Ls income and outgoings
to see if a repayment plan could be arranged but no agreement was reached. On 14 April
2020, as Aqua had received no payments since September 2019, they wrote to Mr L to
inform him that they intended to register a default with the credit agencies at any time after
28 days of the date of the letter. The letter explains that a default would show on his credit
file for six years and urges him to contact them to set up a repayment plan.
Mr L says that in June 2020, he received a letter informing him his account had been
defaulted. Mr L says he contacted Aqua to find out what the letter was about and was told he
needed to raise a complaint and he did so.
Aqua did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. They said that the default had been applied in line
with the terms and conditions of his account. As he had not been making his contractual
payments and they had sent him three letters detailing what needed to be done and the
consequences of either not paying the arrears or setting up a repayment plan. Mr L brought
his complaint to our service. He questioned why Aqua didnt call him if they were going to
register a default against the account. Mr L has since repaid the outstanding balance in full.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said although Aqua didnt have a copy
of the call in March 2020 when Mr L proposed a payment plan, he did have access to the
system notes which suggested that Mr L was going to provide Aqua with medical evidence
they had asked for but it didnt appear he contacted them again before the account
defaulted. Mr L asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He didnt believe Aqua
had sent letters to his address. He also said he couldnt log into his online account when the
account was on hold.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties dont agree on several points. So Ive looked at all of the information available to
me in order to decide what is more likely to have happened and when, on balance of all the
evidence here.
When Mr L informed Aqua of his financial difficulties, I can see that Aqua put his account on
hold. This would supress interest and charges and this would ensure that his account
wouldnt be passed to a third party debt collection company. But it would not stop arrears
building up or a default being registered.
A default can only be registered when a customer has been in arrears for at least three
months. A notice of default was issued to Mr L on 27 December 2019, as it had been three
months since Aqua received a payment from him. I know Mr L disputes that this letter was
posted by Aqua and said this was a bank holiday. So I asked Aqua if they could prove that
this letter was posted  and the other letters they said they sent, by providing me with
screenshots to confirm this. Aqua were able to provide me a screenshot to show that default
notice was sent on 27 December 2019, which was not a bank holiday. So although Mr L
says he didnt receive this letter, Im satisfied that Aqua did send the letter.
This letter was followed up by another letter which Aqua have provided proof that this was
sent. From this information, I can see that the letter was dated 18 January 2020 and was
sent to Mr L on 21 January 2020. This letter was addressed to Mr Ls registered address
also and informed him that his account had been terminated.
Ive next considered what happened on the call in March 2020. Mr L says he was told not to
worry about the payments as the account had been frozen. Our investigator had already
asked Aqua if they could provide us with the call recording, but unfortunately, due to the time
which has elapsed since the call was made, there is no recording of it. So Ive considered
what both parties have said about this call and what was likely to be discussed on the call on
the balance of probabilities.
Aquas system notes are detailed about this call. They show that Mr L had contacted them to
set up a repayment plan and Mr Ls health still affected him being able to manage his
account. The notes state that Mr L wants to keep his money for emergencies. The outcome
of the call is to extend the hold on the account until 25 March 2020 to allow Mr L to send
Aqua a health assessment. There are no notes to suggest Mr L was told about not to worry
about making repayments as his account was frozen. Thats not to say that Mr L wasnt told
this, but I think on the balance of probabilities, if this was said to him, it would be in the
context of not worrying about making repayments until the medical evidence is sent to them
by the 25 March 2020. But this was never received by Aqua, so it did not allow Aqua to see
how further they could help him.
Ive considered what Mr L has said about how Aqua should have rang him to let him know
that a default would be registered and that it was only because of his health situation that
they didnt do this. But Aqua arent required to ring a customer when they intend to register a
default, irrespective of any health conditions a customer may or may not have. Aqua wrote to
Mr L in April 2019 to confirm they intended to register the default with credit reference
agencies. So even if Mr L was under the impression from his call the previous month with
Aqua that he didnt have to pay, then Im persuaded that this should have made it clear to Mr
L that Aqua intended to register the default with credit agencies. But the next time that Mr L
contacted Aqua, based on Aquas system notes was in June 2020, after the default had
already been registered  Aqua confirmed that the account defaulted on 29 May 2020.So the default was registered as the arrears hadnt been settled, in line with their process.
Im satisfied Aqua have treated Mr L fairly by sending multiple letters by post explaining the
arrears position and the consequences of not paying the arrears. So even though Mr L says
he wasnt able to log in online to see his statements and digital letters, the letters relating to
the default werent sent digitally, they were posted. Aqua also asked him for further medical
information to aid a repayment plan in March 2020, but ultimately Mr L didnt contact them
with the required information by the deadline they gave him. Aqua also had placed the
account on hold which would supress any interest or charges and the debt being transferred
to a third party debt collector, but it wouldnt stop the account from defaulting.
So Im satisfied that Aqua have fulfilled their duty and registered the default correctly. But I
cant say that Aqua have treated Mr L unfairly for the reasons already given. So it follows
that I dont intend to ask Aqua to take any further action.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final
decision. Aqua responded to my provisional decision and had no further comments for me to 
consider. Mr L did not accept the findings of my provisional decision, but he did not offer any 
new information for me to consider by the deadlines given.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party presented me with any further information to consider, then my final 
decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman