DRN-3721761
The complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires refused to 
accept a reduced amount in settlement of his buy to let mortgage and secured personal loan 
and didnt send him a redemption statement. 
What happened
Mr H has a buy to let mortgage and secured loan with Birmingham Midshires. In March 2021 
he received an offer to buy the mortgaged property  but it wasnt enough to clear the 
balance outstanding, service charges and other costs associated with selling. Mr H said he 
asked Birmingham Midshires to consider a reduced settlement amount to repay the balance. 
But Birmingham Midshires never got back to him.
Mr H said that the property is empty as the tenant left when Birmingham Midshires 
threatened repossession. He has now lost the offer to buy the property and is left to maintain 
the mortgage and other costs relating to the property. 
Mr H said he had been disputing the balance of the mortgage with Birmingham Midshires 
since 2019. He had over £40,000 equity in the property at that point and now he has almost 
nothing., He wants Birmingham Midshires to accept £100,000 in settlement of the mortgage.
In September 2021, Birmingham Midshires said it would accept £150,000 in settlement of 
the Mr Hs debts. But Mr H declined that offer because Birmingham Midshires said he owed 
£156,093  and that was £10,000 less than hed been told in March 2021.
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. He said that Birmingham 
Midshires should pay Mr H £200 to reflect that it didnt set out how the balance was made up 
in September 2021. The investigator didnt think Birmingham Midshires was responsible for 
Mr H not selling his property.
Mr H didnt accept what the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears that Mr Hs relationship is with Bank of Scotland trading as Birmingham Midshires. 
The complaint was originally set up against another bank bank in the same group. But Im 
satisfied the correct business is Bank of Scotland trading as Birmingham Midshires. 
I am not considering any complaint about the balance of the mortgage or secured loan as 
part of this complaint. That is being dealt with separately. I cant see how I could reach a fair 
outcome on whether the balance was correct in March or September 2021 while there is 
another investigation going on into whether the balance was/is correct. That would involve 
me making findings on the balance that would interfere with the ongoing investigation and 
potentially restrict he findings the investigator could make. And I note that Birmingham 
Midshires final responses to the issues with the balance were issued after this complaint 
was referred to us. 
The facts of this complaint arent in dispute. It took two weeks for Birmingham Midshires to 
send Mr H a redemption statement. That was longer than it should have been. And it took 
around six months for Birmingham Midshires to agree a reduced settlement figure. Again it 
wasnt fair or reasonable for Birmingham Midshires to take that long. And the information on 
the settlement agreement wasnt clear. I can see why Mr H questioned it. In saying that Mr H 
was contractually obliged to pay the full amount due (although the balance due is disputed). 
It was a concession for Birmingham Midshires to agree to accept a reduced amount. And I 
can see why that might have taken longer than Mr H wanted  although six months was 
unreasonable.  
Where a business has made a mistake, the starting point for me is to put the affected party 
back in the position they would have been in had the mistake not occurred. 
Mr H considers that he wasnt able to sell the property because the offer he had wasnt 
sufficient to repay the mortgage and loan and meet other costs associated with selling. But 
even if Birmingham Midshires had responded in a reasonable timescale, I dont have 
sufficient evidence that the sale of the property would have gone through. I say that because 
Mr H hadnt exchanged contracts. There are many reasons why a sale might fall through. 
I also understand that Mr H took his property off the market in March 2021. This was his 
decision. But I dont see how Birmingham Midshires could fairly be held responsible for any 
losses and costs he has incurred as a result of that. While I appreciate why he couldnt 
accept the offer hed received in March 2021, his actions prevented the possibility of another 
offer being made. That may have been sufficient to cover any of the losses he is now 
claiming.
I accept that Mr H has been caused distress and inconvenience because of what happened. 
But I am only making an award to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by 
Birmingham Midshires where it hasnt acted fairly or reasonably. Mr H was already in a 
stressful situation. His mortgage was in arrears, hed lost his tenant and hed had to manage 
the ongoing cost of the property. I dont consider that Birmingham Midshires is responsible 
for all of the distress and inconvenience that Mr H has experienced as a result of this matter. 
I agree that its failures have contributed and added to the stress Mr H has suffered. But after 
careful consideration, I consider that a total payment of £500 is a fair amount to compensate 
Mr H for Lloyds errors. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires should pay 
Mr H a total of £500 in respect of this complaint  less any payments it has already made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman