DRN-3171315
The complaint
Mr N complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as ALPHERA Financial 
Services (BMW Finance), misrepresented a finance agreement. He says he thought hed 
entered into a hire purchase agreement and didnt realise there was a balloon payment if he 
wanted to buy the car at the end of the agreement. He wants BMW Finance to write off its 
invoice for damage charges and to compensate him.
What happened
Mr N took out a four-year finance agreement in September 2017 to obtain a second-hand 
car. He says the agreement he signed required monthly payments of around £177. There 
was no mention of a balloon payment. But, when he called BMW Finance around three 
months before the end of the agreement, he was told there was a final balloon payment of 
£3,491. He decided to voluntarily terminate the agreement and was charged £413.41 for 
damage to the car. He thinks the charges for damage should be written off  because if the 
agreement hadnt been misrepresented, he would have owned the car at the end of the 
agreement.
BMW Finance said the terms of the agreement, including the balloon payment, had been 
agreed by Mr N at the outset. It sent him a notice of default for the damages as he hadnt 
paid them.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded the 
balloon payment and the terms were clear and that there wasnt evidence to show the 
salesperson had misled Mr N. She also didnt think BMW Finance had treated Mr N unfairly 
in charging him for damage to the car when it was returned.
Mr N didnt agree. He said, in summary, that 
He asked for a hire purchase agreement not a personal contract purchase agreement 
(PCP). He understood a hire purchase agreement would not require a balloon payment 
at the end. If the contract had been correctly headed as a PCP, he wouldnt have signed 
it.
The salesperson said the contract was £177.61 a month with no balloon payment.
He believed he would own the car at the end of the agreement, after making the required 
monthly payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N said he wanted a hire purchase agreement. And I can see that this is what he signed. 
A hire purchase agreement has the option to buy the car at the end of the agreement when 
the final payment is made. This final payment can be larger than the monthly payments and 
is usually known as a balloon payment. A PCP is a type of hire purchase agreement which 
will usually have smaller monthly payments and a larger balloon payment. 
Under the terms of the hire purchase agreement, Mr N contracted to pay £177.61 each 
month for 47 months with an optional final payment of £3,491.00 if he wanted to keep the 
car. I think the agreement and the payments required were reasonably clear. 
Mr N wrongly thought that a hire purchase agreement could not include a balloon payment. 
And he says the salesperson only told him about the monthly payments. I cant be sure 
exactly what was discussed when Mr N decided to obtain the car through finance, so Ive 
relied on the paperwork that was completed. I can see Mr N signed to say the agreement, 
including the payments, had been explained to him. As Ive found the agreement set out 
these payments reasonably clearly, I find it unlikely that the salesperson could have 
misrepresented them.
Mr N said he thought he would own the car at the end of the agreement. And, had he made 
all of the monthly payments and the optional final payment, he would have owned the car.
Overall, I dont find the agreement was misrepresented.
When Mr N returned the car, it was inspected, and Mr N received an invoice for damages. 
The hire purchase agreement says:
If the Vehicle is not returned in good repair and condition (allowing for fair wear and tear), 
we will charge you a set cost for each item or damage we would have to repair or to return 
the Vehicle to the state we expected it to be in (we use recognised industry standards to 
determine this). These charges reflect the cost to us in carrying out the works needed.
The inspection report includes photographs which I find support the reported damage. I find 
BMW Finance has fairly charged Mr N for the damage, in line with the agreed terms and 
conditions. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont find there is any obligation on BMW Finance to reduce 
or write off the damage charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman