DRN-3665935
The complaint
A limited company, that Ill refer to as S, has complained about Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limiteds refusal of a claim for business interruption cover under its business insurance 
policy. 
Mr H, as director of S, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
S is an estate agent. In early March 2020, S was concerned about the possible effects of 
Covid-19 on its operation and contacted Hiscox to discuss the situation.  Hiscox assured S 
that if it was required to close there would be cover under the policy. 
S closed following the Governments announcements later in March 2020. Mr H says it was 
not clear if it had to close completely, but he contacted a local councillor, who told him to 
close. Mr H says he also received a call from the District Council saying that, even though 
estate agents were not on the Government list of businesses required to close, S should 
close until further notice. 
On 26 March 2020, S made a claim to Hiscox for its losses. When S phoned to chase this in 
early April 2020, Hiscox said the claim was not covered after all. 
In its final response to Ss complaint about this, dated 22 June 2020, Hiscox said it should 
not have told S that there was potentially cover, as the policy does not in fact provide cover 
in the circumstances. Hiscox said there were two possible sections of the policy that might 
be relevant to the claim. One is the public authority section which provides cover for losses 
arising as a result of S not being able to use its premises following closure by a public 
authority but S was not one of the types of business that was required to close as part of the 
Governments March 2020 restrictions and had been permitted to continue to operate. 
The second, non-damage denial of access section provides cover if access to the insured 
premises is hindered or denied by restrictions imposed by a government or public authority, 
as a result of an incident within a mile radius of the premises and this is not the case here. 
Ultimately, Hiscox said that Ss losses were due to the loss of market and this is not covered 
under the policy. 
Hiscox however, offered £1,000 compensation for giving S incorrect information earlier in 
March 2020. 
In June 2022, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued a business interruption 
insurance test case in which it asked the courts to consider a sample of policy wordings and 
how they should respond to the pandemic. One of the policies considered in this case had 
the same wording as Ss policy with Hiscox. Hiscox said in its final response letter that it 
would review Ss claim again once the outcome of that case was known. The Supreme Court 
handed down its judgment in January 2021. Hiscox considered Ss claim again, following 
that judgment but maintained its position.
Mr H is very unhappy that the claim has been rejected and the misinformation provided in its 
early calls with Hiscox. It has made a number of points, which Ive summarised below: 
It did not receive the final response letter of 22 June 2020. 
It was assured its business losses would be covered and it relied on this assurance. 
As a result, it was put in an uncomfortable position of having to find out if there were 
any deaths from Covid-19 within a mile of its premises. This caused a great deal of 
upset as it is based in a small community and it damaged its reputation locally.
It took a £17,000 business interruption bounce back loan because it thought the 
claim would be settled. 
Hiscox sent an email about the complaint to an email that was supposedly removed 
from Ss account in January 2021. Hiscox also mixed up its policy with another 
policyholder and it thinks sent its data to another policyholder.
Hiscox didnt progress its complaint while the test case was going on. Despite 
chasing, S still didnt hear anything so in March 2021 submitted its claim again to 
Hiscox.
S wants its claim met, together with interest and compensation for the stress caused and 
failures to communicate and breach of data. 
Investigators assessment 
One of our Investigators looked into Ss complaint. He said that some matters had not 
previously been raised with Hiscox and could not therefore be considered as part of this 
complaint, namely the data issues and delay in progressing the claim. He considered the 
misinformation in the phone call in early March 2020 and the refusal of the claim but didnt 
recommend the complaint about these matters be upheld as he didnt think the policy 
provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
The Investigator also thought the £1,000 compensation already offered by Hiscox was 
reasonable compensation for the misinformation provided and did not think there was 
enough evidence that S would not have taken out the bounce back loan if it were not for that 
misinformation.
S still thought that the policy should provide cover and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
In the meantime, S said that there was very little information available to it at the time of the 
call with Hiscox and the claim and the assessment of the complaint is being made with the 
benefit of hindsight; it was reassured in the call with Hiscox that the business was safe and 
Hiscox would do the right thing. 
S also stressed that the industry press talked about mandatory closure of estate agents and 
the housing market reopening in May 2020. S also referred to minutes from the House of 
Commons about the housing market reopening and a letter from the Department for 
Levelling Up, Housing and Communities dated 7 April 2022, which S says proves its staff 
had to stay at home and away from others and that the office had to be closed to the public. 
Mr H also says he did not receive Hiscoxs letter of April 2020 refusing the claim, so there 
was no way of it knowing cover was in question when it took out the loan and the loan was 
absolutely taken out in the expectation of the claim being met. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S has made a number of detailed points. I have considered them all but Im not going to 
address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central 
issues to this complaint. This reflects the informal nature of our service. 
I am also only dealing with the refusal of the claim and the information given in the 
March 2020 calls in this decision. 
Its evident from Ss submissions that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a significant financial 
impact. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business insurance policies provide protection for some of the common things which might 
happen to a business. No policy will cover every eventuality however and each policy may 
provide different cover. 
I have considered Ss entire policy carefully. The business interruption section of the policy 
provides cover for a number of events, most of which clearly do not apply to the 
circumstances of this claim. I have considered the most relevant parts of that section of 
cover below: 
Public Authority 
This provides cover for losses caused solely and directly from an interruption to the business 
caused by: 
your inability to use the insured premises due to restrictions imposed by a public 
authority during the period of insurance following  
b. an occurrence of any human infectious or human contagious disease, an outbreak 
of which must be notified to the local authority 
The term inability to use in relation to policies with the same wording as Ss was 
considered as part of the FCAs test case. The Supreme Courts judgment said, at 
paragraph 129: 
The public authority clauses in Hiscox 1-4 (set out at para 111 above) do not cover 
all business interruption due to restrictions imposed by a public authority following 
an occurrence of a notifiable disease. They apply only where the interruption is 
caused by the policyholders inability to use the business premises due to such 
restrictions. 
The court went on to say, at paragraph 136: 
 an inability of use has to be established; not an impairment or hindrance in use. 
There were restrictions imposed by a public authority following an occurrence of Covid-19 
and Covid-19 is an infectious disease, the outbreak of which must be notified to the local 
authority. I dont consider that this occurrence needed to have been either at or in the vicinity 
of the premises. And I dont consider that the restrictions needed to have specifically 
targeted the claimant business alone. The court also made it clear that it may be possible for 
a business to claim for losses that arose out an inability to use its premises for a discrete 
part of its business activities. As such, this policy term would provide cover to a business 
that had been caused an inability to use their insured premises, for all or for a discrete part 
of its business. As such, this extension would provide cover to a business that had been 
caused an inability to use their insured premises.So the question is whether or not S suffered an inability to use its premises. 
I agree to an extent with S that it is not just the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) 
(England) Regulations 2020 (March Regulations) which are relevant to considering this 
question. However, these regulations were important in setting out which businesses were 
required to close. 
Ss business doesnt seem to fall clearly into any of the types of business specifically 
mentioned in the March Regulations, either as being a business that was required to close or 
that was permitted to stay open. Ive therefore considered all the evidence to determine 
whether it is reasonable to conclude that S was required to close. 
Non-essential shops and some other retail service industries (such as hair salons and 
leisure centres) were listed specifically as being required to close, as were theatres, 
cinemas, museums. These categories of business would all seem to be places that 
members of the public could gather or attend for recreational, non-essential retail purposes 
and sometimes for services that could not be undertaken at a distance (such as hair 
dressing services). I do not think that estate agents would fall into the same category as the 
businesses that were specifically required to close.  
These regulations did impose other restrictions on people that would likely have had an 
impact on businesses that were able to remain open. For example, the restrictions on 
movement that required people to remain at home without a reasonable excuse. But the 
reasonable excuses included both to travel to work and to move home.
The court did also make it clear that it may be possible for a business to claim for losses that 
arose out of an inability to use its premises for a discrete part of its business activities. But I 
dont consider S has shown it was unable to use its premises for a discrete part of its 
business either. 
S has referred to activities that it couldnt carry out, but it remained an option to S to work 
from its premises if it wasnt reasonably practical for its staff to work from where they lived. 
And I also note that estate agents were able to offer online viewings of properties.
Ive also considered the letter from the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and 
Communities dated 7 April 2022 provided by Mr H in support of his complaint says: 
Government guidance specified what actions estate agents could take during the 
period of housing market closure in March 2020. Although estate agent premises and 
show homes could not be opened to the public, estate agents were not prohibited 
from working during this period. The guidance stated that estate agents should 
continue to provide support to clients and could still take action to progress sales 
where this could be done whilst following guidance to stay at home and away from 
others. 
I think this confirms that S was not required to close. Ss staff were not prohibited from 
entering their own premises. Members of the public might not have been able to enter them 
but this is different. The restrictions on movement that required people to remain at home 
without a reasonable excuse, would have all meant that the demand for Ss services fell. But 
the policy requires that this results in an inability to use the premises. And while this will have 
affected how they were used, this did not result in an inability to use the premises, as 
required by the policy. Ss staff were still able to use the premises. And as stated above, 
were able to conduct online house viewings. I also agree that the restrictions imposed always have to have the force of law. But I do 
consider that there must be a mandatory instruction that is given by a public authority. 
S says that its district council instructed it to close and it was generally understood that the 
housing market was closed.
A local authority would be deemed to be a public authority in my opinion. S has not provided 
any independent evidence (such as a telephone recording or a letter) to support what he 
was told by his local authority. However, he says he was told that even though estate agents 
were not on the list of businesses required to close under the March Regulations, it should 
close our doors.
However, I dont think there is enough evidence that the local authority told S it had to close 
the business. As mentioned above, customers may not have been allowed to enter Ss 
premises, which is consistent with what S says it was told by the local authority. However, 
Ss employees were able to use the premises and S was still able to operate and conduct 
meetings and viewings with customers remotely.
So, whilst I do not doubt S suffered a disruption to the normal operation of its business, the 
policy requires that there be an inability to use its premises. And I do not consider S suffered 
such an inability to use its premises. As such, I do not consider Hiscox acted inappropriately 
in declining Ss claim under this section of the policy. 
Although S might have had an expectation that its claim would be covered, or understood 
the same from a Government announcement, whether that is the case would still depend on 
the wording within its specific policy. And in this case, I dont think Ss policy provides cover 
for its claim. 
Non-damage denial of access 
The policy also covers financial losses resulting solely and directly from an interruption to its 
business caused by: 
an incident occurring during the period of insurance within a one mile radius of the 
insured premises which results in a denial of access or hindrance in access to the 
insured premises, imposed by any civil or statutory authority or by order of the 
government or any public authority, for more than 24 consecutive hours. 
Ive already stated above that I do not think S was prevented from accessing its premises. I 
dont intend to make a finding on whether Ss access to the insured premises was hindered 
because I dont think that any restrictions were as a result of an incident. 
Again, I think the FCA test case is relevant to Ss claim as clauses such as this were 
considered as part of that case. The High Court said (at paragraphs 404-405) about the that 
an incident: 
it is a misuse of language both generally and on the correct construction of the  
clause to describe the pandemic as an incident let alone an incident occurring 
within a one mile radius of the insured premises
It follows that there is no cover under the NDDA [Non-damage Denial of Access] 
clause in respect of business interruption losses caused by the restrictions imposed 
by the government in response to the national pandemic.This part of the judgment was not appealed to the Supreme Court and so is relevant case 
law. As part of considering all of the circumstance of this complaint, I am obliged to take into 
account relevant case law and I see no reason to depart from the findings of the High Court. 
Im not persuaded that an occurrence of Covid-19 within one mile means that there was an 
incident which prevented or hindered Ss access to its premises. Therefore, I think Hiscox 
has acted fairly and reasonably in finding that this clause doesnt cover Ss claim. 
March 2020 telephone call 
Hiscox acknowledged that S was provided with misleading information during a telephone 
call in March 2020. S was told there would be cover if it was required to close but without 
explaining there were conditions to that potential cover which would have to be met. I can 
see that this did therefore raise Ss expectations of cover. 
However, Hiscox is not bound by the statements made in that call, such that it should be 
required to disregard clear policy terms and meet the claim. The policy terms are sufficiently 
clear and are not inherently unreasonable. 
I have considered the impact the misinformation in that call had on S. 
S has said it made business decisions in reliance of the statements to it about the claim 
being covered, including taking out a bounce back loan which it thought could be repaid 
with the claim settlement. Mr H says the loan amount was received on 6 May 2020, which 
was around a week after he applied for it. 
The telephone call took place on 12 March 2020. Mr H has said he did not get the final 
response letter dated June 2020 and also recently said he did not get a letter in April 2020 
stating the claim was not covered, so as far as he was concerned they were just waiting for 
the claim to be paid. However, Ss complaint form says: 
I submitted an original claim on the 26 March 2020 and heard nothing back so I 
chased them on the phone again. To my shock I was then told that I was not 
covered, in direct contradiction to what I had been told! I then put in a complaint 
about this on the 12 April 2020. I then call again on Wednesday 22 April 2020  she 
promised that I would have a response to my complaint by the end of the week. 
So, the misinformation in the phone call was corrected by Hiscox by early April 2020. Mr H 
was therefore aware the claim was not being met before the loan was taken out. I do not 
therefore think that the loan was taken out solely due to anything Hiscox did wrong. 
Mr H is also particularly unhappy that he says he was made to go to the local vicar to ask 
about Covid-19 related deaths in the area. I have not seen any evidence that Hiscox told S 
to get such evidence. Mr H may have thought that was required to establish his claim but I 
do not consider Hiscox is responsible for this.  
In any event, I can only consider and make an award that recognises the impact of any 
wrongdoing by a financial business on an eligible complainant. In this instance, the eligible 
complainant is a limited company, rather than any individual. A limited company cannot 
suffer distress or frustration. So, I cannot consider the impact on Mr H personally of this. 
Having considered everything, I think the offer of compensation already made by Hiscox is 
reasonable in all the circumstances. I appreciate this is a matter Mr H feels very strongly 
about, and Im mindful of the consequences my decision may have on S. But I havent found 
Hiscox acted unfairly in declining its claim. Im therefore not directing Hiscox to do anything 
further. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint, as Hiscox Insurance Company 
Limited has already made a reasonable offer in full and final settlement of the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman