DRN-3836255
The complaint
Mr C says that Marshall Motor Group Ltd (Marshall) mis-sold him a cosmetic repair 
insurance policy and an alloy wheel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C bought both a cosmetic repair insurance policy and alloy wheel insurance policy 
alongside a new vehicle purchase. During the first year it transpired that he no longer 
needed the policies, so he cancelled both. The administrator of the policies refunded a pro-
rata amount less an administration charge to Mr C. 
Mr C was very unhappy with this. He said that he wasnt aware there was an administrator, 
or an underwriter involved in these policies. He says he was told they were Marshall 
products. He says hes had a bad experience before and if hed known the policies were 
administered and underwritten by separate third parties, he would never have bought them. 
Mr C says he was misled and as such he believes the policies were mis-sold. He says 
Marshall have breached the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and he would like a full refund. 
Marshall disagrees. It says it provided Mr C with all the documentation required, and that this 
documentation set out clearly who the third-party administrator and underwriter are.  An 
investigator reviewed the complaint but said Marshall hadnt done anything wrong. 
But Mr C doesnt agree, and he has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr C has put forward a lot of correspondence and arguments to support his complaint. The 
crux of the complaint is that Mr C says he was never made aware that these two insurance 
products were administered and underwritten by separate third parties. Mr C says hed never 
have bought the policies if hed known this. Mr C says it was Marshalls responsibility to be 
clear, fair and not misleading. He says Marshall has breached the Consumer Rights Act 
2015, and the policies have been mis-sold to him.
There are two types of sale, advised or non-advised. This was a sale aligned with a car sale, 
and its not clear which type of sale happened here. But Mr C says the product was 
recommended to him. So, in the absence of any other proof wed say the sale was advised. 
This carries a higher level of responsibility on the seller. It means that Marshall was required 
to provide Mr C with sufficient information in a way thats clear, fair and not misleading. 
In his emails to this service, Mr C says he did agree to these policies. And he says he did 
receive the emails with the links. But he says it wasnt clear there were links in the emails, 
and he didnt realise he had to click on the links. Mr C says because of this the emails are 
non-binding on him, and its for Marshall to prove that he read these documents. 
But thats not the case. When purchasing a policy  even in an advised sale, the consumer 
also has some responsibility to make sure they understand what they are purchasing. Its 
Marshalls responsibility to send the documents and its up to Mr C to read what was sent. 
The emails Ive seen contain a link to the policy terms and conditions. Ive clicked on the 
links and the policies that appear clearly state the name of the underwriter on page two and 
the administrator on pages three or four. It is very clear who the administrator and 
underwriter are, on the pages that are headed Contractual Agreements and about your 
policy.
As such, Im satisfied it was made clear to Mr C that there was an administrator and 
underwriter linked to both of these policies. I know Mr C says he didnt realise he had to click 
on the links. But even the screenshot and email Ive seen says important information about 
your cover can be found below: And the link below this sentence is highlighted in blue.
I do acknowledge Mr Cs point that everything connected to the policies, the welcome letters, 
the invoices and even the app are all in the name of Marshall. He also says that neither of 
the third parties were mentioned at the point of sale, nor was it clear from the email. Mr C 
says the email in particular was unfair and it breaches the Consumer Rights Act 2015. He 
says therefore its not binding. 
But I dont agree. This is a Marshall branded product that is administered and underwritten 
by two separate third parties on behalf of Marshall. And as long as that is made clear in the 
policy terms and conditions, which are then provided to Mr C, that is all thats required. 
Further to this there is a 30-day cooling off period in the terms and conditions, which allowed 
Mr C a time period to cancel the policies and claim a refund if he wasnt satisfied with the 
warranty. 
Mr C also says that there are boxes ticked on the forms, that he didnt tick. And hes 
provided many reviews from a third-party provider that he says show that Marshall lie and 
deceive. But in the same email Mr C confirms that he did agree to purchase the policies. So, 
I can deduce from this that he wanted the policies and agreed to buy them. And any reviews 
provided from online websites relate to separate issues and separate unrelated complaints, 
so I cant consider them in this final decision.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. But from what I can see, Marshall has 
done everything that was required of it at the point of sale. As such, I dont uphold this 
complaint and I wont be asking Marshall to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 July 2023.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman