DRN-3881468
The complaint
Mr L complains about how Stonerock Finance Limited have handled a mis-sold Packaged 
Bank Account (PBA) claim for him.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr L said he instructed Stonerock to act for him in making a mis-sold PBA 
claim. He said apart from one email saying they were progressing his claim hed heard 
nothing more from them despite he said sending in excess of 20 emails to them. Mr L 
complained to Stonerock. But said he didnt get a response. Mr L referred his complaint to 
us.
Stonerock said Mr L was told that as hed made his PBA complaint with his lender in October 
2020 it was too late for them to handle his claim as he was outside of the six month 
timeframe for referring his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They said Mr Ls 
subsequent emails had fallen foul of their malicious content checks  and so would have been 
diverted from their claim handlers.
Our investigator said by not responding to his emails, Mr L hadnt been updated about what 
was happening to his claim that his PBA had been mis-sold. She said Stonerock should pay 
Mr L £100 for the distress and inconvenience this had caused.
Both parties agreed to the investigators outcome. But Stonerock havent paid Mr L any 
redress. Mr Ls complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A PBA is generally a normal current account bundled with a range of insurance policies and 
other additional benefits, for example, preferential interest rates.
Mr L had a final response from the lender of his PBA dated December 2020. I can see this 
was in response to a complaint made by Mr L about his increased overdraft charges. And his 
understanding that by him having a PBA his overdraft would be charged at the lowest rate.
The final response said that the preferential lower rate attributed to his PBA had stopped in 
April 2020. They said theyd change Mr Ls bank account to reflect this, and his rewards 
would be carried across. The final response letter also gave Mr L referral rights to bring his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service if he remained unhappy with the outcome. 
The final response also gave the timeframe Mr L had to bring his complaint to the service. 
As the final response was dated 14 December 2020, he would have had six months from 
that date, so up to 14 June 2021.
I can see from emails that Mr L has sent to us that he was in contact with Stonerock in early 
June 2021 before the timeframe for referring his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service was reached. And that the content of the final response letter was discussed.
In an email exchange dated 21 June 2021 Mr L is told his complaint about the sale of his 
PBA hadnt been addressed in his lenders final response and that theyd progress his 
complaint about the mis-selling of the account. 
In August 2021, Mr L signed a letter of authority (LoA) instructing Stonerock to act on his 
behalf in making a mis-sold PBA complaint. I can see that Mr Ls understanding was that this 
was a new complaint and that Stonerock would refer his complaint to his lender.
Stonerock said that theyd told Mr L that they couldnt consider his complaint as it was 
brought too late. And that they hadnt responded to his other emails as theyd fallen foul of 
their malicious content checks. This meant the emails werent sent to their claim handlers as 
theyd a duty of care.
The Claims Management: Conduct of Business sourcebook ( CMCOB) is the specialist 
sourcebook for regulated claims management activities. And provides guidance to claims 
management companies (CMC) such as Stonerock.
CMCOB 6.1.9 R (1) says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least 
once every six months, in a durable medium.
And CMCOB 6.1.10 G (2) says:
The firm should give updates under CMCOB 6.1.9R until such time as the claim is finally 
determined or settled, or is withdrawn or discontinued.
While I understand the actions of Stonerock in safeguarding their claim handlers. I dont 
think it was fair or reasonable that Mr L wasnt informed as to the progress of his claim. 
Stonerock said his claim was out of time to be made, but this conflicts with the information 
theyd given to Mr L in an email, which says theyre progressing his claim.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that this has caused Mr L distress and inconvenience as he 
didnt know what was happening with his claim. I cant say whether Mr L has lost the 
opportunity for him to make a claim for a mis-sold PBA. And this would be for Mr L to 
consider whether he wants to pursue this with his lender. My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Stonerock Finance Limited to pay Mr L £100 for distress 
and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman