DRN-3172166
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service hes been provided, and the problems hes encountered 
with an online platform when hes tried to place trades within his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP). Although all communication has been with a third party, the responsible 
entity for this platform and Mr Ss SIPP is Financial Administration Services Limited (FASL), 
so I will refer to it throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr S held a SIPP which was administered by FASL. Part of his agreement with FASL was 
that he would have access to its online platform which would enable him to make trades 
within his SIPP.
On 25 March 2020 Mr S tried to access the trading platform as he wanted to make a trade. 
He found he was unable to get access so called FASL on the telephone. He was put through 
to the brokerage team but when it was answered Mr S was no longer on the line.
Mr S experienced further issues with being unable to gain access to the trading platform on 
29 April 2020 and again on more occasions in May 2020.
Mr S complained to FASL on each of these occasions but didnt feel like his complaints were 
being resolved. So, he complained to our service in June 2020 about the problems hed 
experienced and the way FASL were handling his complaints. He also complained that 
FASL hadnt allowed him to transfer the cash element of his SIPP to another provider. Whilst 
our investigation was ongoing, on 16 September 2021 he told us that hed experienced 
further problems with the platform in November and December 2020.
Our investigator explained that the way FASL dealt with Mr Ss complaints wasnt something 
that our service could consider, as complaint handling isnt a regulated activity under the 
Financial Conduct Authority rules. But she did look into the other problems Mr S had 
experienced with FASL when accessing the online platform and trying to trade.
Our investigator acknowledged that there were some occasions when Mr S experienced 
problems when trying to access the online platform, but she didnt think it was fair to hold 
FASL responsible for these as they had probably been caused by the amount of online traffic 
during market volatility brought about by the Coronavirus pandemic. And FASL had provided 
an alternative telephone number through which trades could be conducted, so our 
investigator thought it had done enough to help. 
Mr S said he had tried to call this number on 25 March 2020 but had disconnected after 
being on hold for over 20 minutes. Our investigator listened to a recording of the call and 
heard that it was connected to the brokerage team, but Mr S was no longer on the line. She 
acknowledged that being on hold wouldve been frustrating, but due to it happening in the 
early days of the pandemic the delay was understandable, and she couldnt say FASL had 
done anything wrong. 
Our investigator also noted that the complaints Mr S had raised about the problems in 
November and December 2020 had been logged and dealt with separately by FASL and 
couldnt be considered as part of this investigation. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said in summary:
The platform did go down and he had screen shots to show this.
Platforms operated by other companies werent affected at the time. The problem 
was a capacity issue on the FASL platform.
He was waiting for over 20 minutes on the telephone line before disconnecting, which 
was not an acceptable timeframe.
The investigator hadnt addressed that he was unable to transfer his cash to another 
provider.
He wanted the issues in November and December 2020 investigated as well.
Our investigator considered his response but didnt change her view. 
She explained that although FASL had experienced problems with its online platform, our 
service cant assess whether its platform is fit for purpose or that it should change it. And it 
was most likely that the technical issues hed experienced were due to the amount of traffic 
on the platform. And FASL had been fair in providing an alternative way of conducting the 
trade on the phone. Although hed had to wait on the line, this was due to the exceptional 
circumstances at the time and she didnt think FASL couldve reasonably done anything 
else.
She also said that a refusal to conduct a requested part-transfer of his SIPP was included in 
its terms and conditions. The request was at FASLs discretion and was dependent on 
whether it thought the transfer and the ongoing administration would be cost effective. So, 
although it may have been frustrating, FASL was acting within the terms and conditions of 
the SIPP, and as such was entitled to refuse the request.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the complaint to be escalated to 
an ombudsman, so the matter has been referred to me for a decision. In addition, he 
submitted that; 
Our service should review the cost to FASL of the part-transfer to see if we 
considered it was cost effective to conduct.
He was paying an annual fee for an online service that he couldnt access.
Our service shouldve asked FASL to show what steps it had taken to improve its 
service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I must make clear that this decision only relates to the problems Mr S experienced on 
25 March 2020, and the subsequent problems he experienced in April and May 2020 when 
attempting to access the online platform. As the investigator explained, the complaints he 
made to FASL in November and December 2020 are separate issues and have not been 
considered as part of this decision. 
I think it would be helpful to explain our services role. We are not here to punish a business 
when they make mistakes or treat their customers badly. And we cannot mandate a business to improve its systems or processes  that is the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Our service looks at whether a customer has been treated fairly, and if 
mistakes or errors have been made, we try to ensure the customer is put back in the position 
they wouldve been had the error(s) not been made. So while I understand Mr Ss 
frustrations that he considers FASLs platform is not fit for purpose, and hed like us to ask 
FASL to show what it has done to improve its systems, Im afraid that is outside of our remit.
It is fair to say the early stages of the pandemic caused considerable concern in the financial 
markets, and a resulting volatility. So, it is understandable that Mr S was particularly 
frustrated in being unable to access the on-line platform and trade funds in his SIPP. But the 
situation was unprecedented, and businesses and consumers had to try and adapt to the 
changing situation relatively quickly. 
On 25 March 2020, and again on occasions in April and May 2020, Mr S wanted to trade the 
funds within his SIPP, but he was unable to access the online platform. There is no definitive 
proof as to why this was the case. FASL has said there is no log of any technical issues on 
these days, but I dont doubt Mr S when he says he couldnt get access. I think the most 
likely explanation for this problem is the amount of traffic on the system at that time, which 
wouldve likely been far higher than normal due to the market volatility. So, I agree Mr S was 
inconvenienced here and acknowledge that this must have been frustrating, especially as he 
was paying for the functionality to enable him to make his own trades.
But I need to decide if FASL treated Mr S fairly at these times. And FASL did provide a 
phone line as an alternative to the on-line platform, which Mr S called on 25 March 2020. But 
he was put on hold for more than 20 minutes when being put through to the brokerage team, 
so hung up before it was answered. Again, I acknowledge this wouldve probably been very 
frustrating, but these were unprecedented times for everyone. Phone lines being unavailable 
or reduced service caused by staff being moved to working from home isnt unreasonable. 
And Mr Ss call was answered, but unfortunately this was after he had disconnected.  
So, whilst I agree that Mr S was inconvenienced by not being able to access the online 
platform, I cant say FASL treated him unfairly as it provided an alternative. Although I agree 
it must have been frustrating to be put on hold, I dont think it was unreasonable given the 
unprecedented circumstances at the time.
I have also considered FASLs refusal to allow Mr S to transfer the cash element of his SIPP 
to another provider. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of his SIPP account and the 
relevant part states the following:
If you ask us to transfer only part of your account(s), we may not agree to the transfer 
if, in our reasonable opinion it wouldnt be cost effective for us to process the transfer 
or to administer the part of your account(s) thats left behind.
So, under the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account, this was a decision that FASL was 
entitled to make, and this isnt an unusual clause. But having seen FASL was able to refuse 
Mr Ss request, I also need to be satisfied that it didnt treat Mr S unfairly when it made this 
decision. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr S had compelling reasons or 
extenuating circumstances which wouldve meant the part-transfer was essential and its 
refusal was unfair. So, Im satisfied FASL doesnt need to do anything else in this regard.
My final decision
For all of the reasons above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman