DRN-2799090
The complaint
Mrs C has complained about Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited (Watford). She 
isnt happy that her premium increased following a non-fault claim under her car insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs C was unfortunately involved in an accident in May 2019. The accident was recorded as 
a fault claim to start with. It was still showing as a fault claim when the policy renewed in 
November 2019. 
Mrs Cs premium had increased significantly at the November 2019 renewal. She was now 
paying double what shed been paying in the previous policy year. She said that Watford had 
told her that the premium would be recalculated if she was found not to be at fault for the 
accident. This meant that even though shed found cheaper insurance elsewhere, she 
decided to pay the higher renewal premium and stay with Watford. 
After the claim had been resolved and shed not been found at fault, Mrs C called Watford to 
ask them to calculate her premium refund. But instead they told her that her premium would 
go up by £11.20. 
Watford agreed to waive the additional £11.20. But Mrs C was still unhappy that her 
premiums had increased so much that policy year, even though shed only had a non-fault 
claim.
Mrs C complained to Watford as she wanted them to refund her the additional premium 
shed been charged, as she felt shed been promised.
Watford didnt uphold her complaint. They said theyd offered her the best premium they 
could at the time. And they said she couldve got insurance elsewhere if shed preferred. 
Unhappy with their response, Mrs C brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. She gained evidence from Watford which showed Mrs C had 
been treated the same as any other consumer in her position. 
Mrs C still felt her premiums shouldve gone down, not up, after the claim status was 
changed to non-fault. So her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence, Im afraid Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mrs Cs frustration here. As she was involved in a non-fault claim she didnt 
think her premium would or should increase. She feels that her premium shouldve gone 
down once the claim was resolved in her favour, to reflect there not being a fault claim on 
her record. And an additional year of no claims bonus. I understand why shed think that.
But that isnt how the insurance industry works. All incidents and claims can impact risk and 
in turn premium. And the maximum no claims bonus on her policy is 9 years. Mrs C had 17 
years of no claims bonus history, so the additional year wouldnt have had any impact on her 
premium.  
This service cant tell insurers how much to charge for their policies or what risks they can 
and cant consider when deciding premiums and costs. Thats a commercial decision that we 
cant interfere with. But we do look at individual complaints and look to ensure customers like 
Mrs C arent treated differently or unfairly. And Im satisfied that she hasnt been. Ill explain 
why. 
Insurers (not just Watford) have a lot of evidence to show that many factors can affect risk, 
even a non-fault claim. This is because insurers can show that for people whove been 
involved in incidents - whether non-fault claims or fault claims - risk increases to varying 
degrees. And they have evidence to support this. They use such factors alongside driving 
history, postcodes, age of consumers and a number of other factors to determine risk. As 
long as they do this consistently and treat everyone in a similar position the same, this 
service doesnt interfere. 
So Ive looked at how Watford calculated Mrs Cs premium, taking account of the risk and 
the fact shed been involved in a non-fault accident. I know Mrs C would like the increase in 
premium returned, but Im satisfied Watford have acted fairly and treated her the same as 
any other consumer wouldve been in her position. Unfortunately I cant share the data 
Watford provided as its commercially sensitive. But Ive checked over the data and Im 
satisfied what theyve shown me shows they fairly calculated the revised premium. 
Mrs C said shed shopped around to gain a more competitive insurance quote. And that she 
didnt take the cheaper quote shed found because Watford explained that theyd refund any 
additional premium shed been charged while the claim was open. 
Ive listened to all thirteen call recordings Watford sent us. Unfortunately a recording of the 
call where Mrs C said she was told shed be refunded for any additional premium wasnt 
available. So I dont know exactly what she was told. I acknowledge that while Watford did 
recalculate her premium after the claim had been resolved, the result wasnt what she was 
expecting. But Watford did do what they said theyd do. And their calculations were accurate.
I can see why Mrs C decided to stay with Watford at renewal, despite the large premium 
increase. She was expecting to get that additional premium back. But Watford did 
recalculate the premium as theyd said they would. And from what Ive seen, theyve not 
treated her differently from other customers. So I cant reasonably say theyve treated her 
unfairly. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mrs C. But I havent found that Watford 
have done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman