DRN-3183573
The complaint
Miss B complains that The Protection Specialist Limited trading as The Fair Trade Practice 
(TPSL) havent fully investigated her claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance 
(PPI) and failed to submit her complaint to our service. 
What happened
Miss B instructed TPSL to enquire about any accounts she held where she mightve been 
mis-sold PPI. Miss B says she was assured by TPSL that a claim against Lender Y was 
being progressed. Miss B says she called TPSL in November 2020 and was told they 
couldnt take the claim forward as there was a document which suggested Lender Y couldnt 
be pursued for any claims. Miss B says she queried this further a couple of months later and 
was told this information wasnt correct and the reason TPSL couldnt take the claim forward 
was because the claim was outside of time. TPSL explained they had received Lender Ys 
final response letter in November 2020  but it was dated February 2020. And, this meant it 
was now more than six months since Lender Ys final response so they couldnt take the 
complaint to our service. Miss B complained.   
TPSL responded and explained they submitted a Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) to 
Lender Y on the date of the PPI deadline of 29 August 2019. Through this process, it was 
confirmed that Miss B had PPI on her mortgage account with Lender Y. A full letter of 
complaint was then sent to Lender Y in October. TPSL explained they hadnt heard back so 
they reissued their letter of complaint a few months later. TPSL said their office then closed 
due to the lockdown brought about by Covid-19 and Miss Bs file was then assessed when 
their office reopened in July 2020. TPSL said they still hadnt received a response from 
Lender Y at this point so they reissued the letter of complaint again, but this time by 
recorded delivery. TPSL said they then received a response in November from Lender Y 
saying they had issued their final response in February. TPSL explained they didnt receive 
the letter in February but as the timeframe for complaints to be referred to our service had 
passed, they had no option but to close the claim. TPSL said, they werent responsible for 
Lender Y not issuing them with a copy of the final response until nine months later.  
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B. He thought TPSL hadnt acted unreasonably. 
Miss B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Miss B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The information shows Miss B signed TPSLs letter of authority and this was received by 
them on 28 August. TPSL then issue the DSAR to Lender Y the following day. Around a 
week later, Lender Y confirm Miss B did hold PPI on her mortgage account. A letter of 
complaint is then submitted to Lender Y on 16 October. I cant see any response is received 
so TPSL chase on 27 January 2020 and enclose a copy of the letter of complaint. They say 
they havent yet received a response and ask for an update. Having still not received a 
response, a further chaser is sent on 16 July. This is sent by recorded delivery.   
I can see theres a letter dated 13 August from Lender Y to TPSL enclosing a copy of their 
letter of 2 February. The August letter says the timescale to refer the complaint to our 
service starts from 2 February. TPSL have provided system notes which show the August 
letter is logged on their system in November. The letter dated 2 February is addressed to 
TPSL and says Lender Y have completed their enquiries and havent identified anything 
which shows they acted in a manner which was unfair so they dont uphold the complaint.  
Taking this all into account, I think TPSL have fully investigated Miss Bs claim and a final 
response has been issued. I think TPSL have taken all necessary steps to investigate 
whether Lender Y had mis-sold PPI to Miss B. That said, a customer has the option to 
escalate their complaint to our service and I can see Miss B is also concerned about TPSLs 
decision not to take her claim forward along this route. So, Ive looked at their reasons for 
this and what led to it.   
The information shows Lender Ys final response is dated 2 February 2020. The information 
from TPSLs system shows this letter was received with a covering letter dated 13 August  
but this wasnt received until November. Even at the point the August letter was sent, it was 
already six months after Lender Y issued their final response. So, given that Lender Y 
reminded TPSL that the six months starts from 2 February, it was clear they believed the 
complaint was now out of time to refer to our service. In view of this, I cant say TPSL acted 
unreasonably in saying they couldnt take this forward. I do acknowledge TPSL say they 
didnt receive the February letter until after the six months had passed but given Lender Ys 
stance I cant say TPSL shouldve taken any further steps. 
I can see our investigator has asked Miss B whether she has any evidence which shows the 
February letter was received by TPSL within six months of it being sent. Miss B says she 
contacted Lender Y and they could only confirm the final response letter was posted by 
second class mail to TPSL and Miss B. And, Miss B also confirms she didnt receive the final 
response at the time. So, without any evidence to show the final response was received by 
TPSL within six months of it being sent, Im persuaded by the information on TPSLs system 
showing this wasnt received until November. 
The next point Ive considered is whether TPSL couldve taken action sooner given that 
Lender Y werent responding to their letters. As mentioned above, there was a deadline of 
29 August 2019 for all PPI claims to be submitted to a lender. In light of this, lenders 
received an unprecedented volume of PPI checking enquiries and complaints around this 
time, mostly from Claims Management Companies (CMCs). So, lenders faced very 
significant operational challenges. The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
issued guidance in October 2019 setting out what they expect from CMCs. The guidance 
said that although the usual timeframe to provide a final response is eight weeks, The 
current circumstances also mean that most PPI complaints will not now get a final response 
within the usual 8 weeks. Instead, we understand that typical response times to complaints 
may sometimes stretch well beyond 24 weeks. 
In addition to this, the FCA also said many lenders are acknowledging complaints more 
slowly than usual so they suggest CMCs should allow a reasonable length of time before 
expecting an acknowledgement. They suggested at least three months. The FCA also said 
we expect CMCs to allow lenders a reasonable amount of time to give a final response. In 
considering what is a reasonable amount of time for a lender to provide a final response to a 
PPI complaint, we will consider the current very high volumes and operational challenges. 
We would expect CMCs to do the same. I acknowledge Miss B is concerned TPSL left things too long but, in assessing TPSLs 
actions against the FCA guidance, I dont think theyve acted unreasonably. Following the 
letter of complaint being issued, TPSL dont receive an acknowledgement so they chase 
three months later  so this falls within the timeframe set out in the guidance. TPSL say their 
office was then closed at the end of March 2020 due to lockdown restrictions so they 
couldnt take any action. Also, given the FCA guidance, TPSL wouldve been allowing 
Lender Y at least 24 weeks to issue a final response. This wouldve taken the response time 
to April 2020, at which point TPSL say they were closed. And, its important to note, the FCA 
guidance says some response times may stretch to beyond 24 weeks. In light of these 
factors, I dont think it was unreasonable for TPSL to leave it until July to chase again  and I 
think they took reasonable steps in sending this letter by recorded delivery. From there, it 
was outside TPSLs control when Lender Y would respond. So, while I understand Miss B 
might feel TPSL couldve referred her complaint to our service sooner  and perhaps six 
months after sending the original letter of complaint  I dont think this wouldve been 
following the spirit of the FCA guidance in allowing lenders a reasonable and additional 
amount of time to provide a response. 
I note Miss B feels she wasnt initially given correct information about TPSLs reasons for not 
being able to take her claim forward. TPSL acknowledge this and their notes show the 
advisor Miss B spoke with accepts they mightve misheard Miss B when they explained their 
reasons for closing the claim and thought the call related to another lender. In any event, the 
reason for TPSL not being able to take the claim forward is explained to Miss B later and I 
cant see the original inaccurate information had any impact as it was still the case that TPSL 
couldnt continue with the claim.         
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman