DRN-3491689
The complaint
Ms Ts complaint was made jointly with her husband, but their respective complaints were 
thereafter separated. This decision is only about the issues in her case, about her pension 
and investment accounts. In her husbands August 2020 complaints to Define Financial 
Planning Limited (trading as Define Wealth (DW)), which was submitted for their joint 
issues, reference was made to matters concerning her accounts and accounts belonging to 
her husband and children. The allegations in the complaint about her accounts were that:
DW neglected to review and transfer her accounts to a new investment platform as it 
was instructed to do in June 2019 and as it had initiated in March 2019. No action 
was taken by the time DW was chased/prompted by her husband in February 2020. 
Despite that, DW took no action thereafter until July 2020, when it issued a proposal 
that presented a disputed fee. [issue 1]
DW applied a separate initial advice fee, to her, for the transfer of her accounts 
despite its work in this respect already being covered by the £2,500 initial advice fee 
it agreed with her husband. [issue 2]
Ms T seeks compensation for financial loss arising from issue 1. DW disputes the complaint. 
It mainly says:
At no time prior to February 2020 was it instructed to conduct work towards the 
transfer of Ms Ts accounts. It engaged with and met her husband during 2019 and 
up to early 2020 but they were engagements about his accounts and it met with him 
only  Ms T was never present. Her pension was mentioned on a generic basis 
during a meeting with him in June 2019 but not to the extent of instructed work. It did 
not have servicing rights for her pension so her express agreement and instructions 
in this respect, and for any work, were required. Any work would also have been 
dependent on fact finding and a suitability assessment, which also required her 
express instruction/agreement. None was given. It issued a risk profile review for her 
on 6 December 2019 but that was an isolated matter related to the servicing it 
provided to her Individual Savings Account (ISA). The risk profile review that was 
conveyed to her also asked for her response, but none was received.
Her husband refers to a history in which the DW adviser engaged with him (only) but 
on the basis that the same work conducted for him would be conducted for Ms T. 
This relates to history with the adviser in his previous firm(s), not with DW, and this 
had/has no bearing on the manner in which DW conducted its service. 
Her husbands enquiry in February 2020, about her accounts, was a surprise as it 
had not been instructed to conduct work on the accounts and it did not consider such 
work to be outstanding. It proceeded to investigate the matter but was set back in an 
unprecedented way by the onset (and effects) of the pandemic in March 2020. Its 
operations returned to a new form of normality around June 2020 and it wrote to her 
husband in July with a proposal for her and about an associated initial advice fee, 
which they disputed. There is evidence in the fee arrangement for her husbands 
accounts that the fee he agreed did not extend to cover Ms Ts accounts.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be upheld 
 for broadly the same reasons given in DWs arguments.
Ms T disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Versions of 
issues 1 and 2 which relate to her husband and his accounts exist in her husbands 
complaint. She referred to the submissions he made in that respect, as she considers them 
relevant to the versions of both issues in her complaint. In addition, she said:
There is evidence that DW was instructed to act for her in March 2019, that her 
accounts were discussed (by her husband) with DW and that it was supposed to 
proceed with the review and transfer related work (for the accounts). It is DWs fault 
that no contact was made thereafter, that no documentation was processed 
thereafter and that no action was taken thereafter.
No response was requested in the risk profile update of 6 December 2019, in any 
event her husband contacted DW ten days later and the risk profile update exercise 
was arguably pointless because her profile had not significantly changed.
The investigator did not address her complaint about DW receiving fees she paid 
over the course of nearly two and a half years for services it did not provide [issue 3] 
and other matters about DW failing to mitigate her losses from issue 1 [issue 4], 
terminating its service to her without notice [issue 5] and failing to provide a schedule 
of her funds [issues 6].
The case was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both the cases for Ms T and for her husband were referred to me, and I have already 
determined the latter. As stated above, issues 1 and 2 overlap both cases so my findings in 
her husbands case about the versions of both issues in that case have relevance to my 
findings on the versions of both issues in her case. Ms T has acknowledged to us that issue 
3 has not been raised with DW. Issues 5 and 6 have also not previously been raised with 
DW  the joint complaints she made to DW, through her husband, presented only issues 1 
and 2 and a complaint about DWs complaint handling process. Issues that had not been 
previously made to DW were also referred to in her husbands complaint, prompting my 
explanation of the scope for my considerations in that case. I apply the same approach 
presently, so I begin with an explanation of the scope of this decision.
Scope
Our jurisdiction rules require that a complaint referred to us must have first been made to the 
relevant firm, with opportunity and time for the firm to address the complaint before it is 
referred to us. The complaints in issues 1 and 2 meet this requirement, they were first 
presented to DW and then referred to us. Issue 4 is essentially a part of issue 1  if issue 1 
is upheld and if it is found that Ms T incurred a financial loss directly as a result of it, then 
mitigation of such loss (issue 4) follows to be considered. 
Issues 3, 5 and 6 do not meet the jurisdiction requirement because they have not been made to DW, in the first instance, prior to referral to us. As such, I cannot address them.
If, as in her husbands case, Ms T also expects her complaint about DWs complaint 
handling process to be addressed, I cite the same findings I made in his case. The 
regulators dispute resolution rules for this service (at DISP 2.3.1 R) says our jurisdiction 
covers only complaints about firms carrying out regulated activities (or ancillary activities 
connected to regulated activities). The rules also say a complaint is any oral or written 
expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on behalf of, a person about 
the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, claims management service or 
a redress determination, which alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) 
financial loss, material distress or material inconvenience. 
The matter of complaint handling, in isolation, is not a regulated activity and it is not an 
ancillary activity connected to the conduct of a regulated activity. Complaining about how a 
firm internally handled a complaint is also not a complaint as defined by the rules, because 
it is not  about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service, claims 
management service or a redress determination . Sometimes a substantive complaint to 
a firm and the handling (or alleged mishandling) of that complaint by the firm can be 
connected (as parts of the same issue). For example, where the alleged mishandling of a 
complaint is said to have worsened the substantive problem or delayed its resolution. In 
such cases, determining the complaint handling aspect might then be a necessary part of 
determining the overall complaint. Ms Ts complaint is not that type of case. The events in 
her substantive complaint crystalised in July 2020 prior to the August 2020 complaint to DW, 
so the former is distinct from the latter, the latter stands in isolation and we do not have 
jurisdiction to address it.
Issue 1
Overall and on balance, I do not uphold issue 1, so I do not find DW responsible for any loss 
allegedly resulting from this issue, and issue 4 falls away.
Between February and March 2019 DW initiated the idea of reviews for Ms Ts and her 
husbands accounts and offered to conduct such reviews. There is evidence of this and it is 
not disputed. However, there is no evidence that the specific notion of transferring her 
accounts to a new platform arose at this point. The situation at the time was limited to 
conducting a general review of her and her husbands accounts.
Ms Ts husband and DW met on 27 June 2019. She was not present at this meeting. His 
assertion is that this was the meeting in which he instructed the transfer of all the accounts 
he discussed with DW, including Ms Ts. Evidence supports the fact that he instructed DW to 
provide advice specifically on the idea of transferring his accounts, but the same support 
does not exist for his assertion that this task included Ms Ts accounts. 
It is true that her husbands email to DW on 10 June 2019, prior and leading to the meeting, 
refers to his and her pensions, but consideration of communications between him and DW 
after the meeting  and mindful that they were the only communications taking place 
because there was no separate communications between Ms T and DW at the time  
shows, overall, that her accounts were not part of the subject matter. 
His chaser to DW on 10 September included the following  
 when we met a few months ago, you indicated that we should review my pension with a 
view to re-balancing it  Are you waiting for anything from me? [my emphasis]
DWs response the following day maintained the same focus on him and his accounts only. The same applies to the proposal DW sent him on 20 September. He replied on the same 
day and referred to the fees he had been paying for his accounts and the lack of service 
from DW, in return, that he perceived, and he did this as a basis to negotiate the fees 
associated with the proposal. No reference was made to Ms T or her accounts in this 
respect. DWs revised proposal in October continued the same focus on him and his 
accounts only, not Ms T or her accounts. Correspondence continued between him and DW 
in November and December on the same subject matter (transfer of his accounts) and with 
the same focus on him and his accounts only.
Other than her husbands email to DW of 10 June, none of the other correspondence 
mentioned above was sent to Ms T and none appears to have been copied to her. DW 
issued the 6 December 2019 risk profile review for her, which did conclude with a request for 
her feedback. I have not seen evidence that she gave any feedback and she does not 
appear to say she did. I should acknowledge that this too was not sent or copied to her, 
instead it was sent to her husband, but it was addressed to her (in terms of its contents) so it 
is reasonable to expect that her husband would have shared it with her and she would have 
been made aware of the feedback it asked for. Given its contents, I am persuaded by DWs 
argument that this communication was isolated in its nature. It did no more than present a 
risk profile update for her, without a specific transfer/transactional context. 
In contrast, the risk profile questionnaire that was sent by DW to her husband a few days 
earlier (on 2 December)  for his risk profile review  was expressly set within the context of 
his pension account transfer. Ms T could argue that her husbands reply, on the same date, 
referred to her and referred to completing a questionnaire for her too, so the same context 
applied to her. On balance, I disagree. I accept it is possible that the questionnaire for her  
prompted by her husbands suggestion  related or led to the review she received on 6 
December. However, DWs email of 2 December was specific in seeking the questionnaire 
for her husband only and in relation to his account transfer. It appears to have agreed to 
receive a completed questionnaire for her too only because he suggested it, and as I said 
above, the risk profile review that followed (for her) presented no specific 
transfer/transactional context.
Work towards completing the transfer application for Ms Ts husband finished in January 
2020 (and the relevant transfers were completed in February). As I address in the next 
section, nothing in the paperwork for the platform application related to Ms T. This was a 
transparent and undisputed fact at the time, which might have led him to send the enquiry to 
DW in early February about her accounts. 
Before addressing what subsequently happened, I consider it fair and reasonable to 
conclude that the balance of evidence (summarised above) of the events from June 2019, 
when the transfer of her husbands accounts became the subject matter, to January 2020 
(when application work in that respect, only, finished) shows there was no obligation upon 
DW to conduct such/similar work for Ms T, no engagement by her pursuant to such/similar 
work and no instruction from her (or her behalf) related to such/similar work. I understand 
her husbands reference to the history they had with the DW adviser, in which she delegated 
matters to him in his engagements with the adviser. However, that history appears to relate 
to when the relevant adviser worked for a different firm(s)  so that was prior to the adviser 
joining DW. Such history was not binding on DW. Its initial review invitation referred to Ms T 
and her husband, but only the latter engaged with it and instructed it thereafter, whereas it 
required such engagement and instruction from her too.
I am not persuaded to dismiss the impact upon DW  in terms of investigating into and 
reacting to Ms Ts husbands email of February  arising from the COVID-19 pandemics 
onset the following month, in March 2020. It led to a national lockdown by the end of that 
month which was not eased until June. This would have affected DW as it did other firms and the nation as a whole at the time. As such, I am also persuaded to accept its assertion 
that it regained capacity to resume looking into the matter in June and then issued its 
proposal in July. Overall, on balance and in the circumstances, this was not unreasonable. 
Ms T could find it conflicting for DW to say it was previously unable to act without her 
express engagement and instruction, but it then chose to produce the July 2020 proposal 
without the same. I too have considered this, and I can see how this could be perceived as 
conflicting. However, in the circumstances, I consider that DW probably applied a form of 
compromise in this respect by presenting the proposal to her husband as it did. Should it 
therefore have done the same earlier, in 2019? I do not consider that it should, given that  
for the reasons I set out above  it does not appear to have had cause to do so prior to her 
husbands email in February 2020.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons, I do not uphold issue 1.
Issue 2
My key findings on the version of this issue in Ms Ts husbands complaint apply to hers too. 
In the main, I found  with supporting evidence  that the platform application client 
declaration form he signed on 20 January 2020 stated the £2,500 initial advice fee, 
confirmed only his application to the platform, and confirmed that the initial advise fee was 
only for his pension account (with his pension account number, only, stated). I also cited 
evidence of associated communications between him and DW which made it reasonably 
clear to him that the fee was for his accounts only. I noted that DWs two proposals to him (in 
September and October 2019) made this clear and that the suitability report it sent him in 
January 2020 (prepared only for him) expressly referred to the £2,500 initial advice fee. 
For the same reasons, I do not accept that the fee Ms Ts husband arranged/agreed with 
DW covered her accounts too, so I do not uphold issue 2.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman