DRN-4107483
The complaint
Mr L complains that Blue Motor Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted him a hire purchase 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In September 2018, Mr L acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Blue Motor Finance. Mr L was required to make 60 monthly repayments of around £169 
followed by a final payment of around £319. The total repayable under the agreement was 
around £10,484.
Mr L says that Blue Motor Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if 
it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Blue Motor Finance didnt agree. 
It said that it carried out a thorough assessment which included credit worthiness and 
affordability checks. It said that Mr Ls checks didnt trigger any concerns and his application 
was approved in line with its credit policy. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. He thought Blue Motor Finance 
ought to have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr L.
Blue Motor Finance didnt agree and said Mr Ls credit file at the time of application didnt 
show signs of financial difficulties although it accepted he was making use of payday loans. 
It said based on Mr Ls income and that he was living with parents, its checks were 
proportionate. It noted the spending on gambling but said that this had decreased in the 
three months leading up to the agreement suggesting Mr L was getting his spending under 
control. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Motor Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
The credit check Blue Motor Finance completed showed that Mr L had previously struggled 
to meet his repayments as there were historic defaults recorded. Mr L was also making 
frequent use of short-term borrowing. I think this ought to have indicated that Mr L might be 
struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Blue Motor Finance to 
have got a more thorough understanding of Mr Ls financial circumstances before lending.
Given Mr Ls credit report results I think it would have been proportionate for Blue Motor 
Finance to have verified Mr Ls income and expenses before lending. One way it could have 
done this was by requesting copies of his bank statements. Ive reviewed three months of 
bank statements leading up to the lending decision. 
Mr Ls declared income was £2,500 a month. His statements suggest £2,500 was before tax 
/ deductions and his net income was around £2,000 a month in the months leading up to the 
lending. Mr L had limited committed expenditure which isnt unexpected given he was living 
with parents at the time. He has explained he was paying £200 a month rent and his 
statements show he was paying a gym membership and for some other living costs. I do not 
find this would cause concern. However, if verification of Mr Ls expenses had taken place, I 
think it likely Blue Motor Finance would have realised that Mr L was making frequent use of 
high-cost lenders and spending significant amounts on gambling. I think this would have 
raised concerns about Mr Ls ability to manage his money at the time such that I think 
providing him with additional lending wasnt responsible. Therefore, I do not think that Blue 
Motor Finance acted fairly by providing the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Blue Motor Finance ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair 
for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr L should 
therefore only have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £6,885. Anything Mr L has 
paid in excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ls complaint Blue Motor Finance should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr L has made in excess of £6,885, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance to take off tax from this interest. Blue 
Motor Finance must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr L asks 
for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Ltd to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman