DRN-4075154
The complaint
T, a limited company complains about the way that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) handled the 
closure of its business current account and credit card account.
T wants Lloyds to pay more compensation than it has offered so far. T is represented in its 
complaint by company officers Mr and Mrs J.
What happened
T held a business current account and credit card with Lloyds. Mr and Mrs J had decided to 
wind the business up so they cancelled all the direct debits and visited a Lloyds branch to 
close the account. Lloyds initially gave T the wrong information about how to close the 
current account.
After Lloyds told T that the current account was technically closed, it remained open and 
became overdrawn. T found it difficult to find out why the account was still open and why 
money was debiting the current account and Ts business credit card after they told Lloyds 
not to make any more payments.
Lloyds eventually told T that there had been a banking failure. Lloyds refunded various 
amounts and offered T £200. Mr and Mrs J didnt think this was enough as Mrs J had found 
the experience damaging to her health.
After coming to this service for help, the investigator explained that Lloyds originally said Ts 
account was closed on the basis that no further payments were made. However, two direct 
debits left the account which meant it remained open. 
The investigator confirmed that Ts business current account is now closed. He explained 
that as T was Lloyds customer, we couldnt compensate Mr and Mrs J personally. The 
investigator thought Lloyds offer to pay £200 compensation together with the refund of fees 
and interest, was fair.
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the investigators recommendation and point to certain 
factual inaccuracies. Mr and Mrs J say that Lloyds only offered £200 and that its misleading 
to include the refunded interest and waived charges as part of Lloyds compensation.
Mr and Mrs J dont think weve taken account of the serious nature of Lloyds failings and the 
stress felt by them. Mr and Mrs J say theyre still waiting for confirmation from Lloyds that Ts 
account has been closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr and Mrs Js strength of feeling about this matter. Theyve provided detailed 
submissions to support Ts complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope they wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail 
and have concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. 
I understand Mr and Mrs J wanted to highlight Lloyds shortcomings in the hope of changing 
banking regulations and policy. But it would be for the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority  to make decisions about the way in which businesses work. 
I know that Mr and Mrs J disagree with the investigators assessment of Ts complaint. But 
the purpose of my decision isnt to address or answer every single point raised. Instead, my 
role is to consider the evidence and reach what I think is a fair decision.
Lloyds accepts that it let T down when trying to close its business current and credit card 
accounts. It has apologised, waived fees, refunded interest and offered £200 compensation. 
Lloyds has also now confirmed that both Ts current and credit card accounts are closed. 
 
I agree that Mr and Mrs J spent more time than they shouldve had to when closing Ts 
accounts and that Lloyds gave them incorrect and conflicting information. For these failings, I 
consider Lloyds offer to pay £200 compensation together with the refund of incorrect 
charges and the waiving of fees, is fair. The refunds help put T back in the position it 
wouldve been had Lloyds not made the mistakes. And the £200 compensation reflects the 
inconvenience caused to T when Mr and Mrs J had to keep contacting Lloyds  which I 
assume diverted time away from running the business of T. 
I dont wish to appear unsympathetic to Mr and Mrs J, who explain theyve found the 
experience very stressful and damaging to Mrs Js health. However, the complainant is 
limited company T which is its own legal entity. This means I cant consider the stress that 
Mr and Mrs J have felt personally. I can only consider the impact that any mistake or 
unfairness may have had on T. For the reasons Ive outlined above, I consider £200 is fair 
when taken in conjunction with the other refunds made by Lloyds.
My final decision
Lloyds has already made an offer to pay £200 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances So, my final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay T £200 
if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman