DRN-3476336
The complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) hasnt done enough to help 
him try to recover the cost of a hotel he couldnt travel to because of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mr F used his Nationwide debit card to make payment to an online 
booking agent (the agent) for a hotel stay in Amsterdam in March 2020. 
At the beginning of March 2020, Mr F received notification the conference he was attending 
in Amsterdam was being postponed, because of the pandemic. Mr F also received 
notification from the airline he was due to travel with that he could change his ticket without a 
fee.
 
Mr F tried unsuccessfully to secure a refund from the agent for his hotel stay. So, in March 
2020 he contacted Nationwide to ask for its help in getting his money back.
 
Nationwide asked Mr F for information to support his claim. It particularly wanted evidence 
the hotel had cancelled the booking. Mr F responded promptly, providing Nationwide with 
any evidence he did have, although he didnt have anything to show the hotel cancelled the 
booking.
 
Mr F contacted Nationwide a few times over the following months to see how the claim was 
progressing, expressing his unhappiness at how long everything was taking.
 
In late June 2020, Nationwide started the chargeback process to try to recoup Mr Fs 
payment from the agent. The agent defended the claim for a refund, saying the hotel was 
open, the booking was non-refundable and the cancellation policy meant Mr F wasnt entitled 
to his money back.
 
Nationwide decided there was nothing further it could do to help Mr F recover his money.
Unhappy with the outcome and the time it had taken for Nationwide to deal with things, Mr F 
complained. Nationwide said, in summary, it had needed further evidence from Mr F to show 
the hotel stay had been cancelled. Although Mr F had provided further information, he didnt 
send them any cancellation details for the hotel stay. This delayed it raising the dispute with 
the booking agent. It said as the booking agent had provided a valid response to Mr Fs 
claim, it was no longer able to pursue matters for Mr F. It did acknowledge some customer 
service failings and offered Mr F £50 compensation.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr F complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
Mr Fs complaint. He said he didnt think there was anything more Nationwide could have 
done for Mr F through the chargeback process. In relation to the customer service Mr F had 
received, he felt the £50 compensation offered by Nationwide was appropriate in the 
circumstances.
 
Mr F did not agree. In summary, he said Nationwide should have regard to the fact there 
was a pandemic. Government advice was to not travel and on that basis his claim should 
have been upheld. He also felt the cancellation policy shouldnt apply in these exceptional 
circumstances. He highlighted again that he didnt think Nationwide had handled things 
correctly.
 
As Mr F did not agree with our investigator, the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Covid-19 pandemic brought with it many issues relating to travel which could not go 
ahead as planned. In the early days of the pandemic, it seems there were some poor 
practices by some suppliers, who were not refunding customers when they should have. 
In many instances, where the supplier hadnt refunded the cost of a service that didnt go 
ahead, customers could look to their bank for a refund and commonly the banks refunded 
customers where the supplier had failed to, when appropriate.
 
But the right to a refund when a holiday or flight hasnt happened as expected because of 
Covid-19 isnt automatic. It is dependent on the individual circumstances of each case and 
the legal position, which can be complicated. For example, if a service can legally go ahead, 
but a consumer decides not to travel because of government guidance in place at the time, 
then the entitlement to a refund from the supplier is far from clear.
 
Here, I am looking at the actions of the bank and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably 
in the way it handled Mr Fs request for help in getting his money back. This takes into 
account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier acted, but there are also 
other considerations at play, such as the scheme rules a bank has to follow and its own 
obligations.
 
Chargeback
 
Where a customer has paid for something on a debit card and seeks a refund, a bank can 
try to recover the money from the supplier through a process known as chargeback. While it 
is good practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some 
prosect of success, the circumstances of a dispute means it wont always be appropriate for 
the bank to raise or further pursue a chargeback. There are grounds/dispute conditions set 
by the relevant card scheme (Visa in this case) and if these are not met a chargeback is 
unlikely to succeed.
Having looked at the Visa scheme chargeback rules, there were two possible 
grounds/dispute conditions Nationwide could have raised a dispute under in these 
circumstances: merchandise/services not received and/or cancelled 
merchandise/services. 
Here, Nationwide raised a dispute under the condition merchandise/services not received, 
because Mr F explained he couldnt use the service. However, the dispute ground has 
specific criteria and will only result in a refund for Mr F if the service wasnt provided by the 
hotel, rather than, for example, Mr F not being able to take up the stay because of 
government restriction or because it wasnt safe for him to travel (as set out in guidance 
provided by the scheme). Nationwide said once the agent responded to say the hotel was still available, it couldnt take 
matters any further for Mr F. 
I have looked at the information provided by the agent and while it stated the 
accommodation was still open and available for Mr F to use, I struggled to identify the 
supporting document that evidenced this. I asked Nationwide to identify this document, 
however it simply re-sent what it had already provided.
 
In the absence of something more from the agent to show the hotel was still open, 
Nationwide could possibly have pursued things further and gone back to the agent regarding 
this. I have balanced this against the fact Mr F didnt have a cancellation notice/email from 
the hotel, as would usually be expected in these circumstances. Weighing all of this up, I 
think Nationwide took things as far as was reasonable in this instance. 
In any event, having looked at the overall position in Amsterdam at the time of Mr Fs 
intended stay, I think it likely the hotel was open to accept guests. On that basis, even if 
Nationwide had pursued matters further for Mr F, I think it unlikely the chargeback would 
have been successful under this dispute code as ultimately the service was still available. 
I have also considered whether the other relevant chargeback ground, cancelled 
merchandise/service, might have been a route to refund Nationwide could have explored. 
This allows for a dispute to be raised where a refund has not been paid in line with the 
cancellation policy. However, having looked at the terms and conditions of the agent and the 
non-refundable nature of the booking, made clear at the time of booking, I dont think a 
chargeback would have been successful under this dispute code either. 
I acknowledge what Mr F has said about the fact that usual cancellation policies should not 
apply given the pandemic. It is right that there were lots of scenarios where, because of the 
extraordinary circumstances of the pandemic, refunds that wouldnt ordinarily be due were 
paid. But as above, the right to a refund when a trip hasnt happened as expected because 
of Covid-19 isnt automatic. It is dependent on the individual circumstances of each case. 
I really do sympathise with Mr F. He was merely following government guidance and now he 
finds himself out of pocket to a considerable sum. But looking at what happened, the 
relevant refund/cancellation policy, and considering this carefully alongside the relevant 
chargeback scheme rules and guidance, I dont think Nationwide could have done more to 
secure a refund on Mr Fs behalf. 
Customer service
It took about three months for Nationwide to begin the chargeback process from when Mr F 
first contacted it. Although I can see it had asked Mr F for some more necessary information 
in that time, which I know caused Mr F some frustration, once it had all the information it was 
going to get, it seems it took about another six weeks or so for Nationwide to raise the 
dispute. Overall, I think the dispute could have been progressed more quickly.
In assessing what, if anything, I think Nationwide needs to do here, Ive thought about the 
fact that it was an unprecedented and unusual time for the banks, dealing with significant 
numbers of enquires from consumers looking to get money back as the global pandemic 
unfolded. I also need to take into account the operational challenges faced by firms during 
this period. 
Having looked at everything in the round, I think the £50 offered by Nationwide is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.My final decision
Nationwide has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that Nationwide Building Society should 
pay £50, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Siobhan Kelly
Ombudsman