DRN-4090498
The complaint
Mrs N complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited unfairly terminated her 
claim, delayed assessing her appeal, and provided poor customer service. 
What happened
Mrs N is a beneficiary of her employers group income protection scheme. In 2020, she 
made a claim against the policy following a diagnosis of cancer. L&G accepted the claim and 
began paying benefits in April 2021. 
The policy defines incapacity as follows. 
Own occupation
Means the insured member is incapacitated by illness or injury that prevents him 
from performing the essential duties of his occupation immediately before the start of 
the deferred period. 
Following a review in March 2022, L&G said Mrs Ns symptoms no longer met the policy 
definition of incapacity, and said it would terminate the claim in June 2022. 
Mrs N appealed L&Gs decision and sent further medical evidence at the end of April 2022. 
L&G said it would review the appeal and gave a timescale of 45 days for an answer. 
However it took much longer than this, and Mrs N was unhappy with the delay. 
L&G treated Mrs Ns appeal as a complaint, and gave its full answer in October 2022. It said 
itd had trouble obtaining a report from Mrs Ns treating oncologist  Dr G. But once it had 
received this report and reviewed the content, it had decided to overturn its decision to 
terminate the claim. The claim was re-instated and back-dated payments were made to Mrs 
N.  
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Mrs N brought her complaint to this service. She said shed 
been impacted financially due to being without the benefit payments, and said the delays 
and L&Gs handling of her claim had caused her worry and distress. In particular she said 
she thought L&G had caused unnecessary delays in looking into her appeal, didnt meet the 
timescale it originally set, and didnt contact Dr G right away. She asked to be reimbursed 
£25 for a letter she obtained from her GP and for the tax and other deductions taken from 
her backdated benefit payment, as well as compensation for the overall level of service. 
L&G said it had reviewed Mrs Ns additional complaint points about the appeal, and it offered 
her £150 in compensation and £25 for the GP letter she obtained. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. They said they thought L&G had acted 
unfairly in terminating Mrs Ns claim when it did, and should have done more to investigate 
her ability to return to work. They thought Mrs N should receive interest on the backdated 
claim payments and compensation of £600 in respect of the overall distress and 
inconvenience caused, in addition to what L&G had offered. 
Mrs N accepted the investigators view. However L&G disagreed. In summary it said it 
thought the investigator had misinterpreted some of the evidence due to a typing error in the 
view. It also said it didnt think it should be held responsible for delays in obtaining the report 
from Dr G, as it had been chasing for this, and the delays were beyond its control. It 
accepted it had caused some delays, but thought the offer of compensation it had made was 
sufficient.  
As L&G disagreed, the case has been passed to me to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say L&G has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ive reviewed all of the supplied medical evidence supplied in relation to this 
complaint. This has been summarised by the investigator in their view and is well known to 
both parties, so I wont repeat it here. 
Termination of the claim 
Having reviewed the evidence available at the time L&G originally decided to terminate the 
claim in March 2022, I dont think its decision was fair. In terminating the claim, the burden of 
proof was on L&G to show Mrs N no longer met the policy definition of incapacity, and I dont 
think it did so adequately. 
Much of the evidence took the form of Mrs Ns own self-reporting during clinical reviews with 
L&Gs nurses. I appreciate L&G had attempted to contact Mrs Ns treating Oncologist, Dr G, 
in the past without success. But Ive seen no evidence that it did this in early 2022 when 
reviewing the claim and in the lead up to the decision to terminate. And I think this would 
have been some of the most relevant evidence for L&G to consider. And, once L&G received 
a report from Dr G following Mrs Ns appeal of the termination, this persuaded L&G to 
reinstate the claim. 
Mrs N reported little change or improvement in her symptoms and abilities between the 
reviews six weeks apart in January and February 2022, however L&G made the decision to 
terminate the claim after the February review. L&G has said between the reviews, results of 
Mrs Ns latest scan had become available and were not of immediate concern.  Whilst I 
accept this, Mrs N was still reporting various physical and mental symptoms, particularly 
difficulty with her arm on the side where shed had surgery, side effects of medications she 
was prescribed and the effects of radiotherapy. And I think its reasonable to expect L&G 
should have done more to investigate how this was impacting Mrs Ns capacity, before 
terminating the claim. This could have been in the form of contacting Mrs Ns treating 
oncologist again for a report, or if this was still not forthcoming, I think instructing an 
independent medical exam or functional capacity assessment would have been a 
reasonable alternative. During the clinical review in February 2022, the nurse discussed a return to work with Mrs N 
and she became upset. Following this, Mrs N sent further details to L&G about her 
symptoms and how these would prevent her from returning to work. However, L&G went on 
to terminate the claim without addressing those points, or obtaining any additional medical 
opinion. L&G sent a return to work plan to Mrs Ns employer, and said it would continue to 
pay the benefits over the eight week return period. However Ive not been persuaded it had 
sufficient medical evidence to show this plan would be achievable for Mrs N at the time. And 
so I think the decision was unfair.
Delays handling the appeal 
L&G originally advised Mrs N of a 45 day timescale for it to make a decision on her appeal, 
and this was not met. L&G later gave additional clarification to Mrs N on what it would do 
within the first 45 days, and then went on to keep her regularly updated on its progress. 
However, it still originally led Mrs N to think that she would have a decision on her appeal 
within 45 days. And I think L&G should have set the correct expectations from the outset. 
I accept that much of the delay in assessment of the appeal was beyond L&Gs control, as it 
was chasing Dr G without a response. It contacted Dr G in July 2022, and didnt receive the 
requested report until October 2022. However, there was some delay in L&G starting to 
contact Dr G, and I think it could have acted on this sooner after receiving the appeal at the 
end of April, whereas the first request to Dr G was not sent for over a month.  And, as Ive 
stated above, I think its reasonable to expect L&G should have attempted to contact Dr G 
for a report in early 2022, before making a decision to terminate the claim. 
After L&G agreed to reinstate the claim, Mrs N received the backdated benefit payments. 
However she said the payment was sizeably reduced by tax and other deductions. Mrs N 
has asked that this service award her a payment equivalent to the deductions. However this 
isnt something Im going to ask L&G to pay, as its my understanding Mrs Ns employer 
would always have had to have made the relevant deductions from the benefit payments, as 
they are designed to cover some of her employment income. But, I dont think Mrs N would 
have experienced the distress of having a large payment unexpectedly deducted from the 
amount thought she was owed, had her claim not been terminated and her benefits had 
continued to be paid monthly.  
Other customer service issues 
Mrs N has complained about other customer service issues including the way L&G handled 
its calls with her, the timing and notification of calls, and lack of continuity of staff. Ive 
considered these points, but overall I dont think L&G acted unreasonably here and I dont 
think it needs to do anything further in respect of this. 
I can of course appreciate Mrs N was going through an incredibly difficult and distressing 
time due to her health issues, and accept it would have been upsetting for her to receive 
requests for detailed information about this. However, I think the information L&G was 
requesting was relevant and necessary to the claim. 
Ive seen evidence of occasions where L&G let Mrs N know what would happen next and 
when it would contact her again. And whilst it was unfortunate that Mrs Ns usual contact 
point left L&G and was replaced by another member of staff, I think this was beyond its 
control. In terms of the call on a day when Mrs N had not yet had her consultation, I think this 
was most likely unfortunate timing, and I dont think it was L&Gs intention to add to Mrs Ns 
worry on that day. Putting things right
As Ive explained, I think L&G unfairly terminated Mrs Ns claim, so it should pay interest on 
the back-dated benefit payments, to recognise the time she was without this money. And Ive 
found L&G didnt set clear expectations about how long the review process would take, and 
caused unnecessary delays in first contacting Dr G after receiving Mrs Ns appeal. 
I think Mrs N has suffered a significant amount of distress and inconvenience stemming from 
L&Gs decision to terminate the claim in June 2022. And Ive considered that she had to wait 
through a lengthy appeal process, and has explained she was caused significant worry as 
well as financial challenges causing her to borrow money from family, at a time when she 
was already unwell and deeply concerned about her health. 
So, in recognition of the overall distress and inconvenience caused, L&G should pay Mrs N 
£600 in compensation. This is in addition to the compensation which it has already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I direct 
Legal and General to pay Mrs N:
interest at 8% simple on the back-dated benefit payments, from the original date 
each payment was due until the date of settlement; and
£600 in respect of the overall distress and inconvenience caused, in addition to the 
£150 and £25 it has already offered.  
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mrs N accepts my final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman