DRN-2495706
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Tesco Underwriting Limited unfairly increased his motor insurance 
premium.
Reference to Tesco includes its agents.
What happened
Mr A was in an accident that wasnt his fault. As a result of the accident he had to replace 
the car on his policy. He bought a new car of the same model as his previous car but with a 
larger engine. Tesco told him it would cost him around £405 extra to insure the new car. 
Mr A increased the amount of his voluntary excess in order to bring the premium down. But it 
still increased by around £266. 
Mr A didn't think Tesco had treated him fairly and brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked into it. She didn't think Tesco had done anything wrong. Mr A didn't 
agree so his complaint's been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr As made a number of points. But I don't intend to address each 
and every issue hes raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key points at the 
heart of Mr As complaint, that hed previously asked Tesco to address. 
Mr A says that he replaced his car with a model similar to the one damaged in the accident. 
So he doesn't think it's fair that Tesco increased his premium. 
Its important that I make clear that were not the industry regulator. So its not my role to say 
how much an insurer should charge, what factors it should assess, or how much risk to 
attach to each of those factors when deciding on a premium. Insurance is essentially an 
assessment of risk. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, 
insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers will make an assessment of 
how likely they think it is that their policyholders will make a claim and what it will cost to 
settle those claims. And each insurer will go about that in its own way. So, when deciding if 
an insurer has dealt with a consumer fairly, I look to see if its treated them the same as it 
would other consumers with similar circumstances.
In this case, Tesco has explained to Mr A that while his car is similar to his old car, it has a 
larger engine and is a newer model. And as such Tesco gives the car a different risk rating, 
which is higher than the car hed previously insured with it. Tescos also told Mr A that its the 
car itself, rather than Mr As ability to drive it, that changes the risk. That means that whether 
or not Mr A has experience of driving similar or more powerful vehicles won't change the risk 
that Tesco considers the new car presents. Further, Tesco said it considers cars which 
policyholders have owned for some time, and are therefore familiar with, pose less of a risk 
than brand new cars. And as such it said Mr As old car, which hed owned for some time 
posed less of a risk than his new car, which hed recently acquired, and Tesco reflected that 
change of risk in its premium calculation.
I understand Mr A doesn't agree with Tescos risk assessment. He thinks it means Tesco 
considers him to be an unsafe driver. But I don't agree thats the case. As I've said above, 
Tesco will consider the risk a driver poses because of many factors, which include the model 
of car and the length of time theyve owned it. And if Tescos considers that increases the 
risk, its entitled to charge a higher premium to cover that perceived increase in risk. But that 
doesn't mean it thinks Mr A is an unsafe driver. It simply means it thinks hes more likely to 
make a claim now than when he insured his old car. So I don't think Tesco has done 
anything wrong in charging Mr A a higher premium for his new car, even if Mr A doesnt 
agree with that assessment. 
Tescos given us some information to show how the change in risk has altered how its 
calculated his premium. That information is commercially sensitive so I cant share it with 
him. But having looked carefully at it, I think its treated Mr A in the same way it would other 
customers in similar circumstances. So I think its calculated Mr As premium reasonably.
Mr A also suggested that Tesco unfairly forced him to increase the voluntary excess on his 
policy. But I'm satisfied thats not the case. It was Mr A who asked to increase the excess in 
order to reduce his premium. That was entirely his choice and Tesco didn't in anyway force 
Mr A to make that choice.
For completeness Ive seen that, after our investigator issued her assessment of the 
complaint, Mr A said Tesco had previously told him that adding a new car to the policy 
wouldn't change the premium. But it charged him an additional premium anyway. I note this 
isn't a point hed put to Tesco previously. So it hasn't had the chance to address it. But I 
haven't seen any evidence, beyond Mr As comments, Tesco told him that changing the car 
on the policy wouldn't change the premium. But even if Tesco had given Mr A that incorrect 
advice, that doesn't mean it wouldn't be fair for it to charge an additional premium to cover 
his new car. 
Thats because Mr A had little choice but to change the car on the policy. And any new car 
would have been a change in risk and so a change in premium. And if Mr A wasn't happy 
with that new premium he could have cancelled his policy. But if he didn't want to do that 
then he needed to pay the increased premium in order to cover the increased risk, 
regardless of whether or not Tesco had previously misadvised him. It follows that I don't 
think Tesco charged him an additional premium unfairly.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman