DRN-3818635
The complaint
Mr H is complaining on behalf of his business that he didnt receive the full amount of cash 
he withdrew from his account with Lloyds Bank PLC. Hed like the shortfall refunded.
What happened
Mr H is complaining on behalf of a business which Ill call C. Mr H says on 26 November 
2021 he made a cash withdrawal of £4,000 in branch but when he late checked the funds, 
he realised £1,240 was missing. On 10 December 2021 Mr H made another cash withdrawal 
in branch for £3,500 but later realised £1,040 was missing.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd checked their teller cash recycling 
(TCR) machine that counts the money and that there was no discrepancy. They also said 
they checked the tills Mr H wouldve used, and there was no discrepancy there either. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She looked at the TCR reports and the till 
balance receipts for both dates and confirmed these all balanced. 
Mr H disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr H feels upset by this situation and would like the shortfall to be 
refunded as C is out of pocket, but I dont think Lloyds need to do anything here.
 
I say this because Lloyds records demonstrate there wasnt a discrepancy as Mr H has 
described in the cash Lloyds retained in branch. Lloyds has also provided evidence of a 
search that was conducted as part of their regular checks after both transactions and this 
also showed that there was no discrepancy at branch as Mr H has described. If there had 
been a surplus of cash, I would expect the records to reflect this. But the available technical 
evidence suggests that Mr H was given the correct amounts.
Although this evidence is enough to satisfy me that Lloyds did provide Mr H with the right 
amount of cash, Ive also considered Mr Hs side of the story in deciding his complaint. 
Whilst Im not doubting what Mr H has told us and I can empathise with his situation, Im 
mindful that Mr H had the cash for a period of time before noticing the shortfall. So its 
possible something may have happened to the cash after Lloyds had given this to Mr H in 
branch.
In addition to this Mr H has told us the reason for the cash withdrawal was to pay wages and 
make cash purchases for his business. He also said that he had to draw more money out of 
his account to cover this loss. 
Having looked at his account statements, I can see some cash withdrawals took place 
shortly after 26 November and 10 December but these seem to be in keeping with the 
pattern of the account activity. Taking this pattern into account, it doesnt seem additional 
cash withdrawals on top of this took place to make up the shortfalls on each occasion. So I 
would have expected to see additional transactions on the account as Mr H needed the cash 
for his business.   
For these reasons I feel its more likely than not that Lloyds gave Mr H the correct amount of 
money in branch, and it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Lloyds to make up any shortfalls 
discovered later. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman