DRN-4472617
The complaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc did not give him access to the funds in his account and 
they blocked his internet banking.
What happened
Mr P says he tried to make a transfer to a third party of £4,600 on 19 May 2023, but TSB 
blocked his account. He says he contacted TSB to unblock his account as he no longer 
wished to process the transfer, but they wouldnt unblock the account as he was not able to 
provide paper evidence of why he was transferring the funds. Mr P say the account was 
finally unblocked on 7 June 2023, but he had been without his funds until they removed the 
block. Mr P made a complaint to TSB.
TSB did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. They said they acted in line with their processes when 
they requested further information to be provided following a security check. TSB said that 
until checks have been completed and the information requested has been received and 
reviewed in line with their internal criteria, they would not remove the block. They said as Mr 
P no longer wished to make the payment, they would recommend he speaks with their fraud 
team again to advise this, to see if they will still require the information. Mr P brought his 
complaint to our service. 
Our investigator partially upheld Mr Ps complaint. He said that Mr P told TSB he no longer 
wished to make the payment on 20 May 2023, so at this point the blocks should have been 
removed. As this did not happen, together with the inconvenience for their failure to remove 
the blocks and repeated calls, he recommended TSB pay Mr P 8% interest on his account 
balance from 20 May 2023 to 7 Jun 2023 when the blocks were removed as he did not have 
access to his account, and for them to pay him £100 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. After TSB responded to our investigator to show there were no blocks on Mr 
Ps account itself (apart from online banking), our investigator revised his position and said 
that TSB should pay Mr P £100 without interest being added. 
Mr P did not agree with the revised outcome, and he asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. He made a number of points. In summary he said he did not have access to any 
of his accounts through internet banking, which is always the method he used, and he had 
done so for a long time. He said he did not live near a branch, and it would have been 
difficult for him to get to one given the distance the nearest branch was to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr P that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their security procedures. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct 
Authority, who have the power to instruct TSB to make changes to their policies and 
procedures, if necessary. Our service acts as an informal dispute resolution service for 
complaints about financial businesses. We look at the circumstances of individual complaints 
and, on a case by case basis, taking into account relevant industry guidance for example, 
make findings about whether a financial business has failed their customer.
Banks and building societies have an obligation to try and keep their customers accounts 
safe and prevent fraudulent transactions. Sometimes they identify and block legitimate 
payments that a customer wants to take place. They can also ask customers to provide 
additional information about the transaction or to ask a customer to attend a branch with 
identification if they remain concerned. This can cause distress and inconvenience to a 
customer  but it doesnt necessarily mean they have acted incorrectly. 
Ive looked at whether TSB have acted in line with their terms and conditions here. Im 
satisfied that they have, and Ill explain why. Their terms and conditions, shows that they can 
stop payments being made from a customers account if they reasonably believe its 
appropriate to protect a customers account. 
Ive listened to the call Mr P has with TSB on 20 May 2023. He tells the call handler his 
account is locked. The call handler confirms he was asked to send them some information. 
But Mr P tells her he wants to cancel the payment, and he confirms he has made the 
payment with another bank. So it would have been proportionate here for the call handler to 
have at least rang through to the relevant department to see what they could do. 
Mr P talks about withdrawing all of his money from TSB and asks their procedure. The call 
handler says he would be able to visit the branch to do so but Mr P says he isnt going to the 
branch (he had previously told the call handler about the 60 mile round trip to the branch). 
Ive also listened to the call Mr P had on 7 June 2023. He didnt email TSB any information 
about the transaction, but the block was removed on the call when Mr P answered further 
questions. So Im not persuaded that the block on his internet banking couldnt have been 
removed on 20 May 2023 if the call handler had asked Mr P the same questions as the call 
handler on 7 June 2023 (or transferred him to someone who could ask him the same 
questions if she was unable to), especially as Mr P had sent them no emails with the 
information they asked him to provide. So Im persuaded that TSB did cause Mr P 
inconvenience by him having to ring back on further occasions, and distress for him not 
being able to access his online banking for nearly three weeks.
So Ive considered what would be a fair outcome for this complaint. In order to ask TSB to 
pay interest as part of an award, Id need to be satisfied that they had deprived Mr P access 
to his funds unfairly. But I cant reasonably say they deprived him access to his funds and Ill 
explain why.
A block on Mr Ps internet banking is not the same as a block on the funds debiting his 
account. And Im satisfied that there was no block on the funds debiting his account during 
the time that he was without internet banking. I say this as I can see that a standing order left 
his account on 5 June 2023, two days before the internet banking block was removed. So Mr 
P had access to his funds  just not via his preferred method. My understanding is there 
were no blocks on his debit card. So Mr P would have been able to make purchases via his 
card, and TSB have confirmed this. They also told him he could access all of his funds in the 
branch on the call on 20 May 2023. While Mr P was not prepared to do this, I cant fairly say 
he was deprived access to his funds. And therefore it isnt proportionate to add interest to 
any compensation I award him.
But Im satisfied that TSB should pay Mr P compensation for the impact of TSB not removing 
the block when he rang on 20 May 2023. Only because he didnt do anything different (apart 
from answering some further questions) on the phone calls on 20 May 2023 and 7 June 2023. So this led him to call back TSB on more than one occasion, which could have been 
avoided if the call handlers took the same actions as the call handler on 7 June 2023. 
Im persuaded that £100 compensation is proportionate for what happened here. Our awards 
are not designed to punish a business. Im not persuaded TSB were unfair to originally block 
his internet banking (to ensure no money went to fraudsters, or as part of a scam), or to ask 
him to provide further information originally, as this is their process. But as the call handler 
on 20 May 2023 should have taken the same course of action (or transferred Mr P to 
someone who could take the same course of action if she was unable to), then TSB could 
have avoided the subsequent distress and inconvenience caused to Mr P. So it follows Ill be 
asking TSB to put things right for Mr P.
Putting things right
Our investigator suggested that TSB pay Mr P £100 for distress and inconvenience, which I 
think is reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. TSB Bank plc should pay Mr P £100 for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman