DRN-4445026
The complaint
Mr D complains about several issues with DeGiro B.Vs now flatexDEGIRO Bank AG 
(DeGiro) handling and administration of his trading account with them. 
What happened
Mr D has a trading account with DeGiro and since April 2022, he has raised several 
complaint issues with them. These include:
dividends being paid in USD and then incorrectly being converted to GBP. Mr D says 
this has resulted in charges being incurred, 
a missing payment. Mr D says he received a payment to his account following a 
divestment but that it disappeared and was never paid to him, 
a missing dividend payment,
further incorrect and missing transactions on the account.
Mr D has raised further subsequent complaint points which are being dealt with separate to 
this complaint reference. 
DeGiro have responded to Mr D and our service on separate occasions. They maintain that 
there are no missing transactions, dividends or other payments on Mr Ds account. They 
have also stated there was no incorrect conversion of dividends from USD to GBP. 
Mr D has remained unhappy with the responses from DeGiro and brought his complaint to 
our service for an independent review. An investigator looked into and has raised several 
requests for information from DeGiro over the months the case has been with our Service. 
Ultimately, she concluded that Mr D hadnt evidenced that DeGiro had done anything wrong 
with the management of his account. 
Mr D has asked for an ombudsman to review the case and issue a decision and so it has 
been passed to me. He maintains that there are incorrect and missing transactions on his 
trading account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many points have been made in relation to this complaint  Ive tried to set out the key 
issues I think are important here. And Ive answered them below in turn.
Dividends being paid in USD and then being converted to GBP 
Mr D is concerned that certain dividends paid to his account, were converted from USD to 
GBP. He says that the dividends should have remained as USD and added to his USD 
money fund and had they been, he wouldnt have suffered an interest charge for a deficit in 
that holding. 
I am satisfied with the response received from DeGiro that they have acted correctly. They 
have stated that the dividends have not been converted to GBP and provided statements 
which show them paid in USD. Further, they have explained that the currency handling 
settings of Mr Ds account allow for cash to be held in different currencies other than GBP. I 
havent seen evidence of a conversion and DeGiro have evidenced that the deficit in the 
USD money fund for Mr D was due to short positions held on several stocks between April 
and June 2022. 
A missing payment regarding Mr Ds Sanofi shareholding 
Mr D says that as a shareholder of Sanofi, he was entitled to approximately 50-60 euros, 
following a demerger with EURO API. Mr D has said in an email to us that this amount did 
show on the account for a period of time before the sum in question disappeared. 
DeGiro have said that Sanofi paid a dividend on June 1st 2023, with record date 31 May 
2023 as explained in the investor relationships webpage of the company. The dividend 
entailed a payment of EUR 3.56 per each share held. As Mr D is holding the American 
Depositary Receipts (ADR) of the company, he was entitled to EUR 1.70 per ADR2. Taking 
into consideration that he was holding 30 ADRs, he was entitled to EUR 51 per share.
The above-mentioned dividend was booked into Mr Ds account on June 1st 2023.
DeGiro have provided an extract of Mr Ds statement to show this amount was paid and I 
havent been provided with anything to show a correction of this amount. On a balance of 
probabilities, I am satisfied this is the amount Mr D is referring to and I havent been 
provided with anything to show entitlement to a further amount. It would be for Mr D to show 
that, if he thinks there is a missing payment. 
A missing dividend payment regarding Mr Ds Nestle shareholding 
In his most recent email to us Mr D said that a Nestle dividend was never paid. Again the 
money showed on the account when the share became ex dividend but then later 
disappeared without being paid.
DeGiro have evidenced that Mr D received a dividend from his Nestle shareholding on 26 
May 2022 for $74.18. They have also said that following this a dividend tax of $25.96 was 
paid and that there was a negative balance left after this. 
I am satisfied on a balance of probabilities that this is the dividend that Mr D is referring to 
and that DeGiro have acted fairly. He has not evidenced any other dividend payment and 
nor has he shown any correction or account showing the amount not included. 
Further unrecognised transactions on the account
Mr D has also provided us with screenshots of distributions to his account which he has 
described as unexplained. 
I am satisfied with the response DeGiro have given regarding them. They have said that    
Mr D makes use of money market funds within his account and they have a yield which tracks the Central Banks policy in interest rates of the corresponding currency. Therefore, 
the transactions attached reflect that positive/negative interest yielded by the clients funds 
deposited in the above-mentioned Money Market Funds. 
I am satisfied with the response given by DeGiro that they have acted sufficiently and fairly 
to explain the transactions that Mr D has queried. 
In summary, I am satisfied based on the information provided to me that DeGiro have acted 
fairly and correctly. In my opinion, their responses explain the issues raised and Mr D hasnt 
evidenced any errors or missing payments. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman