DRN-3105495
The complaint
Mr D complains about the charges Barclays Bank Plc applied to an international transfer he 
made from his current account. In particular, he wasnt given sufficient time to check and 
accept the fee being charged by the bank resulting in him accepting a rate he felt was too 
high. Mr D is also unhappy Barclays have told him he needs to close his account
What happened
Mr D was transferring £30,000 from his UK current account with Barclays to his European 
account. Mr D says after entering all the details online he was given two minutes to accept 
the transaction. 
Mr D says there was not enough time to check the exchange rate or fees to make the 
exchange; and in any event the information was not easy to find when he was looking for it. 
Mr D says he clicked the proceed button at which point the information regarding the rate 
and the fees was provided, but at that point the transaction had been submitted. 
Mr D says he immediately contacted Barclays in order to recall the payment as he was not 
happy with the level of fees he was charged and he was unable to clearly see the margin at 
the time of transferring the money. Barclays didnt recall this transaction. 
Mr D complained to Barclays since he felt it is aware of the rate before confirmation of the 
transaction but doesnt make it clear to the customer. 
Barclays looked into Mr Ds complaint. It said when Mr D made contact to recall the 
transaction it should have explained to Mr D if the transaction was recalled then he would be 
charged to exchange the money back into sterling from euro and therefore would have cost 
him more. Barclays also paid Mr D £50 to reflect the fact he had not been properly advised. 
Mr D was not happy with the response he received from Barclays. He says he tried to make 
the payment in sterling a few days earlier but the transaction was cancelled with no 
explanation and so Mr D had to call Barclays in order to make the payment to his European 
account.
Mr D was then advised his account was being closed due to Brexit and would need to 
arrange to transfer his money to a different account. Mr D didnt understand why this would 
be the case. 
Mr D referred his complaint to this service. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
He felt Mr D was provided with sufficient information that a margin will be added to the 
exchange rate. The investigator did agree Barclays failed to advise Mr D his transaction was 
not recalled and felt £50 was a fair amount to reflect the circumstances. 
Mr D asked for an Ombudsman to look into his complaint and so the matter has been 
passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr D experienced here. I can see how strongly he 
feels about the issues raised in this complaint. My role is to assess whether I think Barclays 
made a mistake, or treated Mr D unfairly, in the way it dealt with his international payments 
and in applying the charges it did. 
I consider there to be three elements of the complaint and I think it will make things clearer if 
I deal with each separately. 
Fees for money transfer 
Mr D is unhappy with the fees which have been applied to the international transfer he 
made. He says Barclays website is unclear as to this charge. And he told our service he 
only became aware of what the charge would be after he had clicked proceed on the 
transaction.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mr D said here. And Ive considered the content of Barclays 
website and its terms and conditions to assess whether it provides sufficient information to 
its customers about what the margin will be insofar as international payments are concerned. 
I also note Mr B has made other international transfers previously using the same account. 
And so I think he would have had a level of understanding as to the charges which apply to 
the transfer, even though he would not have been aware of the actual amounts. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ds account say if payments are made in a different currency 
from the currency of the account, which is the case here, then Barclays will convert it based 
on the Barclays reference exchange rate to which we add a margin to create the exchange 
rate that will apply to your transaction. The margin is based on the payment amount.  The 
terms and conditions go on to say there may be an additional charge for making the 
payment, which youll find in the Tariff. Well confirm the charge at the time you ask us to 
make the payment. The information regarding the fees which would be applied is within the 
terms and conditions, including the application of a margin. and Mr D was aware a margin 
would be applied.
Next I looked at what Mr D would have seen and been told at the time of the transaction. 
Barclays has provided our service with screenshots of the information Mr D would have seen 
on the website prior to making his transfers. 
On the first page there is a section where the customer chooses an account the payment will 
be paid from and the payment amount. This also shows what the recipient will receive. 
Beneath this is a box which says, this is based on a current indicative rate which is XX we 
will update this before you complete your payment. Next to this is a question mark icon in a 
bubble. Barclays say if you hover over the question mark it will display the breakdown of the 
reference rate and the margin. 
When the customer clicks continue the next page displays a breakdown of the guaranteed 
exchange rate and shows what amount is being sent and what will be received. This rate is 
refreshed every 90 seconds since it reflects currency market movements.  At this point the 
customer can either proceed with the transaction on the basis of the information provided on 
screen or can choose not to proceed.  Mr B chose to proceed with the transaction. 
This all persuades me that Barclays provided enough information regarding a margin being 
applied to international payments at the point of the transaction. I can see Mr B has made previous similar transfers from this account and so on balance its likely he would have been 
aware that a fee would be charged. And so I am not upholding this part of the complaint. 
Recalling the transfer
Mr D contacted Barclays to cancel the transaction as soon as it had completed. Barclays 
agreed to recall the transaction but failed to explain that if the transaction was recalled then 
Mr D would be charged once for making the payment from sterling to Euro and again to 
convert it back on recalling the transaction. It then transpired the transaction was not 
recalled as requested. This is not the level of service I would have expected from Barclays 
and in recognition of this it has paid Mr D £50. I think that this is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Account closure 
Mr D says that he was told his account would need to close due to Brexit As explained by 
the investigator, the UK left the European Union on 31 January 2020. Under the terms of the 
Withdrawal Agreement an implementation period was put in place until 31 December 2020. 
Under those arrangements some banks were permitted to provide services to the European 
Economic Area (EEA) under the passporting scheme. Barclays decided that it would cease 
providing services to certain EEA countries, including the one Mr D was sending money to. 
As a result, Barclays say it has closed affected accounts. Under the terms and conditions of 
Mr Ds account it can close accounts where the account holder is no longer eligible to hold it. 
Barclays say they try to tell you in advance if we need to do this but we may not always be 
able to. I am satisfied that Barclays have not acted unfairly or unreasonably in closing Mr 
Ds account and so I am not upholding this part of the complaint. 
Compensation offered 
Im satisfied compensation is due for Barclays failure to advise Mr D of the charges which 
would apply to recall the transaction. I find the sum of £50 is fair and reasonable to reflect 
this. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank PLC has already paid Mr D £50. I do not require them to take any further 
steps to resolve this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman