DRN-1606431
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Protection Specialist Limited, trading as The Fair Trade Practice 
(FTP), didnt represent him as hed expect when they pursued his complaint for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr M instructed FTP to pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI with lender C in September 2017. As 
Lender C were no longer trading, in October 2017 FTP submitted the claim to lender B, who 
they believed had taken responsibility for the loan. FTP didnt receive a response. 
In April 2018, FTP submitted a new claim about the same loan to Lender H, who fell under 
the same umbrella organisation as Lender B. Lender H wrote to FTP requesting a new Letter 
of Authority (LOA) on a number of occasions which FTP provided. Mr M spoke to FTP in July 
2018 where he explained he was unhappy with how long the claim was taking. At this point, 
he made FTP aware that hed received an acknowledgement to the initial claim submitted to 
Lender B so didnt understand why FTP were now pursuing Lender H. He sent this to FTP to 
consider.
FTP continued to chase Lender H for a response to the claim they submitted in April. During 
this time, Mr M contacted FTP for updates and continuing to make them aware he was 
unhappy with how long it was taking to receive an outcome. In February 2019, Lender H 
responded advising FTP to contact Lender B and FTP did so in May 2019. At this point, it 
had been almost two years since FTPs initial instruction.
In July, Lender B responded explaining theyd issued a previous response rejecting Mr Ms 
claim in December 2017. Because of this, FTP told Mr M they were unable to progress his 
claim any further as he fell outside of the time limits to take the complaint the The Financial 
Ombudsman Service (FOS). Mr M was unhappy with this and felt FTP had failed to 
effectively progress his claim meaning hed loss the opportunity to secure a refund as the 
PPI deadline had since passed.
FTP didnt agree. They thought the delays were caused by the failures of Lenders B and H 
who didnt to make them aware a response had been issued in December 2017. They 
explained that if theyd received this response, theyd have been able to resolve his claim in 
a timelier manner. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything further. Mr M was 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought thered been period 
where FTP hadnt been proactive in chasing Lenders B and H. She also thought they failed 
to make sure the LOAs they sent were correct. So, she thought FTP should pay Mr M £150 
to recognise the impact these failures had caused Mr M. FTP didnt agree so the complaint 
was passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 February 2019, where I explained my intention not to 
uphold the complaint. In that decision I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
the complaint and Ill explain why.
During the time the complaint has been with this service, Mr M has confirmed that Lender B 
agreed to re-consider his claim and upheld it. Mr M has also confirmed that FTP has waived 
their settlement fee. So, Ive considered this when making my decision.
First, I want to recognise that Mr Ms claim has taken a lot longer than I would expect to be 
processed. I dont doubt that the length of time it took wouldve been frustrating for Mr M, 
which is displayed by the number of times he asked FTP for updates and the complaints he 
raised through the process. But Ive considered the reasons for these delays and whether 
they were caused by the failures of FTP. And for the most part, I think the delays were 
caused by circumstances outside of FTPs control.
An important aspect of the complaint revolves around the first claim FTP submitted and 
Lender Bs response, which neither Mr M or FTP received. Mr M has confirmed that in a call 
with Lender B they said the response they issued in December 2017 resulted from the claim 
FTP submitted. As neither Mr M or FTP received this response, I think its reasonable to 
assume that Lender B either didnt send the response, or that there was an issue when the 
response was sent. This was a failure outside of FTPs control. Had FTP or Mr M received 
that response, I think its likely FTP wouldve escalated the claim to FOS and that a 
successful outcome wouldve been received sooner. So, I dont think it would be fair for me 
to decide that FTP was responsible entirely for the length of time the claim took.
Ive also seen that Mr M received an acknowledgement to the original claim FTP submitted 
to Lender B. But FTP wasnt made aware of this until July 2018, when Mr M supplied them 
with a copy. So, in April 2018, after FTP had only received a response saying Lender B were 
unable to verify Mr Ms claim, they decided to submit a new claim to Lender H. Lender H 
were also responsible for loans issued by Lender C. Although I think FTP couldve taken this 
action sooner, I think their decision to submit a new claim to be a reasonable attempt to 
progress Mr Ms claim.
Although I can understand why Mr M would assume FTP had also received this 
acknowledgement from Lender B, I dont think they had. Had Mr M provided this sooner, I 
think its likely that FTP would have queried this with Lender B and received a copy of their 
final response before the six-month time scale to refer to FOS had elapsed. Unfortunately, 
by July 2018, this time limit had already run out.
FTP continued to chase Lender H for a response between July 2018 and February 2019. In 
February 2019, Lender H referred FTP back to Lender B. A final response was obtained 
from Lender B on 22 July, which included a copy of the original decision issued in 2017.
I can understand why Mr M thinks this delay is due to FTP not pro-actively chasing an 
update on his claim. But I dont agree FTP can be held entirely responsible for the delays 
over this period. Ive seen the LOAs that FTP sent to Lender H, all of which I think were 
valid. Lender H havent confirmed why they werent acceptable as they were all in date at the 
time of them being sent. Had Lender H responded in a reasonable time frame, they wouldve 
referred FTP back to Lender B sooner.
But I do think, after FTP received the acknowledgement Mr M sent them from Lender B, they 
couldve contacted Lender B at that point. This may have resulted in the decision sent in July 2019 being sent earlier. So, I think they are partially responsible for the length of time the 
claim took.
I also think FTP couldve challenged Lender B to re-consider the claim, even though the six-
month time frame to refer to FOS had elapsed. Mr M has done this himself and secured a 
refund as a result. So again, although I understand why FTP decided to close the claim, I 
think the service they provided contributed to the length of time the claim took to be 
successful.
So, as I think FTPs actions led to some of the delays Mr M experienced, Ive then 
considered what impact this had on Mr M and what FTP should do to recognise this. As 
previously explained, Mr M hasnt had a loss of opportunity as his claim was reconsidered 
and a refund provided by Lender B.
But I do think Mr M has been left frustrated by the length of time the claim has taken. I also 
recognise the time and effort Mr M has used to ensure his claim was reconsidered. But FTP 
has waived their settlement fee, so Mr M has been able to keep the entire PPI refund he 
received.
Had Mr Ms claim progressed as I wouldve expected, Lender Bs initial decision wouldve 
been escalated to FOS. I think it would have if Lender B had sent the letters correctly. In this 
situation, Mr M wouldve received his PPI refund and been expected to pay FTPs settlement 
fee of 25% + VAT of the total amount. So, I think by FTP waiving their settlement fee, Mr M 
has been left in a better financial situation than he wouldve been. 
So, I think this reasonably compensates Mr M for the delays hes experienced during his 
claim and I dont think FTP need to take any further action.
Responses
FTP accepted the provisional decision and didnt provided any further comments. Mr M 
initially accepted the provisional decision, before explaining that he remained disappointed. 
He didnt feel the effort he had to place to keep the claim on track and to get to the final 
outcome had been recognised.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
Mr M has stated he doesnt feel the effort he undertook has been considered. But my 
provisional decision did recognise the time and effort Mr M put in which led to the overturn 
and the successful claim. As I explained, I do understand the frustration this wouldve 
caused. I recognise that without this effort, Mr Ms claim most likely wouldnt have been 
successful. But Ive also considered that it was Lender B who made an error by failing to 
uphold the claim in December 2017, which they now admit was incorrect. Had they 
responded correctly in 2017, the claim wouldve been upheld, and Mr M wouldve had to pay 
FTPs settlement fee.
Even though the claim has now been successful, FTP has decided to waive their settlement 
fee in recognition of Mr Ms complaint, meaning Mr M is able to keep the entire PPI refund 
he received. As the successful claim arose from the original submission FTP made, I think 
they would be entitled to invoice Mr M for their fee as per the terms and conditions of the 
original agreement. So, by waiving this fee, Mr M has been left in a better financial position. And I think this fairly compensates Mr M for the delays he experienced during the claim that 
FTP couldve prevented and their decision not to challenge decision issued in December 
2017. Because of this, I dont think FTP need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about The Protection 
Specialist Limited.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman