DRN-3617575
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs E complain that Usay Business Limited mis-sold them a personal private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs E were insured under a group private medical insurance policy by an 
underwriter Ill call A. In September 2020, they got in touch with Usay to look into taking out 
a new policy. Mr B told Usay that Mrs E had a medical condition, which meant that shed 
needed a caesarean section for her last pregnancy. A had covered the cost of this surgery. 
Mr B and Mrs E wanted to ensure theyd be covered if Mrs E needed a further caesarean 
section.
Usay spoke with an insurer Ill call P to discuss whether it would be prepared to switch Mr B 
and Mrs Es existing cover to a new policy and provide cover for a future caesarean section. 
P explained that it could carry out the switch and that it could look to offer cover for future 
claims, depending on the circumstances and evidence. Usay passed on this information to 
Mr B and Mrs E.
On this basis, Mr B and Mrs E took out the policy and switched to a policy underwritten by P. 
However, they later made a claim for caesarean section surgery which P turned down. So 
Mr B and Mrs E were concerned that theyd been given misleading advice by Usay at the 
time of sale. They complained that the policy had been mis-sold to them.
Our investigator didnt think Mr B and Mrs Es complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Usay had checked with P what cover it could provide. And she didnt think Usay had 
provided Mr B and Mrs E with misleading or incorrect advice. 
Mr B and Mrs E disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide. I must make 
it clear that this decision will only consider how Usay sold the policy to Mr B and Mrs E. Ive 
considered a complaint about Ps decision to decline the claim separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B and Mrs E, Ive decided not to uphold 
their complaint and Ill explain why.
Its common ground that Usay advised Mr B and Mrs E to take out the policy. This means it 
needed to check it was suitable for them. And it needed to provide them with enough clear, 
fair and not misleading information about the policy to allow them to make an informed 
decision about whether the policy was right for them.
I appreciate that it was very important to Mr B and Mrs E to take out a policy which would 
provide cover in the event that Mrs E needed a caesarean section. Its clear from the 
evidence Usay has provided that not only did it know about this particular need, it also took 
active steps to try and ensure that Mr B and Mrs E had the cover they wanted. Usay spoke 
to P on more than one occasion to check whether Mrs E would be covered for any further 
caesarean sections. It was informed that the switch from A could take place and broadly that 
cover could be offered, dependent on the available medical evidence at the time of the 
claim. In my view, Usay took appropriate and reasonable steps to ensure the policy it 
recommended would meet Mr B and Mrs Es needs, as far as possible.
Like the investigator, Ive listened to the relevant calls not just between Usay and P, but also 
between Mr B and Usays adviser. Im satisfied that Usay accurately relayed the information 
itd been given by P to Mr B. Im also satisfied that Usays adviser made it clear that he 
couldnt guarantee any claim would be paid. In summary, he stressed that he couldnt 
definitely confirm that a claim would be successful, and it would be down to P to assess the 
available medical evidence at the time. So I dont think I could fairly find that Usay had 
provided Mr B and Mrs E with inaccurate or misleading information. And in my experience, 
no insurer or broker could reasonably confirm a claim would definitely be paid ahead of an 
event occurring and without the availability of evidence to assess whether or not the 
circumstances would be covered.
Id add too that P didnt exclude cover for all claims related to Mrs Es existing condition and 
it wouldve covered caesarean section surgery in certain situations. But this, as Usay 
explained, was dependent on the evidence and Ps assessment. And the cover set out in the 
new policy broadly mirrored the cover for pregnancy and childbirth which Mr B and Mrs E 
had held with A. So in my view, the policy Usay recommended appears to have been 
suitable for Mr B and Mrs Es needs. I also havent seen any persuasive evidence that Usay 
could have arranged a policy with another insurer which wouldve definitely covered Mr B 
and Mrs Es situation in any event. 
Overall, I find that Usay took reasonable steps to ensure that Mr B and Mrs E had the level 
of cover they wanted. I think the policy was broadly suitable for their identified needs and I 
dont think that Usay gave them unclear, unfair or misleading information about the terms of 
the contract. So it follows that I dont think Usay mis-sold this policy to Mr B and Mrs E.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman