DRN-1888478
 
Complaint
Mr W says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI0) policy when he took out 
a credit card in May 2003 with Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays).
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and said they thought the PPI had been 
mis-sold. Having looked Mr Ws circumstances at the time they thought he didnt need the 
policy.
Barclays disagreed that the PPI had been mis-sold to Mr W. But it had already agreed to 
pay him back some money for the commission it received from the sale.
In my provisional decision dated 29 April 2020 I explained why I wasnt intending to the 
uphold this complaint. 
I set out an extract below:
Ive kept in mind that these events happened around 17 years ago, so its very unlikely 
thatany more information will be forthcoming at this stage. And I can also appreciate that 
Mr Ws recollection of his circumstances arent as strong as they could be.
It seems to me that the policy was probably suitable for Mr W. He was employed, eligible for 
the cover and the PPI wouldve paid off up to 10% of the outstanding balance on his credit 
card each month, if hed made a successful claim.
Mr W told us a few things about his employment at the time. And whilst Mr W cant 
remember exact details of the benefits he was entitled to from his employer if he couldnt 
work, I fully accept he likely would have been entitled to some level of sick pay. Mr W 
thought he would have most likely received at least 6 months benefit, but less than 12.Given 
what I know about his employment at the time I would estimate this to be closer to the 6 
month level.
Mr W also told us he had savings or insurance equivalent to at least 6 months pay but less 
than 12 months pay. Again, without better details or evidence of these savings, Im not 
persuaded that he would have had access to something approaching 12 months worth of 
pay. If there was a possibility of my making an uphold finding based on level of savings I 
would definitely need to see some evidence of Mr W having this level of readily accessible 
savings at the time. But I note he hasnt been able to provide us with further details of 
savings to date, despite our request.
On the basis that the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months if he made a successful 
claim, my view is that it was useful for Mr S. Ive seen that the policy cost 79p for each £100 
Mr W owed on the card. If he made a successful claim, Mr W would have had 10% of the 
outstanding balance on the card paid for up to 12 months. I think thats a worthwhile benefit at a reasonable cost. And I havent seen anything to make me think that Mr W couldnt afford 
the monthly policy premiums.
All of this means that, given that Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr W at the meeting, it 
doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him, taking into account what we know of his 
circumstances at the time. And given that weve tried to get information from Mr W about his 
circumstances at the time in terms of pay, savings and other insurance, I dont consider that 
I am currently in a position to uphold this complaint.
I also think Barclays made Mr W aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it 
out. Although Mr W cant recall how he took out the PPI, Barclays has given us evidence to 
show he bought it when he applied for the card at a meeting in a branch. Ive seen on the 
credit card application form that PPI had been selected with a tick and that Mr W had signed 
over this section, as well as signing the form at the end. If Mr W hadnt wanted PPI I doubt 
that he would have ticked it  or allowed it to be ticked for him  and then signed to confirm 
that he wanted the PPI. So I think the PPI was added at his request.
Barclays also had a duty to provide clear information. After so long I simply dont know if it 
told Mr W everything he should have been told. I can certainly see ways in which the sale 
process could have been clearer. But I think the credit agreement which he signed would 
have been most likely accompanied by information about the PPI.
Barclays confirmed it had received my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. 
We also checked with Mr W that hed received a copy, which he had. He told us he also had 
nothing further to add.
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Given that theres no new evidence or information for me to consider, I see no reason to add 
anything to my provisional findings. 
It follows that I wont be upholding Mr Ws complaint as I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
I am sorry to have to disappoint Mr W on this occasion. 
My final decision 
I am not upholding this complaint, which means that Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt need to 
do anything more, having already paid back to Mr W the commission and profit share it owes 
him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman