DRN-3799059
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK PLC unfairly restricted and closed his bank account, and 
that it used some of the funds held within that account to repay a debt owed by a limited 
company of which he is the director.
What happened
Mr M is the owner and director of a company, which Ill refer to as N. Both Mr M and N 
banked with Santander. Mr M held a basic bank account with a top-up debit card facility. 
N obtained a £50,000 Bounce Back Loan from Santander in May 2020. Between May and 
October, Mr M transferred a total of £28,434.10 of Ns loan funds to his personal account 
with Santander.
In light of concerns as to Ns eligibility for the Bounce Back Loan it had obtained and the way 
the funds were being used, Santander undertook a review of its relationships with both the 
company and Mr M in his personal capacity. The bank restricted Mr Ms access to his 
account while it carried out its review. 
Santander decided that N was ineligible for the loan it had obtained, so it terminated the 
agreement and recalled the funds. Santander removed the credit balance held in Mr Ms 
personal account, of around £11,100, and subsequently applied this to the amount owed by 
N in respect of the Bounce Back Loan.
The findings of the banks review also led it to end its relationship with Mr M. It wrote to him 
on 2 December 2020 to say that it would be closing his account in 30 days time, and that it 
would remain restricted until then. 
Mr M doesnt think it was fair for Santander to restrict and close his account, or to use the 
funds he held in his own account to repay debts owed by his company. This is in part 
because he doesnt think N did anything wrong in obtaining the Bounce Back Loan because 
he believes the company met the eligibility criteria. But he also argues that Santander 
shouldnt have used his personal funds to repay a business loan owed by his company.
Santander says that it restricted and closed Mr Ms account in line with the applicable terms 
and conditions. The bank says these actions were prompted by its legitimate concerns as to 
Ns eligibility for the loan and its decision to default that agreement, which were driven by 
valid concerns as to the accuracy of the information that Mr M gave in Ns loan application. 
The bank also says that the terms of the loan agreement gave the bank the right of set-off, 
entitling it to reclaim money it was owed from any credit balances held with it in other 
accounts.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ms complaint and recommended that it be upheld in 
part. She didnt think Santander had done anything wrong in restricting, reviewing and 
closing Mr Ms personal account given its concerns around Ns Bounce Back Loan 
application. But she didnt think the banks right of set off entitled it to use funds held in 
Mr Ms personal account to repay a debt owed by N, being a separate legal entity. So she 
recommended that Santander return the amount in question to him, and pay him £350 
compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused. 
Mr M largely accepted our investigators recommendations, other than to request a higher 
amount of compensation that he said should also include an interest award on the balance. 
Santander didnt accept our investigators view. The bank maintains that once it had decided 
to terminate the Bounce Back Loan agreement in view of Ns apparent ineligibility, it was 
entitled to recover the funds from Mr Ms personal accounts. It highlights that the loan was 
not to be used for personal purposes and that the only funds it recovered from Mr Ms 
accounts were those that originated from the loan.
With no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
My initial conclusions differed from those of our investigator, in that I didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld. So I sent a provisional decision to both parties setting out my 
thoughts and inviting them to respond with any further comments or evidence they wanted 
me to take into account before I made a final decision. I said:
Santander was entitled to review its relationship with Mr M, and the terms and conditions 
of his accounts allowed the bank to restrict his use of them while this was completed. I 
think it was reasonable for the bank to do so in the circumstances here, primarily 
because:
Under the separate but related complaint from N about Santanders actions in 
respect of the companys accounts, Ive found that the bank had valid concerns 
as to Ns entitlement to the loan.
A significant portion of Ns Bounce Back Loan funds had been moved to Mr Ms 
personal account. That represented a possible breach of the terms and 
conditions of Ns loan (which required the funds only to be used for Ns business 
purposes). The bank therefore took steps to protect its ability to recover these 
funds, which I think was reasonable.
Following its review, Santander decided to end its relationship with Mr M. That was a 
decision it was entitled to make. The terms and conditions of Mr Ms accounts allowed 
for their immediate closure, and I think it was reasonable for Santander to exercise that 
power in the circumstances here for the reasons Ive explained above (although it opted 
to give Mr M 30 days notice, their continued restriction had much the same effect as an 
immediate closure).
Rather than release the balance held within the account to Mr M, Santander decided to 
remove it and apply the funds to the debt owed by N under the Bounce Back Loan 
agreement. Mr M doesnt think Santander had the right to do this and I can understand 
his point of view  particularly as the debt was owed by a distinct third party, which leads 
me to agree that the bank didnt have the contractual right of set off to use the money in 
this way as it originally suggested. But that isnt the end of the matter. In addition to the 
contractual position, I must also consider what is fair and reasonable in the individual 
circumstances of this complaint. And having done so, my view is that it was fair and 
reasonable for Santander to remove these funds for this purpose in the circumstances 
here because:In reviewing the complaint from N, Ive provisionally concluded that Santander 
reasonably decided that the company hadnt been eligible for the loan it obtained. 
The loan only came into existence as a result of Mr Ms self-declaration as to his 
companys eligibility, which the bank had reasonable grounds to consider 
inaccurate. And the bank had further cause for concern as to Ns trading status 
and activity, given Mr M was unable to provide Ns tax returns and hasnt filed 
any company accounts  or evidence why these requirements havent been 
fulfilled.
The loan was to be used only for business purposes and Ive not seen any 
reasonable grounds for the transfer of £28,400 of the loan funds to Mr Ms 
personal account. While the payment of a salary could well amount to a 
legitimate business expense, this seems difficult to justify in the circumstances 
that apply here  most notably that N doesnt appear to have been carrying out 
much in the way of trading activity or generating any income  and given that Mr 
M wasnt receiving any such payments prior to Ns receipt of the loan.
It would not be fair for Mr M to benefit from these funds given that his company 
was not entitled to them in the first place and when the loan couldnt be used for 
personal purposes. Particularly as Mr M wouldve been  or, at least, ought 
reasonably to have been  aware of both of these issues.
The £11,100 that Santander deducted from Mr Ms account comprised only of 
funds transferred from the Bounce Back Loan, as opposed to payments received 
from other sources or for other purposes.
Therefore, it follows that Im not intending to require Santander to return the funds in 
question to Mr M or take any other action in response to this complaint.
Mr M didnt accept my provisional decision. He replied to say, in summary, that:
He and N had been represented as profiting from the Bounce Back Loan facility even 
though the evidence pointed towards a small business having acted in a reasonable 
and measured manner to maintain its viability in the face of the coronavirus 
pandemic.
My departure from our investigators view was concerning given the relative speed at 
which Id reached my conclusion and the absence of any new evidence from 
Santander.
In relation to the separate but related complaint made by N, he rejected my 
provisional conclusions that the company hadnt been eligible for the Bounce Back 
Loan and that the funds hadnt been used for business purposes. He disputed the 
banks allegations on both these aspects, and believed it had unfairly taken a 
unilateral decision and then failed to follow its own recovery procedures.
Santander wasnt entitled to rely on its right of set off to recover funds from his 
personal account in repayment of money owed by N. And hed not given a personal 
guarantee in support of Ns loan, as outlined in the terms of the agreement.
Santander said it had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive not seen any reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my 
provisional decision. Ill explain why Mr Ms further comments havent changed my mind.
Firstly, I can appreciate Mr Ms disappointment at receiving a different answer from me than 
the one given by our investigator. But under our two-stage process, the complaint is 
reviewed afresh by an ombudsman at the second stage and it is therefore possible in each 
of the complaints we deal with that a different outcome will be reached  whether or not any 
further information or evidence is provided. The reasons for that difference are set out in my 
provisional decision, giving both parties the right to reply. 
While I dont accept that the timeliness of the answer ought necessarily to give rise to 
concerns about its quality or fairness, I would like to reassure Mr M that Ive given careful 
consideration to everything that both parties have submitted over the course of the 
complaint. The differing timescales of the reviews conducted by our investigator and myself 
are largely explained by the fact that once the complaint was referred to me, we had all the 
information and evidence that I deemed necessary  with the investigator having obtained it 
in the course of her review.
Turning to the points Mr M has raised in response to my provisional findings, it is relevant 
that I have made a final decision on the related complaint from N that finds Santander had 
reasonable grounds to terminate the Bounce Back Loan on the basis that the company 
hasnt demonstrated its eligibility or entitlement to the loan or that it used the funds for 
business purposes. So I still think Santander was entitled to recover the funds and Ive not 
found issue with the way it went about doing so.
In terms of Santanders decision to recover some of the funds from Mr Ms personal account, 
Ive taken into account what Mr M has said in response to my provisional decision but this 
didnt include any points or information of which I was previously unaware. I highlighted in 
my provisional decision that I agreed Santander didnt appear to have a contractual right of 
set-off. And I didnt suggest that Mr M had entered into a personal guarantee for the loan 
(which was, in fact, expressly prohibited). Rather, I thought it had been fair and reasonable 
for Santander to apply the funds held in Mr Ms personal account to Ns Bounce Back Loan 
debt given the circumstances  and Mr M hasnt said or provided anything that leads me to 
take a different view.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman