DRN-3725194
The complaint
Mrs D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly defaulted her loan.
What happened
After Mrs D found that shed have difficulty repaying her loan, she contacted HSBC and 
agreed a six-month plan. Mrs D says this was agreed multiple times from around early-2020. 
In November 2021, HSBC sent Mrs D a final demand and later defaulted her account after 
the relevant deadline passed.
Mrs D complained after she found out about the default because she says she didnt receive 
the final demand HSBC says it sent to her. Mrs D was unhappy that HSBC took this step 
even though she had only recently agreed another six-month plan. She says the advisor she 
spoke to told her she could ignore any letters the bank sends about the loan. 
HSBC responded that it had no record of the final demand being returned as undelivered. 
The bank accepted that its advisor couldve been clearer over the phone and paid Mrs D 
£100 compensation because of this. Mrs D remained unhappy and asked this service to step 
in. She wants HSBC to remove the default.  
One of our investigators concluded that HSBC acted fairly. Mrs D didnt agree and says she 
wouldve paid what was due had she received the final demand. Because Mrs D didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that HSBC has acted fairly. I know Mrs D will be disappointed 
to hear this, so Ill explain why.
The guidance from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) is that a default may be 
registered when a consumer is at least three months behind with their repayments. The 
guidance goes onto say that the ICO expects a default to be registered by the time a 
consumer is six months behind with their repayments. I can see from HSBCs records that 
Mrs D had missed her repayments for well over the six-month period that the ICOs 
guidelines point to. So I think the bank acted fairly when it defaulted Mrs Ds account. 
Mrs D says she didnt receive the final demand letter that HSBC says it sent. Mrs D says she 
wouldve paid what she owed had she received this letter. Ive seen a copy of the letter and it 
seems to me that it was addressed correctly and HSBC confirmed it was sent. I havent seen 
anything that persuades me there were any problems around that time with Mrs D receiving 
her post. And Mrs D hasnt indicated that shes previously experienced problems with 
receiving letters from the bank. So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that Mrs D 
received the final demand. 
But even if she didnt, Im of the opinion that she ought to have reasonably been aware that 
her loan would default. I say this because of the letter the bank sent to her in May 2021  
which acknowledges that Mrs D is unlikely to be able to commit to any repayments. The 
letter explains that HSBC will continue with its normal recovery procedures and that Mrs D 
would receive a default notice when the missed payments reach a certain amount. The 
bank goes onto to say that this notice will set out how much Mrs D owes, what action she 
needs to take and give her a deadline. Mrs D continued to miss her repayments, and I think 
she ought to have reasonably been aware after seeing this letter that HSBC would default 
the account at some point. 
Despite what Mrs D says, I havent seen anything that makes me think it was likely that she 
wouldve been able to settle the balance she owed. Mrs D hadnt met her repayments for 
some time and from what she told the bank, her circumstances meant she had no income. 
HSBCs final demand asked Mrs D to pay around £6,800. Given the significance of this sum 
and Mrs Ds circumstances, even if Mrs D agreed that shed received the final demand, I 
dont think its likely that she wouldve been able to pay this sum.
HSBC already accepts it couldve been clearer during the call it had with Mrs D in 
November. The bank has paid her £100 compensation because of this. I wont go into the 
details of the call as I think this level of compensation is fair.
I empathise with Mrs D for the difficulties shes experienced and the impact the default will 
have on her ability to obtain further lending. But Im satisfied that HSBC took appropriate 
steps to help her and only defaulted the account when her missed repayments had reached 
a certain point  and certainly pass the point at which the ICO says a default should be 
registered. So I think the bank acted fairly. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman