DRN-3459541
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the support he received from Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited (VWFS) when he was in financial hardship. 
When I refer to what Mr S and VWFS have said it should also be taken to include things said 
on their behalf.
What happened
In October 2018, Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS to acquire a new 
car. The cash price of the car was around £23,579. The total amount payable was 
approximately £27,203. Mr S made an advance payment of around £1,000. There were 48 
monthly payments each around £328, followed by a final payment of around £10,440. There 
was also a £10 option to purchase fee. 
 
On 23 March 2020, the UK Government announced that UK would enter a lockdown due to 
the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr S, due to the pandemic, found himself stranded abroad so he 
couldnt work, and in May 2020 Mr S applied for a payment deferral. In June 2020, VWFS 
approved a payment deferral for Mr S and sent him documents to read and sign. VWFS said 
that Mr S didnt return this paperwork, so the payment deferral was not put in place.  
In August and September of 2020, Mr S made contact with VWFS again to say that he is still 
abroad and unable to return. During these communications he said that he still has no 
income and is unbale to make payments towards his finance agreement, so from November 
2020 to May 2021 VWFS suspended the account. Overall, since April 2020 Mr S made no 
payments towards his finance agreement, meaning 13 payments were in arrears up to May 
2021. For six of the 13 months VWFS decided to allow an informal payment deferral, and the 
other seven months worth of payments totalling approximately £2,297 they decided to write-
off. At this time, they unsuspended the account and in June 2021 tried to collect a direct 
debit payment which was rejected. And as the next few monthly payments were all rejected, 
in October 2021, VWFS terminated Mr Ss finance agreement. At that time the arrears on the 
account were approximately £2,954. 
Mr S was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint with VWFS. Later in October 2021 
VWFS responded to his complaint. In this correspondence they said that in August 2021, 
they sent him a default notice explaining that if he didnt pay his arrears, his finance 
agreement was at risk of being terminated. They said Mr S did call them on 17 September 
2021, at which point they agreed to provide him with breathing space until the end of 
September 2021, but, as there was no contact from him by the end of September 2021, they 
terminated his agreement in October 2021. 
Mr S was unhappy with VWFSs response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He 
wanted them to reinstate the finance agreement or, as he said later, he would also be ok 
with having the car repossessed, provided his credit file is unaffected.  
Our investigator didnt think that VWFS have acted unfairly regarding his finance agreement. 
He said they have a duty to report accurate information to credit reference agencies. And he 
was of the opinion that it was reasonable for VWFS to apply negative markers on Mr Ss 
credit file; for periods where no payments were made towards the account (save for the 
months covered by the payment deferral). 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice, the law and, where appropriate, what would be considered 
to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want to 
assure both parties that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment
on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on
what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
Mr S acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which is a regulated consumer
credit agreement. Our service can look at these sorts of agreements. 
In summary, Mr Ss main complaint point is that he was not treated fairly by VWFS when he 
found himself in financial hardship due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He feels that, as a 
minimum, if the finance agreement cant be reinstated, he would like his credit file not to be 
negatively impacted. 
So, Ive taken the above into consideration and Ive considered whether VWFS have done 
enough to support Mr S, when he told them that he was experiencing financial hardship. 
When doing so, Ive also thought about the relevant rules and guidance at the time. The 
rules and guidance mentioned below referrer to customers and consumers, and I will be 
using these words interchangeably, but in this decision the words are to have the same 
meaning.  
 
On 24 April 2020 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published additional guidance  
Motor finance agreements and coronavirus: temporary guidance for firms. This guidance 
introduced temporary measures for consumers whose finances had been impacted by 
Covid-19, and it builds on Principle 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. In relation to the payment deferrals, the guidance states the 
following: Where a customer is already experiencing or reasonably expects to experience 
temporary payment difficulties as a result of circumstances relating to coronavirus, and 
wishes to receive a payment deferral, a firm should grant the customer a payment deferral 
for three months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) that its obviously not in the 
customers interests to do so. And it states that: In determining whether a three month 
payment deferral is obviously not in customers interests, firms should consider both 
customers need for immediate temporary support and the longer-term effects of a payment 
deferral on the customers situation, in particular the customers ability to repay any accrued 
interest once the payment deferral ends, and over what period. This guidance was further updated by the FCA in July 2020. This update was published a 
short period after Mr S contacted VWFS, but I think it is relevant to this case, as it builds on 
the previous guidance. The guidance states that: There is no expectation under this 
guidance that the firm makes enquiries with each customer to determine the circumstances 
surrounding a request for a payment deferral, or whether this is not in the customers 
interests. Firms can, however, choose to make the enquiries they consider necessary in 
order to satisfy themselves that the customer is eligible for support and to identify whether 
the customer would benefit from any additional support, provided that this does not delay the 
provision of timely support.
Ive considered that all the above issued guidance by the FCA would be applicable to Mr Ss 
situation, as he was in financial hardship due to the Covid-19 pandemic. His account first fell 
into arrears in May 2020 as a direct debit payment went uncollected. And when Mr S 
contacted VWFS during that time and applied for a payment deferral VWFS suspended the 
account. Eventually they agreed to give Mr S a payment deferral, but they asked him to sign 
documents and return it to them. I think granting Mr S a payment deferral was the right 
decision considering the above guidance, but initially they didnt implement the deferral as 
they were waiting for the signed documents. Later in August and September of 2020, Mr S 
made contact with VWFS again to say that he is still abroad and unable to return. During 
these communications he said that he still has no income and is unable to make payments 
towards his finance agreement, so from November 2020 to May 2021 VWFS suspended the 
account again. During all this time, since April 2020 Mr S made no payments towards his 
finance agreement, while the account was suspended, which meant that in May 2021 a total 
of 13 payments were in arrears. 
VWFS have told our service that for six of those 13 months they decided to allow an informal 
payment deferral, and the other seven months worth of payments totalling approximately 
£2,297 they decided to write-off. I think the guidance, as I mentioned above, stipulates that 
there shouldnt be any delay of timely support where individuals are in financial hardship due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. Also, the guidance allows for payment deferrals to be granted for 
a total period of six months, so I think VWFS have now treated Mr S fairly and reasonably by 
allowing his account to be treated as if it was in a payment deferral for the first six months. 
This is exactly what I wouldve expected VWFS to have done considering the guidance 
mentioned above does apply to a situation like the one Mr S found himself in. And I think 
VWFS could have implemented the payment deferral for the first six months even without 
waiting for signed documents to be received back from Mr S. However, Ive gone on to think 
what shouldve happened after the six months, because during the following months Mr S 
was still not making any payments. 
The FCA  Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), and in particular CONC 7, titled Arrears, 
default and recovery (including repossession), say that firms should treat consumers in 
default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. Treating consumers 
with forbearance would include such things as considering suspending, reducing, waiving, or 
cancelling any further interest or charges, allowing deferment of payment of arrears, and 
accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time. I think this applies to Mr S as he 
was still in financial hardship. After the initial six months, Mr S was still not making any 
payments, so his account wouldve incurred further arrears, but we now know that VWFS 
wrote-off the next seven months worth of payments totalling approximately £2,297  which I 
think is very generous. So, considering all the circumstances, I think VWFS have treated Mr 
S with forbearance and due consideration by taking this action. 
 
I know that Mr S wouldve liked VWFS to reinstate the finance agreement or at least for his 
credit file not to be negatively impacted. But I dont think that would be fair and reasonable 
considering the circumstances of this complaint. His account was unsuspended in June 
2021, and VWFS tried to collect a direct debit payment which was rejected, and the next few monthly payments were all rejected too. So, in August 2021 VWFS sent Mr S a default 
notice, at which time the arrears on the account were approximately £2,954. This notice 
explained that if he failed to pay the arrears before 16 September 2021, his agreement may 
be terminated, and when VWFS spoke to Mr S they agreed to extend the time further to the 
end of September 2021. But Mr S didnt contact them until October 2021. So overall, I think 
VWFS were reasonable towards him. A total of 13 payments, as mentioned above, were 
allowed to go unpaid, so I think they were patient with Mr S while they waited to see if his 
circumstances changed, and I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for VWFS to allow the 
arrears to increase indefinitely. That is why I think their decision to terminate the finance 
agreement was a fair and reasonable one. 
I know that Mr S wouldve wanted the finance agreement reinstated but there were 
significant amounts of arrears, so I think it would not have been responsible for VWFS to 
allow Mr S to continue with the finance agreement and get into further arrears. VWFS 
followed the correct procedures when going through with the termination of the agreement. 
In addition, I think it is reasonable for VWFS to report any payments in arrears on Mr Ss 
credit file for periods where no payments were made towards the account, except for the first 
six months covered by the payment deferral and for the following seven months for which 
VWFS written the payments off. So, it is reasonable that any missed payments, after and 
including the June 2021 payment, can be reported to the credit reference agencies. I say this 
because VWFS have a duty to report accurate and fair information to credit reference 
agencies. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr S for the difficulties that he is experiencing, but taking all the 
circumstances of the complaint into account, I dont think Mr S has been treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Mike Kozbial
Ombudsman