DRN-2572867
The complaint
Ms F says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
when she took out a credit card in 2007. 
What happened
I can see that Ms F has already been offered some money back for part of the commission 
Barclays received from selling her the PPI. But one of our adjudicators looked into the mis-
sell element of the case in detail and didnt think Ms F had been mis-sold the policy.
Ms F disagreed and still thought she had been mis-sold the PPI in the first place. She asked 
that an ombudsman make a final decision about her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold 
the complaint about the mis-sale.
Im certain Ms F has provided her best recollection of the sale, but it was some time ago 
now. I say this because Ms F says she thinks this sale took place in a bank branch and was 
a joint PPI policy. But Barclays sent us its computerised records which show the card was 
taken out over the internet and was a single policy. 
We know quite a bit about these sales because weve seen a few of them and weve spoken 
in considerable detail to Barclays about how they were normally carried out.
Barclays also sent us an example of the type of web-based form it thinks Ms F would have 
used during her online credit card application. It says she would have been presented with a 
yes / no choice about having PPI with her new card. Barclays says she would have had to 
choose one of the two options to be able to continue her way through to the next stage of the 
application and that she must have chosen the yes option on the screen for PPI to be 
added.
Theres no dispute Ms F was sold PPI. So, I too think shed have selected the yes option 
and then also started to see the PPI charges appearing on her monthly statements over 
quite a long period of time. I was sent an example of one of her monthly statements which 
showed a charge for Payment Protection Plan on it. I also think Ms F would have been sent 
a welcome letter explaining the PPI because Ive seen other very similar cases where this 
was done.
So, on this basis I think its much more likely Ms F asked for the cover to be added and 
would have been able to see it was optional. I think if she hadnt agreed, she would have 
wanted to know why PPI charges were occurring. I have no evidence she challenged the 
charges.
Barclays didnt provide an advised sale because I think Ms F would have made her own 
way through the on-line application in her own time and without any direct help from 
Barclays. So Barclays needed only to provide her with enough information so she could 
decide for herself whether or not she wanted PPI and whether it was right for her.
I can accept Barclays might not have done everything right. But the application process 
contained an electronic link to information about what the PPI covered. The cost of the 
cover was also shown beside where she was invited to make her choice. So, I think shed 
have had enough information on which to base her decision.
Even if I consider that Barclays could have done more, I dont think this would have changed 
the outcome of what Ms F did. She was eligible for the PPI and wasnt caught by any of the 
major exclusions we tend to see in these policies. And because it cost £0.79 for every £100 
outstanding on her monthly credit card balance, I think it would have been affordable for Ms 
F. In the event of a successful claim on the PPI policy, Ms F would have also been able to 
have her outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. 
Im very sorry to disappoint her, but theres no evidence of a mis-sell.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back all the 
cost of the PPI to Ms F. 
But it does have to pay back to Ms F any commission and profit share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman