DRN-4341893
The complaint
Miss M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from 
the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the 
money once shed reported the scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Miss Ms cousin's Instagram was hacked by scammers who posted stories on her account 
about cryptocurrency investments generating large profits. Having seen the posts, Miss M 
engaged in messages with the account which were from the scammer, pretending to be her 
cousin. 
The scammer recommended a social media page where Miss M she came into contact with 
an individual claiming to work for a company Ill refer to as B who said they could assist her 
to invest in cryptocurrency. The broker asked her to first purchase cryptocurrency through a 
cryptocurrency exchange company and then load the cryptocurrency onto her online wallet. 
Between 15 October 2022 and 17 October 2022, she made six payments to a 
cryptocurrency exchange company totalling £11,507.91.
To fund the investment, Miss M took out a £4,000 loan with NatWest. And when she needed 
money for what she understood was a withdrawal fee, she tried to borrow money from her 
brother who researched the investment and told her it could be a scam. 
Miss M complained to NatWest, but it said it wouldnt refund the money shed lost. It said it 
wasnt the point of loss and it had acted on her genuine instructions to make the payments 
and Miss M had failed to carry out due diligence. It explained its required to make payments 
in accordance with the instructions of its customers and it can only deviate from this position 
where it has reasonable grounds to suspect that a payment would result in a customer being 
the victim of a fraud. 
It said it places appropriate and relevant warning messages across its online banking facility 
to warn customers about scams, and the information is available on its websites and within 
its branches. Warning messages are displayed to consumers before making payments, and 
tailored warnings are displayed before making a transfer or adding a new payee.
It explained the disputed payments were made by Miss M using her secure online banking 
facility, so there were no concerns, they didnt match any fraud trends and were not deemed 
suspicious, so a security check was not generated.
Miss M wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service, arguing NatWest should 
refund the payments and write off the loan. Her representative said the account behaviour 
was concerning because it was much more than shed even spent and should have triggered 
an intervention. They said that if NatWest had intervened, Miss M would have told it she 
came across an investment on social media, and it would immediately have identified this as 
a known fraud trend targeted at young people.
It said Miss M sent a text message on 15 October 2022 to confirm the payment was genuine 
and there was no reason given for the loan. It maintained it had acted on Miss M's genuine 
instruction to make the payments, the debit card payments werent covered by the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code and there was no prospect of a successful 
chargeback because the merchant had fulfilled their services.
It said the payments werent flagged as unusual or suspicious and Miss M had confirmed via 
text message that the payment was genuine. It also said the fact Miss M saw the opportunity 
on social media demonstrates that she was actively looking for an investment opportunity 
and was not approached or cold called. It pointed out Miss M had said she was promised 
high returns on the investment and encouraged to invest more to receive greater profits, 
arguing there were sufficient red flags for her to have questioned whether the investment 
was genuine.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because she didnt think there 
was anything NatWest could have done to change the outcome. She explained NatWest is 
expected to have measures in place to detect unusual activity and intervene appropriately. 
But she didnt think the payments were particularly unusual or suspicious, so she didnt think 
it missed an opportunity to identify the scam. She also said there was no prospect of a 
successful chargeback because its most likely the cryptocurrency exchange company 
provided the intended service.
Miss M has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. She thinks the 
payments were suspicious, particularly those on 17 October 2022, which totalled £6,000, 
which exceeds the £5,000 threshold which this service considers suspicious. She says her 
monthly income is £1,100 and she only uses the account for day-to-day spending. 
Her representative argues that NatWest should have realised Miss M was borrowing money 
to fund an investment and this should have been a red flag, as was the change in account 
activity. They maintain that if NatWest had intervened, Miss M would have told it she came 
across the investment on social media and it would have identified this had the hallmarks of 
a scam and taken steps to warn her that Miss M was at risk of financial harm due to fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Miss M has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Im satisfied Miss M authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Miss M didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did 
authorise the disputed payments. NatWest is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether NatWest could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
NatWest had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a 
wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Miss M when 
she tried to make the payments. If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, 
Id expect NatWest to intervene with a view to protecting Miss M from financial harm.
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on NatWests systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how she 
normally ran her account, and I dont think they were. All the payments were to a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange company and none of them were for particularly large amounts. 
Miss M feels the third payment she made on 19 October 2022 should have triggered an 
intervention because the cumulative sum she paid that day was unusual when compared 
with the usual spending on her account. She paid £3884.63 on 18 October 2022 and 
£524.95 on 19 October, so I dont think the amount transferred on 18 October 2022 was high 
enough to have triggered an intervention. And even if the three transactions had occurred on 
the same day, by the time she made the final payment, shed transferred money to the 
payee on five previous occasions, so it wasnt unusual. So, I dont think NatWest missed an 
opportunity to intervene.
Chargeback
Ive thought about whether NatWest could have done more to recover Miss Ms payments 
when she reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of 
the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. NatWest) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Miss M).
Miss Ms own testimony supports that she used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers to B. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received 
the disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been 
able to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Miss Ms 
payments, they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address 
provided. So, any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that NatWests 
decision not to raise a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange 
companies was fair.Overall, Im satisfied NatWest took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Miss M 
has lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think NatWest is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman