DRN-2585406
The complaint
Mr S complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited treated him unfairly when he made 
a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had a car insurance policy with Admiral. He was involved in an accident in February 
2020 and made a claim. Admiral declared the car a total write-off and settled the claim, 
however Mr S was unhappy with some aspects of how Admiral handled this. In summary, he 
complained that Admiral:
declared his car a total loss when it could have been repaired;
undervalued his car;
took too long to collect the car from where it was stored after the accident;
refused to pay for the cars storage; and 
was too slow to settle the claim.
Admiral acknowledged that there were problems with the collection of his car by its agent, 
and that some of its communication to Mr S had been inadequate. In total, it paid Mr S £155 
to apologise for these failings. However, it said its decision to declare the car a total loss was 
correct, its valuation of Mr Ss car was fair, and rejected his claim for most of his storage 
costs. Mr S wasnt satisfied with this response, so brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld in part. While he 
didnt think Admirals decision to declare the car a total loss was unreasonable, he wasnt 
persuaded that it had communicated its decision clearly to Mr S. And he agreed with Mr S 
that Admiral had taken too long to collect his car from where it was stored after the accident. 
He recommended Admiral pay Mr S an additional £150 for these failings. However, he didnt 
think Admirals valuation of the car was unreasonable, or that Admiral should be liable for Mr 
Ss storage costs.  
Neither party was fully satisfied with our investigators findings. Admiral didnt agree that it 
should pay more compensation; Mr S was unhappy that our investigator didnt recommend 
that Admiral repay his storage charges. The case was passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 15 January 2021. I said:
Mr S has also complained about Admirals response in the immediate aftermath of his 
accident. Thats the subject of a separate complaint to this service so Im not going to cover 
that here. My decision only covers the issues related to his insurance claim.
There are four elements to Mr Ss complaint: declaring the car a total loss; valuation; storage 
costs; and delays in claim and complaint handling. Ill consider each in turn.
Declaring the car a total loss
Mr S is unhappy that Admiral declared his car a total loss when he believes it could have 
been repaired.
Its clear this was a serious accident and Mr Ss car was severely damaged. In his two-hour 
call on 16 February 2020, Mr S described both the accident and damage to his car in detail. 
Among other things, he said a policer officer who attended the scene told him the car was 
most likely a write off.
Towards the end of the call, Admirals advisor explained that, based on the damage Mr S 
described, it is our opinion that the vehicle is a total loss. Mr S acknowledged this but said 
he didnt want the car collected before the total loss was confirmed. He indicated that this 
was in case he wanted a second opinion.
Admiral told us its advisor used a matrix to determine whether the car would be 
uneconomical to repair and that this is standard industry practice. Its engineer would then 
review photos of the damaged vehicle to confirm loss. It told us the only reason it would 
instruct an independent assessor to inspect the car would be if we were dealing with a non-
standard case, for example classic cars or certain imports.
I dont think this approach is unreasonable. As Admiral says, it can help speed up this type 
of claim. And Im satisfied that this wasnt a non-standard case. So I think it was reasonable 
for Admiral to use its matrix approach to determine loss. 
Admirals initial assessment indicated that repairs to the car would be greater than its value. 
Section 10 of the policys General Conditions covers total loss. This says, If your car is 
beyond economic repair, all cover, including the driving of other cars extension if applicable, 
will be cancelled for you and any other drivers on the policy. Once we make a payment to 
you, your car will become our property.
I reviewed the internal note by Admirals engineer on 25 February that said, car looked 
repairable but it looks like we already payed [sic] PH so will add a cat to the car. By that 
stage, Admiral had decided the car was a total loss. The only issue was the category of loss. 
Both categories S and N under the Association of British Insurers Code of Practice signify 
repairable damage. Admiral had paid Mr S on 24 February so by this time the car was 
Admirals property. So I dont think this is significant.
Admiral told Mr S the car was a total loss because the cost of repairs was likely to be greater 
than the cars value on 16 February. It restated this two days later, confirmed its settlement 
offer the same day, paid Mr S three days later, and arranged for his car to be collected the 
same day. Overall, Im satisfied that Admiral acted fairly when it declared Mr Ss car a total 
loss.
Valuation
Admiral offered Mr S £5,540, less his £310 excess, to settle his claim. Mr S believes this 
valuation was too low. He told Admiral that his car was valued at £6,500 three months before 
the accident. Hes also provided screenshots from Admirals website that showed a Cazana 
valuation of his car at £5,921£6,062.
Admiral used three trade guides to value Mr Ss car:
Glasss £5,150
CAP £5,400Parkers £4,855
It initially offered Mr S £5,135, the average of these values. It increased this to £5,540. 
Admiral confirmed the settlement on 21 February, six days after Mr Ss accident.
Section 1.2 of the policy booklet covers payment in the event of damage or loss. It says: If 
we give you a cash sum, the most we will pay is the market value of the car. Market value is 
defined as The cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. So Im satisfied that Admiral 
valued the car in line with Mr Ss policy.
Admiral explained that the Cazana valuation Mr S got from its website was for its car finance 
line and it doesnt use Cazana for insurance settlements. In any case, our investigator got 
the Cazana valuation for Mr Ss car at the time of his accident. This was less than the 
amount Admiral gave him so didnt affect the settlement. 
For the reasons above, Im satisfied that Admirals settlement offer of £5,540 for Mr Ss car 
was fair.
Storage costs
The reason Mr S incurred storage costs was because Admiral didnt recover the car from the 
accident site. That forms part of the separate complaint to this service so Im not going to go 
into the reasons for that in any detail. But it means my starting point is that the damaged car 
was stored on Mr Ss brothers drive from the night of the accident.
Section 1.2 of Mr Ss policy booklet says, If your car cannot be repaired economically, we 
will get it moved to a place of storage as soon as possible. As set out above, Admiral made 
an initial assessment that the car was uneconomical to repair on 16 February, the day after 
the accident. So Id expect Admiral to arrange for Mr Ss car to be moved to storage as soon 
as possible after that.
It isnt clear to me why this wasnt done. I can see Mr S said he didnt want the car collected 
before a total loss had been agreed. But Admiral told us, we do not need to have a salvage 
category on a car for it to be collected. And given it confirmed the car was a total loss on 18 
February it could have collected the car almost immediately. It didnt instruct its agent to do 
this until 21 February. The car was eventually collected on 4 March. 
Mr S says Admiral agreed to cover his storage costs during a phone call on 18 February. He 
says he paid his brother £665  19 days storage at £35 per day  and sent us two 
documents to prove this:
A bank receipt showing a cash withdrawal of £665 on 4 March 2020.
A letter dated 4 March 2020 saying where the car was parked, daily charge, total 
cost, and confirming Mr S had settled this in full.
Admiral refused to pay the full storage costs. It said its advisor told Mr S on 18 February that 
the car should be collected and put into free storage, but Mr S declined. It agreed only to 
cover storage for two days. 
Admiral told us the car wasnt at a recognised storage facility, it doesnt consider payments 
to family members a legal binding contract, and that its advisor was wrong when she told Mr 
S that these costs would be covered. It also said it first tried to collect the car on 28 February 
but was unable to do so.Ive listened to the two calls Admiral has provided from 18 February. Admirals internal notes 
and letter to Mr S on 6 March suggest there was a third call (at 8.51am)  the call Admiral 
says Mr S refused to allow the car to be collected. Unfortunately, despite requests, Admiral 
hasnt provided this to us.
In the first call, Mr S told the advisor that the car was being stored on his brothers 
drive at £35 per day. The Admiral advisor said: If you can provide proof of what 
youve had to pay for the daily charge once the cars been collected, because 
obviously its going to incur until we get it, we could look to reimburse you for that. 
In the second, the same advisor said shed discussed the costs with her manager 
between calls. She said: If you are to send in proof of any charges that you incurred 
daily we could look to reimburse you for that. Storage is something we would 
normally only pay £20 a day for if it was in one of our storage units. But because this 
is something that youve had to go and arrange yourself, we would look to cover the 
additional amount.
Ive seen other correspondence that mention the cars storage. For example, Admirals letter 
to Mr S on 26 February says, I see from the records that you have advised us of costs for 
keeping your car on a family members drive. Before I can consider such reimbursement, I 
will require evidence of this. Mr Ss emails to Admirals Claims team on 23 and 27 February 
said his storage costs were mounting. At no point did Admiral question Mr Ss arrangement 
with his brother or suggest that his costs wouldnt be covered either because this 
arrangement was informal or was with a family member.
Ive thought very carefully about this. I think Mr S paying his brother £35 a day for keeping 
the car on his brothers drive is unusual. I also think its excessive. This wasnt a commercial 
storage facility and was an informal arrangement. I also have reservations about the 
evidence Mr S provided.
However, Admiral could have done one of two things. It could have insisted on removing the 
car, particularly once it knew what Mr S was being charged. Or it could have told Mr S that it 
wouldnt cover the charges levied by his brother for storing the car on a private drive. It did 
neither.
Instead, it told Mr S that his storage expenses would be conditional on him providing 
evidence of his costs. He provided this. Admiral hasnt questioned the validity of this 
evidence  it simply decided that it didnt like the arrangement with his brother. On balance, 
and given the discussions it had with Mr S about storage, I dont think Admirals reasons for 
rejecting Mr Ss claim for storage costs were fair.
I do, however, agree with Admiral that Mr S had a responsibility to mitigate those costs. I 
think that if Mr Ss brother was willing to store the car for a daily fee, he should have made 
sure someone was available to Admirals agent when they wanted to collect it. Admirals 
agent first tried to collect the car on 28 February. I think the storage costs should be capped 
at that date and at Admirals normal rate for car storage  £20 per day. Im satisfied this is 
the amount it would have cost Admiral to store the vehicle.
The car was delivered to Mr Ss brothers home after close of business on 15 February. 
Admiral has already paid Mr Ss storage costs for two days (16 and 17 February). So I think 
it should also pay for storage from 18 to 28 February 2020 (11 days) at £20 per day. It 
should pay interest on this amount at 8% simple a year.
Delays in claim and complaint handlingAdmiral accepted there had been delays in both areas, as well as failures in its 
communication with Mr S. Altogether, it has offered Mr S £155 for its poor communication 
and delay in categorising loss. I think this represents a fair and reasonable reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience Mr S suffered as a result of the poor service he received. I make 
no further award on these points.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S thanked me for my review but had concerns with my findings about storage. 
Specifically, he disagreed with my proposal to cap storage costs at 28 February. He 
explained that Admirals agent said it would collect the car on 27 February but didnt show 
up. He sent us a recording of his phone call with Admiral later that day. During this call, 
Admiral apologised and agreed to call Mr S before it collected the car. Mr S says that had it 
done so, he could have arranged for someone to be available to hand over the keys.  
Admiral didnt agree with me on the storage costs either. It said:
Mr S insisted on using [a third party recovery service] to recover the car following 
his accident.
Mr S only confirmed he didnt want to retain the car as salvage on 21 February. 
Admiral instructed its recovery agent the same day.
Its agent tried to collect the car on 28 February. Mr Ss brother wasnt at home and 
the childminder who answered the door refused to provide the keys.
Recovery was rescheduled for 2 March, then rescheduled again by Mr S for 4 March.
Based on that, Admiral said the earliest it could have collected the car was 24 February. As 
such, it was prepared to cover Mr Ss storage from 24 to 28 February at £20 per day (£100), 
plus interest.
Neither party commented on my other findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party commented on my findings about Admirals decision to declare the car a 
total loss, its valuation, and the delays in claim and complaint handling, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision on these points. So Ill focus here on the remaining issue  
the storage costs.
First, Admiral said Mr S insisted on using a third party recovery service following his 
accident. Ive listened to Mr Ss phone call to Admiral when he reported the accident. This 
forms part of Mr Ss separate complaint to us, so I dont intend to go into this in any detail. 
However, Admiral has separately acknowledged its call handlers failings and is well aware 
why Mr S used the third party recovery service. To say Mr S insisted on using another 
recovery service is simply not true.
Ive thought carefully about what both parties have said about storage. However, neither 
party has provided any new information that changes my mind on this point. 
I dont think Admirals proposal to cover storage only from 24 to 28 February is fair. As I said 
in my provisional decision, Admiral could have collected the car at any point from 18 
February. I dont think Mr Ss decision about salvage is relevant. In any case, that doesnt 
explain why the car wasnt collected until a week after Mr S made that decision. Finally, Admiral still hasnt provided us with a recording of the third phone call on 18 February when 
it says Mr S refused to allow the car to be collected. Overall, I dont think its made a 
reasonable argument why it shouldnt pay for storage from the date of the accident until 28 
February. 
Having listened to Mr Ss phone call with Admiral on 27 February, I can understand his 
frustration when the car wasnt collected that day as arranged. Its clear he asked Admiral to 
call him the following morning to confirm what time the car would be collected. Im respectful 
of the reason Mr Ss brother wasnt at home when Admirals recovery agent visited, and I 
understand why the childminder wasnt prepared to give them the keys.
But none of that changes the key point I made in my provisional decision. If Mr Ss brother 
was willing to store the car for a daily fee, it was his responsibility to make sure someone 
was available to Admirals agent when they wanted to collect it. Put another way, if the car 
had been kept at a professional storage facility, Admirals agent could have turned up to 
collect the car at any time. They visited to collect the car on 28 February but were unable to 
do so. Im satisfied that the storage costs should be capped at that date.
The car was delivered to Mr Ss brothers home after close of business on 15 February. 
Admiral has already paid Mr Ss storage costs for two days (16 and 17 February). Im 
satisfied that it should also pay for the cars storage from 18 to 28 February 2020 (11 days) 
at £20 per day. It should pay interest on this amount at 8% simple a year.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint for the reasons and require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to pay Mr S £220, plus interest at 8% simple a year from 4 March 2020 to 
the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman