DRN-4150322
The complaint
Ms F complains about a number of issues concerning her credit card account held with 
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known by both parties, so I wont repeat them here.
In April 2023, I issued a provisional decision outlining the reasons why I believe Virgin 
Money had done enough to put things right in this case. I said:
The impact of the Covid-19 pandemic
Ms F says as a result of being ill with Covid, financial difficulties and the death of her mother, 
she missed a number of payments on her credit card in 2021. However she believes given 
the circumstances, Virgin Money should waive the arrears, refund the charges applied and 
remove the adverse information from her credit file. 
Im sorry to hear about the number of things Ms F went through, especially the passing of 
her mother during what was an unprecedented event of the pandemic. I understand going 
through all of this wouldve been a difficult time for her. 
The financial regulator said financial businesses should provide a payment deferral for three 
months which could be extended by a further three months for those negatively impacted by 
the pandemic. This was meant as a temporary and immediate support measure. Im satisfied 
that guidance applied to Ms F and I find Virgin Money acted fairly in agreeing to a three 
month payment deferral. Their records show they contacted her by text message to let her 
know the deferral was coming to an end in May 2021. Ms F was required to resume 
payments in June 2021.
I appreciate given what Ms F was going through at the time, paying her credit card was 
unlikely to have been at the forefront of her mind. However theres no indication she had 
made Virgin Money aware of what was happening or she was still struggling financially. She 
hadnt contacted them for some time. 
Without knowing this information, I cant say Virgin Money did anything wrong by saying she 
needed to resume payments in June 2021. As no payments were received, they attempted 
to call her in July 2021 but they were unable to speak to her. 
Ive reviewed the terms of the agreement, the parts most relevant to this complaint says:
Each month you must pay at least the minimum payment in pounds sterling, shown on your 
statement
It also goes on to say:
If we do not receive the Minimum Payment by the payment date, we will apply the late 
payment default charge set out in our tariff. We will also let credit reference agencies know 
you have not paid and this could make it more difficult for you to get credit.
Based on the statements presented to me, Ms F failed to make the minimum payments in 
June and July 2021 following the end of the payment deferral. So in line with the above 
terms, Im satisfied Virgin Money were entitled to apply late payment charges and report the 
same to the credit reference agencies so I wont be asking them to remove it.
Ive seen letters sent to Ms Fs address in September 2021 confirming she was two months 
in arrears and as a result, the account would be blocked to prevent any further spending. I 
believe this was a reasonable course of action by Virgin Money to prevent the debt from 
increasing.
Ms F contacted Virgin Money in September 2021. That is around four months after the 
deferral ended which I consider to be a significant period of time. Based on the contact 
notes, she told the advisor she was now residing in the USA and provided her US address, 
phone number and email. The notes indicate she didnt want her UK address to be removed 
as her family still lived there but she said it would be best to contact her on her US number 
or email. She also told them she had recently returned to work and her mother had passed 
away. She asked for the arrears be waived but the advisor said that wouldnt be possible. 
While I understand the difficult time Ms F had been going through, I dont find Virgin Money 
was obliged to write off the arrears so I cant say they did anything wrong by not agreeing to 
it. 
That said, I would expect them to consider her individual circumstances, vulnerabilities and 
treat her with due consideration and forbearance if she was still struggling financially. During 
that call, the advisor offered a six month payment plan of £37.50 but Ms F chose not to 
accept this. While she was entitled to do so, I believe Virgin Money acted fairly in offering 
such a plan, its clear they were making efforts to help her bring the account back up to date. 
During that same call, she was advised on the accounts status including the balance, the 
arrears, the minimum payment amount, when the next payment was due and how to pay it. 
She was told of the consequences of not meeting the same including the charges and the 
impact on her credit file. So I cant say she wasnt made aware of what would happen should 
she not do so. Ms F proceeded to make two payments in September 2021.
In October 2021, Virgin Money attempted to call Ms F on a number of occasions without 
success. Its unclear whether they called her US or UK number. They also sent a letter to her 
UK address to confirm the account was in arrears and it will remain blocked until they 
received payment. As she didnt want her UK address removed, I cant say they did anything 
wrong by sending correspondence to that address. 
Ive reviewed a number of statements between July 2021 and May 2022, the minimum 
payments were all £25 which needed to be paid by the 30th of each month. This information 
was reiterated in Septembers call as well as the account balance so Im satisfied Ms F was 
made aware of the same and she knew she needed to take action.
Ms F made a payment of £23 on 29 October 2021 by telephone. However as this was less 
than the minimum payment, Virgin Money fairly considered that to be a third missed 
payment. As a result, they decided to permanently block the account and having looked at 
the terms, I find they were permitted to do so as there was a reasonable risk the debt 
wouldnt be repaid.  
Overall, I find Virgin Money acted fairly and in line with the terms. They agreed to a Covid-19 
payment deferral during the time of Ms Fs financial difficulty. They made reasonable attempts to contact her when she didnt resume payments and once they were made aware 
of her circumstances, they made attempts to support her. They also took steps to make sure 
the debt didnt increase. Therefore I cant say they did anything wrong. 
Managing the account
Ms F complains as a result of the account being permanently blocked she experienced 
difficulty managing it. She said to avoid further charges and adverse impact on her credit file, 
she wanted to pay the outstanding balance and close the account.
Ive listened to the calls she made in December 2021. She made it clear she didnt have a 
copy of her statements, she wanted to clear the balance but she didnt know what it was. 
However during these calls, she failed to pass Virgin Moneys security questions, specifically 
the account balance, credit limit and mobile number. Given Ms F was without her statements 
and wanted to confirm the account balance, its not surprising she had difficulty answering 
these questions. The advisors told her the questions were automatically generated and they 
had no control which ones she was asked. Given the situation, I can understand why Ms F 
was frustrated by this. She was told she would be passed to a specialist team.
There is limited information about the conversation with the specialist team but from my 
understanding, she was told she needed to send documents to verify her identity. Security 
measures such as answering verification questions and the requirement to provide 
identification are put in place to protect consumers and financial businesses. Each business 
will have their own security policies and processes to identify consumers so I cant say Virgin 
Money did anything wrong by asking such questions and requiring further identification when 
Ms F failed their security process. 
For a consumer residing in the UK, providing identity documents may not have posed too 
much of a problem albeit a level of inconvenience. But given Ms F had made it clear she was 
living in the US I can understand why sending her passport by post to the UK wasnt a 
feasible option. 
Given her circumstances, I wouldve expected Virgin Money to have proactively considered 
an alternative option. For example, to consider allowing her to send a copy of her identity 
documents by email. However that didnt happen. Virgin Money accept they failed to provide 
an adequate level of service. They said they couldve escalated matters to a manager to see 
whether she couldve provided her identification by other means. For this, theyve offered 
£75 compensation for the trouble and upset caused and I believe this is fair. 
The default
Ms F maintains as the account was blocked and she was unable to discuss it by phone, she 
was unable to clear the outstanding balance and close the account as she wanted. Given 
what had happened, Im satisfied Ms F knew arrears were building, she wasnt making 
payments each month and she needed to take action. There is insufficient evidence to 
support Ms Fs claim she called every month between August and December 2021 and 
made payments of £100. 
Based on the payment history, the last payment was in January 2022 for £42. I note this 
payment was made after the account was blocked and after she was told she needed to 
provide her identification documents. This indicates she was still able to make payments and 
she had the account details to do so. Therefore in my opinion, it wouldve been reasonable 
for her to do so but that never happened.  In May 2022, Virgin Money issued a default notice. Generally speaking, financial businesses 
can consider defaulting an account when its three months in arrears and a default is 
expected to be in place by the time of six months arrears. By that time, Ms Fs account was 
more than three months in arrears so I find it was fair for them to initiate default proceedings.  
A copy of the default notice was sent to her UK postal address. Ms F may argue the 
correspondence couldve been sent by email but I must point out Virgin Money wasnt 
obliged to do so. Its reasonable for them to send such written correspondence to the postal 
address held on their records, which was her UK address as she previously told them she 
didnt want it removed. 
The default notice said she was required to pay the outstanding balance of £149 by 8 June 
2022. As no payment was received by that date, the account was defaulted and sold to a 
third party company who I will refer to as G. The terms allowed Virgin Money to do the same.
Ms F is likely to say had shed been able to discuss her account sooner, she wouldve 
settled the debt thereby avoiding the default. I can understand why she may feel this way but 
Im not convinced this wouldve made a material difference. On balance, I believe the 
account still wouldve defaulted.  
I say this because based on the payment history from September 2021 onwards, which is 
when Ms F told Virgin Money she was back at work, she failed on many occasions to make 
the minimum payments despite her knowing she needed to do so. She also mentioned for 
the payments in October 2021 and January 2022, they were made by a friend on her behalf. 
If Ms F was in the financial position to make such payments, I would have expected them to 
be made by her.  
Theres insufficient evidence for me to reasonably say had Ms F been able to discuss the 
account around December 2021, she wouldve brought it back up to date within a 
reasonable period of time to avoid a default. As the notice wasnt satisfied by the required 
date, I find Virgin Money acted fairly in defaulting the account so I dont intend to ask them to 
remove it. 
Im willing to consider any evidence Ms F wishes to provide to dispute this. 
Other 
Ive seen evidence to show the payments made in September, October, December 2021 and 
January 2022 were applied to the account thereby reducing the outstanding balance. Im 
satisfied these payments were taken into account when Virgin Money calculated what was 
owed at the time of the default and when it was sold to G. 
Ms F says since the account was sold to G in July 2022, shes made a number of payments 
however Ive seen no evidence to show the same. Virgin Moneys records show the last 
payment was in January 2022. G confirmed no payments have been received and the 
outstanding debt remains the same as when they bought it, that is £210. In the absence of 
any evidence to the contrary, its reasonable for me to rely on this information. However if Ms 
F is able to provide any evidence to dispute this, Im willing to consider the same. 
Taking everything into account, I find there has been a service failing by Virgin Money. They 
shouldve considered alternative options for Ms F to verify her identity so she could discuss 
her account.  Virgin Money has already made an offer to pay £75 compensation to Ms F for 
the trouble and upset and I think this offer is fair so I wont be asking them to do anything 
further to resolve the complaint. For all the other issues such as defaulting the account, Im 
satisfied they acted fairly and in line with the terms. 
Response to the provisional decision Both parties were invited to respond to the provisional decision. Virgin Money had no further 
comments, they confirmed they are still willing to pay £75 compensation. 
Ms F said there were a number of discrepancies. She maintained her stance and 
commented:
- She returned to work in October;
- She made a payment in August by telephone;
- Her friend made some payments to the account and she had evidence of the same;
- She provided her US address in March when she discussed a payment plan, prior to 
that, Virgin Money had never asked for her US address;
- She received no text messages from Virgin Money and the only way she could speak 
to them was by calling by phone;
- Virgin Money delayed answering her complaint raised in January 2022 when she 
complained she couldnt access the account but still charged late fees;
- She would like to know the exact status of the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mrs F for her further comments however I dont find its material new evidence which 
would change the overall outcome. I say this because there remains insufficient evidence 
she made payments over and above those already outlined above. For example, theres no 
evidence from either party a payment was made in August (neither 2021 or 2022). As 
outlined in my provisional decision, Ive already taken into consideration the payments made 
by her friend in October 2021 and January 2022. Im satisfied Virgin Money has taken them 
into account when determining what Ms F owes. 
In terms of the US address, its Ms Fs responsibility to let Virgin Money know of her correct 
and up to date contact details. My provisional findings on this were based on Virgin Moneys 
contact notes. In the absence of the actual call recordings, I find it was fair for me to rely on 
that evidence. 
I find Virgin Money acted fairly by sending correspondence to the postal address held on 
their records, they werent obliged to send emails. Virgin Moneys records show text 
messages were sent but on balance, I believe its most likely they were sent to her UK 
number. But for the same reasons already outlined, I cant say Virgin Money did anything 
wrong by attempting to communicate with Ms F based on the contact details held on their 
system. 
Moving forward, Ms F will need to contact G to arrange payment of the outstanding debt 
which from my understanding is around £210. Their contact details have already been 
provided to Ms F. 
On the basis I havent been provided with any further information to change my decision I 
still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Therefore, my final 
decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay 
£75 compensation to Ms F for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman