DRN-3267220
The complaint
Mrs C and Ms B complain on behalf of the estate of X, their late mother.
They say that Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited hasnt been fair in how it dealt 
with the money back guarantee for an annuity that they took out on behalf of their late 
mother, and that this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In June 2020, Mrs C and Ms B purchased a care home annuity on behalf of their mother 
through an independent financial advisor. They paid a single premium of £304,407. 
The policy commenced on 25 June 2020, and Mrs C and Ms B received the policy 
documents in a letter dated 10 July 2020. There was a cooling off period that gave the right 
to cancel the policy within 30 days of receipt of the letter (10 August 2020).
The policy terms also provided a money back guarantee in particular circumstances if the 
person covered by the policy was to pass away within a year of commencement. 
At the time the policy was purchased, there were ongoing restrictions regarding visitation to 
care homes because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, meaning that communication with 
residents was limited to Skype and occasional outside visits.
Mrs C and Ms Bs mother was taken into hospital on 25 July 2020 with an infection but 
discharged the next day. On 30 July 2020, there was communication via Skype, and Mrs C 
says that her mother seemed much brighter  although there were concerns about her being 
made to self-isolate and the impact this was having on her mental health given that she was 
already suffering with dementia. After speaking with the care home, it was agreed that she 
could re-join the other residents.
On 9 August, there was further communication, and at this point, Mrs C had serious 
concerns about the health of her mother. Sadly, she passed away on 17 August 2020.
Mrs C and Ms B contacted Partnership, who said that they would make a lump sum payment 
of 50% to their mothers estate  minus any annuities paid. They were unhappy with this and 
felt that the estate should receive the full premium paid, minus any annuities paid, and made 
a complaint to Partnership.
Partnership didnt uphold the complaint. As Mrs C and Ms B remained unhappy, they 
brought the complaint to this Service.
Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld.
In summary, they said that Partnership had acted within the terms set out in the policy, and 
that it hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs C and Ms B disagreed, in summary they said:
Had they known how unwell their mother was, they wouldve cancelled the policy 
within the cooling off period of 30 days.
Because of the ongoing restrictions, they were unable to see how unwell their mother 
had become, and they werent kept up to date on their mothers condition by the 
care home.
While Covid-19 was not listed as a contributory on their mothers death certificate, 
they believed the Covid-19 pandemic did contribute to her death.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid that I dont think that this complaint should be upheld, and I wont 
be asking Partnership to do any more than has already been done. I know that this will be 
extremely disappointing for Mrs C and Ms B, so Ill explain why.
Before I do so, I would like to offer my condolences to Mrs C and Ms B on the loss of their 
mother and the distressing circumstances surrounding their complaint. I know that this has 
been a very difficult time for them both, and it is clear that they are both extremely upset by 
what has happened, and I can understand why. 
Firstly, I need to consider if Partnership has applied the terms of the policy correctly  in 
particular the terms relating to the money back guarantee that the policy provided.
The terms relating to this are set out in section 4.1 of the policy conditions as follows:
if you die within six months starting on the Commencement Date and Covid-19 is not 
recorded on your death certificate as a contributory cause of death, we will pay a lump sum. 
The lump sum will be calculated as follows:
If you die within one month of the Commencement Date, the lump sum will be equal 
to the Single Premium less any Annuity payments already made.
If you die more than one month but no more than three months after the 
Commencement Date, we will return 50% of the Single Premium less the sum of any 
Annuity payments already made. If the total Annuity payments made before your 
death is more than 50% of the Single Premium, no lump sum payment will be made.
[] if you die within twelve months starting on the Commencement Date and Covid-19 is
recorded on your death certificate as a contributory cause of death, we will pay a lump sum.
This lump sum will be equal to the Single Premium less any Annuity payments already 
made.
I havent been provided with a copy of the death certificate of Mrs C and Ms Bs late mother, 
however both Partnership and Mrs C and Ms B agree that it does not list Covid-19 as a 
contributory cause of death. 
Mrs C and Ms Bs late mother sadly passed away on 17 August 2020  which is over one 
month, but within three months after the commencement date of 25 June 2020. This means 
that the estate is only entitled to receive 50% of the premium, minus any annuity payments 
that have been made. The estate would only be entitled to receive the whole premium if the 
person covered by the policy either passed away within one month of the commencement date, or 12 months of the commencement date if Covid-19 was a contributory factor in the 
death.
Im afraid that while I can see that the Covid-19 pandemic did cause a lot of disruption and  
complications for visits to the care home Im not persuaded that Covid-19 did contribute to 
the death of Mrs C and Ms Bs late mother as this isnt what has been recorded. 
I understand that Mrs C and Ms B say that had they known how ill their mother was, they 
wouldve cancelled the policy during the cooling off period, especially given the large 
difference in money their mothers estate wouldve received from the money back guarantee. 
They say that had they been able to visit their mother that they wouldve realised how 
changed she had become and made the decision to cancel the policy. Mrs C has also 
provided a WhatsApp screen shot from 29 July 2020 showing that she had reluctantly raised 
the sensitive topic with Ms B.
I dont doubt that Mrs C and Ms B did consider cancelling the policy but ultimately, they 
didnt do so. And while I understand that it may have been incredibly difficult to monitor their 
mothers deteriorating health during this time, I dont think that Partnership contributed to this 
in any way.
So, while Mrs C and Ms B have my sympathy, Im afraid that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Ms B 
on behalf of the estate of X to accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman