DRN-4112767
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) lent to him irresponsibly by 
increasing his overdraft limit over a short period of time when there was evidence of 
gambling. 
What happened
Mr W successfully applied online for an overdraft with a limit of £50 in May 2021. This was 
increased to £450 on 1 June and £720 on 7 June. There were further increases until the 
overdraft reached its highest limit of £1,800.  
Mr W complained to BOS that the overdraft lending was irresponsible. BOS said based on 
the checks it did both internally and externally and on the information Mr W had provided 
about his income and expenditure that it was satisfied the lending was affordable. But BOS 
upheld Mr Ws complaint as it agreed that on review of the transactions on Mr Ws 
statements it shouldnt have increased Mr Ws overdraft on 7 June and continued with the 
overdraft lending given the multiple gambling transactions between 1 and 3 June 2021.
To put things right BOS:
Refunded all overdraft fees and charges applied since 8 June 2021 amounting to 
£372.15.
This was credited to Mr Ws account on 4 April 2023 and was enough to repay the 
outstanding balance of Mr Ws overdraft.
BOS then removed the overdraft facility and applied a marker to the account to stop 
Mr W from applying for further lending.
BOS paid £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr W was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ws complaint and thought that what BOS had 
already done to settle the complaint was in line with what wed recommend and didnt think 
BOS should do anything more.  
Mr W disagreed. He doesnt believe the £100 compensation addresses the months of 
suffering. He says the overdraft has put a strain on his marriage and his mental health. He is 
also unhappy at the service he received from BOS and that he was only given 30 days to 
pay back the overdraft and wasnt offered a repayment plan. So Mr W has now asked that 
his complaint be progressed for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what BOS has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. 
In this case, after reviewing Mr Ws overdraft applications and bank statements, I agree that 
while there was little evidence of gambling up until the end of May 2021 from 1 June the 
amount and value of gambling transactions dramatically increased and it was evident Mr W 
wasnt managing his overdraft in a sustainable way. 
BOS has already done what Id expect it to do to put things right based on this finding  as 
outlined above. Mr W was refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by the 
overdraft facility. Furthermore, it has now removed the overdraft facility and added a marker 
to his account to stop this type of lending in the future and compensated Mr W £100. All of 
this is in-line with what Id recommend.
I accept that Mr W is unhappy that he wasnt offered a repayment plan. But I can see in 
BOSs letter it provided Mr W with a number to call if he needed help with repaying his 
overdraft and I cant see he ever did. Furthermore, having reviewed the statements leading 
up to his overdraft being withdrawn Im not persuaded he needed a repayment plan. As I can 
see there is a lot of discretionary spending on things such as fast food and leisure. And Mr 
Ws overdraft was paid off in full when BOS applied the refund to his account. 
So I dont think BOS did anything wrong here. 
Mr W is unhappy with the amount of compensation paid. He says BOSs irresponsible 
lending has caused him months of suffering and affected his mental health. 
Ive thought about what Mr W has said. And what hes said is a reason for upholding his 
complaint rather than a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things right 
in cases such as his. BOS has already refunded all the charges and interest applied to his 
account in-line with what Id expect and on top of that paid Mr W £100 compensation.  
Taking this all into consideration, Im not persuaded further compensation is due or would 
make a material difference to Mr Ws circumstances. So it follows that I think what BOS has 
done to put things right is enough and Im not requiring it to do anything more.
 My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Bank of Scotland plc has already done 
to put things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So Im 
not requiring it to do any more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman