DRN-3628223
The complaint
Mrs C complains that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) 
has repeatedly failed to deal with pension contributions from her, and her employers, in an 
efficient manner.
What happened
Mrs C holds a personal pension plan with Royal London. That plan is used to receive regular 
pension contributions from Mrs Cs employer, and to receive ad-hoc personal contributions 
from Mrs C herself. Mrs C has complained that, over an extended period of time, the 
administration of those contributions by Royal London has been poor.
Mrs Cs problems first appear to have started in January 2021 when Mrs C, on behalf of her 
employer, asked that Royal London reduce the regular pension contribution it was collecting. 
Mrs C says that Royal London failed to action that request, and the wrong amount was 
collected. But since Mrs C then left that employer, it effectively corrected Royal Londons 
mistake by an agreed deduction to her final pay.
In April 2021 Mrs C got in touch with Royal London to advise that she had just paid a single 
contribution of £8,000. She confirmed that she agreed for Royal London to levy its usual 
additional annual management charge of 0.1% on her contribution as it had not been paid 
with the assistance of a financial advisor. And she told Royal London that her new employer 
would shortly commence making regular contributions, and a couple of days later her 
employer provided Royal London with its authority and a direct debit mandate. Despite the 
employers request, Royal London failed to provide confirmation that the mandate had been 
received.
By the end of April 2021, Royal London had failed to collect the first contribution from the 
new employer when it had become due. And it had failed to add Mrs Cs ad-hoc contribution 
to her pension savings. The ad-hoc contribution was added to the pension in May 2021, 
more than a month after it had been received. But the second employer contribution, due 
that month, also failed to be collected. 
Royal London apologised to Mrs C for the delays, and reassured her that the payments due 
from the employer would be requested in June 2021. And it told Mrs C that both the 
employer payments, and her one-off contribution, would be treated as if they had been 
added to her pension when they were due, or had been paid, so she wouldnt lose out on 
any investment growth. It told Mrs C that its processing delays were being addressed.
Mrs C made a further ad-hoc contribution to her pension in September 2021. But it took 
Royal London over three weeks to apply that contribution to Mrs Cs pension savings  and 
again Mrs C needed to chase extensively before the payment was applied.
Mrs Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think that 
Royal London had treated Mrs C fairly. She asked Royal London to put things right by 
providing Mrs C with an apology and a clear explanation of what had happened and the 
steps that it would take to stop the issue occurring again in the future. The investigator asked 
that Royal London refund any administration fees it had taken for the payments credited in 
2021. And she asked Royal London to pay Mrs C £300 for the inconvenience it had caused.
Disappointingly Royal London didnt respond to that assessment. More recently Mrs C has 
made a further ad-hoc contribution to her pension savings. She says she made that payment 
online and it was successfully applied to her pension savings around two weeks later.
But, since the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mrs C accepts my decision it 
is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs C and by Royal London. Where the evidence is unclear, or there 
are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Earlier in this decision I set out a brief summary of what Mrs C says has happened in her 
dealings with Royal London over the past year. It doesnt seem that Royal London disputes 
any of the timeline that Mrs C has set out, or that it has failed to provide levels of service or 
customer care at the levels it would expect. So it seems that what is left for me to decide 
here is what Royal London should do in order to recognize the inconvenience that has been 
caused to Mrs C, and prevent the problems from reoccurring in the future.
As I said earlier, Mrs C has made what she would consider to be a successful ad-hoc 
payment earlier this year. She said that the payment was made online, using her normal 
policy reference, and it was applied to her pension savings around two weeks later. She 
says that she thinks that timescale is reasonable.
But Mrs C remains, quite reasonably, concerned that future payments might not be 
processed in such a straightforward manner given the problems she has experienced in the 
past. And Mrs C says that she is unlikely to make another ad-hoc payment until the start of 
the next tax year in April 2023. So I think it would be appropriate, as part of putting things 
right, for Royal London to provide Mrs C with a detailed explanation of how she should make 
future payments, the timescales she should expect for those payments to be applied to her 
pension savings, and a point of contact should anything go wrong.
Part of the reason that Royal London gave to Mrs C for the earlier delays was that it needed 
her to agree to pay an additional annual management charge for her contributions. Although 
Mrs C had provided that agreement at the outset, Royal London asked for her confirmation 
on a number of occasions. Given the problems with the processing of those payments I think it would be fair for those additional annual management charges to be refunded to Mrs Cs 
pension savings in respect of the contributions she made in 2021.
There is no doubt that Royal Londons errors have caused Mrs C some distress and 
inconvenience. She has needed to spend time correcting Royal Londons administrative 
errors both on her own, and her employers, behalf. I think a payment of £300 would be fair 
in recognition of that inconvenience.
Putting things right
Royal London failed to administer Mrs Cs pension contributions effectively during 2021. 
Those failures have caused reasonable doubt for Mrs C about how future payments should 
be made. So Royal London should;
Write to Mrs C setting out the detailed process she should follow when making future 
one-off contributions to her pension savings. Royal London should set out in that 
letter the timescales when Mrs C should expect to see her contributions processed 
and applied to her pension savings. And it should provide Mrs C with a single point of 
contact should any problems arise with her next ad-hoc contribution that she expects 
to make in, or after, April 2023.
Refund to Mrs Cs pension savings any additional annual management charges that 
have been applied to the contributions she made in 2021.
Pay Mrs C £300 for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused by the 
administrative failings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and direct The Royal London Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman