DRN-2953720
The complaint
The estate of Mr P complains about the suitability of the advice he was given by Portal 
Financial Services LLP (Portal) in 2010, to transfer his drawdown plan to a self invested 
personal pension (SIPP) and to invest into Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes 
(UCIS). The investments are now illiquid and so the estate would like compensation for the 
financial losses that have been sustained because of the advice.
What happened
In 2010 Mr P met with Portal to discuss his options around the personal pension plans 
(PPPs) he held. The total transfer value of the three PPPs was £73,705 and Portal said he 
could:
Leave the PPPs with the current providers.
Draw the full benefits  taking 25% tax free cash, and a residual income.
Release the tax free cash and leave the residual funds invested.
As he needed to pay off some outstanding credit card and overdraft liabilities, Mr P accepted 
a recommendation to release his tax free cash and leave the fund invested until he required 
further income. This option was known as pension fund drawdown and meant transferring 
his PPPs into a new plan. That plan started in May 2010 and had a selected retirement age 
of 65 with the funds invested into balanced risk rated funds. 
In October 2010 Portal made a further recommendation for Mr P to transfer his new plan, 
now valued at £53,590, into a SIPP with another provider.  The SIPP was to be invested 
across three UCIS funds. The initial fees to set up the SIPP were £528.75. Portal recorded 
Mr Ps objectives as being to maximise his pension at retirement within his attitude to risk 
(ATR) and his overall financial situation. 
In March 2016 Mr P complained to Portal about the service he said hed received from it and 
about the suitability of the funds his SIPP was invested into. He said he hadnt been given 
any written confirmation about the funds he was invested in and was generally suspicious 
of them. Portal didnt receive the complaint until the following year but didnt uphold it. It said 
it had provided Mr P with all the relevant information including about the nature of the funds 
and the risks attached. It said it was satisfied it had provided suitable advice for Mr Ps 
circumstances and objectives.
In March 2018 Portal wrote to Mr P about the ongoing illiquidity of his pension funds  and 
the cessation of the income payments he had expected to receive. It offered to meet the cost 
of the 2018 annual income hed been expecting and made an offer to pay him £3,022.
Unfortunately, Mr P passed away in September 2018  so the complaint wasnt progressed. 
But in June 2020, following her attempts to claim the pension fund, Mr Ps daughter 
discovered that the funds in the SIPP were illiquid, so she raised a complaint on behalf of 
her late fathers estate. 
She said she believed hed been given poor advice around the investments within his SIPP 
and had been unable to enjoy his retirement due to lack of income he received. She said the 
pension fund should be put back into the position it would now be in had suitable advice 
been given.
Portal said that the complaint had been brought outside of the time limits allowed as it had 
already been answered in 2017. But Mr Ps daughter brought it to us where an ombudsman 
decided this wasnt the case and that we could look into the complaint. So one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He thought the switch to another pension in May 2010 
was reasonable but didnt think the subsequent recommendation to switch into the SIPP was 
suitable. He said the investment strategy of Mr Ps SIPP was around 90% invested in UCIS 
 which he thought was too high a risk for him and not suitable for his circumstances of 
being around five years from retirement and probably requiring easily accessible 
investments. 
He said Portal should compare the current value of the late Mr Ps SIPP with a notional 
value of his previous pension  if hed remained invested in the same funds. But the 
investigator set out an alternative method using a benchmark if it wasnt possible to obtain 
the notional value. He also said that Portal should pay the equivalent of five years worth of 
SIPP fees if the investments were illiquid. 
Portal disagreed with the redress methodology. It said that as the late Mr Ps ATR was 
assessed as balanced, then an element of fixed rate returns should be included within the 
comparison benchmark. But the investigator felt that the benchmark hed chosen was 
appropriate for someone who could accommodate that level of risk. He thought that, as the 
late Mr P hadnt been a cautious investor, then the more cautious benchmark suggested by 
Portal wasnt appropriate. 
Portal didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its 
been passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ive looked at Mr Ps situation in 2010 and started by considering the advice he was given in 
May 2010 to transfer his existing PPPs into a pension release plan.
The first transfer
The fact find that was completed by Portal at the time of the first recommendation 
suggested that Mr P needed to pay off his credit cards and an overdraft (totalling over 
£9,000) as well as providing an emergency fund. Hed already switched his mortgage to an 
interest only basis to reduce his outgoings and wanted to switch back to a capital and 
interest arrangement when his outstanding liabilities were paid off.
 
During its advice process, Portal, having identified that some of the PPPs contained 
Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GARs), explained that transferring would mean the loss of the 
GARs and that Mr P wouldnt have any further tax free cash entitlement. The plan it 
recommended had an initial charge of 5% of the residual fund with a 1% ongoing advisor 
charge. 
So, on the face of it while I would normally question whether it was appropriate for Portal to 
transfer the PPPs and incur the loss of valuable guarantees, and I would expect to see 
compelling reasons for such a transfer to be recommended  in this case I think there were 
compelling reasons. 
Looking at Mr Ps circumstances at the time, he was around five years from retirement and 
had some significant liabilities which were affecting his ability to meet his overall expenditure 
commitments  to such an extent that hed had to switch his mortgage to an interest only 
arrangement. It seemed there was little prospect of repaying his liabilities from normal 
income and there was little evidence that he held any savings.
So, I can understand that it would have been important to him to pay off his debts before 
rearranging his affairs so that he could pay off his mortgage before retirement. In the 
circumstances I can understand why he would have considered the opportunity to use a tax 
free sum  and still retain some additional pension income in retirement  as a reasonable 
solution to his problem. I think he would have accepted the loss of the GARs as worth 
sacrificing in the circumstances and when taken overall, I dont think Portals 
recommendation here was unsuitable. 
But around five months later Portal recommended that Mr P transferred his pension again, 
this time into a SIPP  so Ive looked carefully at the circumstances around that transfer.    
The second transfer
One of the advantages Portal noted for the first transfer was that once your investments are 
within a fund, it is easy to move between funds available through (the provider).
And one reason for transferring was given as to have access to a much wider range of 
funds and fund management companies allowing you to benefit from the diverse range of 
styles and specialities available.
So Ive looked carefully at the reasons Portal gave for recommending another transfer, 
bearing in mind the reasons of flexibility and access to a wider range of funds it said Mr P 
would benefit from following the first transfer.
Portal recorded Mr Ps objectives for the second transfer as being to:
Maximise your pension at retirement within your risk profile and financial situation.
Ensure that you have a good awareness of the investment opportunities available to 
you.
Have access to a system which will monitor the performance of your investments.
Be kept informed of the performance of your portfolio.  
Ive considered what Portal said here, but I dont agree that they were sufficiently compelling 
reasons to justify a transfer just five months later. Mr P already had wider investment 
opportunities as one of the benefits from his first transfer and Portal was charging him an 
ongoing 1% fee which, I assume would have entitled him to have his investments monitored 
for suitability and performance, without the need to transfer to a new plan. 
And theres no evidence to show that Mr P had previously self managed his PPPs, therefore 
with around five years to retirement Im not persuaded he would have needed that facility 
available to him. I dont think Mr P necessarily required the ability to manage his own 
investments and monitor them, I think he would have expected that service to be included as 
part of paying for Portal to be his adviser. So the only remaining reason for transferring that I need to consider as being compelling is 
maximising his pension at retirement. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr P was 
provided with a reasonable comparison which might have shown him whether the SIPP 
would provide a greater return at retirement. So, without being put in an informed position to 
make such a decision, I dont see how Mr P could have formed the view that he might be 
better off at retirement by investing into the SIPP.
But there are other reasons for concluding that the advice wasnt suitable.
Portal agreed that overall this strategy will cost you more than your existing arrangement 
but will offer guarantees which are not available to you at present. It didnt charge an initial 
fee but continued the ongoing adviser fee of 1% of the fund. I havent been provided with the 
individual fund and SIPP charges involved here, but I assume Portals conclusion that the 
new strategy would be more expensive to be accurate. So, in order to be better off in 
retirement, the performance of SIPP needed to be much greater in order to offset the effect 
of the higher charges. 
As Ive already said no analysis was provided which could have shown the potential returns 
from the various plans  but Portal recommended that Mr P invested in three separate UCIS. 
These were pooled investments or funds which could invest in a wide variety of assets. In 
this case the assets were as varied as a fund which invested in a hotel development in the 
UK, a portfolio incorporated in the Cayman Islands which loaned money against assessed 
financial claims, and a fund which invested into off plan villas and hotel rooms. These 
investments were highly speculative and highly geared and were restricted to being 
promoted to sophisticated and high net worth, non-retail consumers.
In my view Mr P couldnt be considered as either sophisticated or high net worth, but in any 
case, I havent seen any evidence that Portal issued the necessary certificates, signed by 
Mr P, to show that he satisfied these definitions. So I dont think these investments were 
recommended lawfully to Mr P. 
But I have also to consider the suitability of the recommendation, as Ive already explained 
that Portal didnt demonstrate whether Mr P would have been better off at retirement by 
transferring, nor did it put him in a position to be able to make an informed choice of whether 
to accept the recommendation. 
Its not in dispute that the late Mr P was defined as being no higher than a balanced or 
medium risk rated investor. In fact, Portal has subsequently suggested that the redress 
formula we put forward to calculate whether the late Mr P suffered any financial loss, should 
include an element of fixed rate instruments to reflect a more cautious ATR.
However, the investments that were recommended were, as I said, UCIS  which were 
much higher risk, speculative investments. I dont think Mr P had the financial experience or 
the appetite for such highly risk rated investments. His previous investment experience had 
been primarily with-profits funds and his investment following the first transfer was into a 
balanced portfolio. 
 
Theres no evidence to support the recommendation that Mr P should have invested in such 
high risk funds and I dont think he would gone ahead with the recommendation if hed been 
fully aware of the risks involved. 
I dont think Mr P had either the appetite for such speculative risk or had the capacity to deal 
with the potential losses that might occur with such high risk investments. And, with a fund of 
that size and a need to access the fund for income in his retirement  which was only around five years away, I think Mr P would have required his investments to be accessible  which 
ultimately, they werent.  
So based on the evidence Ive been provided with, I dont think the advice for the late Mr P 
to switch his pension release plan to a SIPP and invest into UCIS just five months after he 
first took the plan out, was suitable. I dont think the UCIS were in line with the late Mr Ps 
ATR and I dont think he was made fully aware of the risks involved, particularly the 
possibility of the funds becoming illiquid and losing their entire value.
I havent seen enough compelling reasons to show the transfer was in the late Mr Ps best 
interests and I think if hed been fully informed of the risks involved, and provided with a 
comparison of the likely benefits at retirement, he would have chosen not to transfer. 
 
Fair compensation
My aim is that the late Mr Ps pension should be put as closely as possible into the position it 
would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that the late Mr P would have continued to remain invested in the pension 
release plan he took out in May 2010. So I think what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given his circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Portal do?
Portal should obtain the notional value of the pension release plan, based as close 
to the date of my decision as possible, on the assumption that it had been in the 
same funds prior to the pension transfer in October 2010. It should compare that 
notional value with the value of the current SIPP on the same date. If the notional 
value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable. If 
the actual value is greater than the notional value, no compensation is payable.
Portal should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into the SIPP to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into the pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to the late Mr Ps estate after making a notional reduction to allow for 
any income tax that would have been paid following Mr Ps death.
The above redress formula should be used as far as possible and is the preferred method of 
reflecting what I think the late Mr P would have done if hed been given suitable advice. And 
weve approached the provider of the late Mr Ps previous plan to get the notional value on 
his behalf. 
But if it isnt possible to obtain the required notional value then Portal should follow the 
alternative formula Ive set out below: 
Compare the performance of the late Mr Ps SIPP with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.Portal should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portal should pay into the SIPP to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Portal is unable to pay the total amount into the plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to the late Mr Ps estate. The compensation should be reduced to notionally 
allow or any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell the estate of Mr P how much has been taken off. Portal should issue a 
tax deduction certificate if one is requested, so that any tax can be reclaimed from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of the 
transferdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portal should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount 
should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Portal is unable to purchase the investment, the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. Portal may require an undertaking that the beneficiaries of the 
estate pay Portal any amount they may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. 
Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portal totals all those payments and deducts that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
The late Mr P wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given the late Mr P's circumstances and risk attitude.
Ongoing SIPP fees
If, in the event that any of the investments in the SIPP are illiquid, it is fair that Portal pay the 
estate of Mr P an upfront sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using 
the previous years fees), which gives a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the 
SIPP to be closed. There are a number of ways they may want to achieve that, but this will 
give some confidence to the beneficiaries that they will not be subject to further fees. 
Awarding a lump sum for an amount equivalent to five years worth is a fair balance. It is 
possible that any residual illiquid holdings in the SIPP could be removed from the SIPP in 
fewer than five years. However, overall five years worth of fees is a fair way to resolve the 
issue now. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portal Financial Services LLP should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Portal Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to the estate of Mr P in 
a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman