DRN-1304295
The complaint
Ms W complains that she was mis-sold an income protection policy by an adviser from 
HSBC UK Bank Plc in 2012. 
What happened
Ms W is represented by her independent financial adviser, Mr M, in pursuing the complaint. 
Ms W attended a HSBC branch alongside her partner to remortgage their property and the 
adviser had reviewed their protection requirements. It was determined that Ms Ws current 
income protection policy did not adequately meet her needs. The adviser recommended that 
Ms W take out a policy which would pay out once her sickness provisions end. She also 
made recommendations for life and critical illness insurance cover. 
Ms W agreed to some of the proposals, including the recommendation for income protection. 
She then cancelled her existing income protection policy. The new HSBC IncomeChoice 
policy began on 27 June 2012. It offered Ms W a monthly benefit of £364 for a monthly 
premium of £26.68 to May 2028.    
Ms W first complained to HSBC on 8 April 2019 about the sale of the IncomeChoice policy. 
She said since meeting with Mr M it had been brought to her attention that she was mis-
advised in 2012. At the time of the advice (and to date) she was employed by the NHS with 
26 weeks full sick pay and 26 weeks half pay thereafter. Ms W said she therefore should 
have been sold a policy which had a confirmed deferred period of 52 weeks.  
She also said that the adviser should have told her that her previous policy wasnt suitable 
either, and that this policy was being sold as a top-up. To resolve her complaint, Ms W said 
the policy premiums ought to be returned to her in full.  
HSBC rejected the complaint. In a final response to Ms W dated 12 June 2019, it said that it 
disagreed the policy had been mis-sold. It said it couldnt comment on the suitability of the 
policy Ms W already held with another provider. It said once the IncomeChoice policy began 
at 52 weeks, this combined with the existing policy provided Ms W with the maximum 50% 
monthly benefit allowed. The advisers letter confirmed she had not recommended replacing 
the existing policy as it would be more expensive to do so; therefore, it was more appropriate 
to compliment Ms Ws existing cover. 
HSBC also said it was unable to agree that the policy wasnt properly explained to Ms W. It 
noted she had signed a declaration to confirm she had read the policy information. 
Ms W brought her complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed the complaint, but he 
did not think it should succeed. He said that the evidence showed the HSBC adviser hadnt 
told Ms W to cancel her existing policy. To the contrary, the adviser had written to Ms W to 
explain how the advice was to top up Ms Ws existing income protection provisions to the 
maximum 50% benefit. He did not believe the policy was unsuitable, or that it was mis-sold. 
Mr M said Ms W wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. He said that there 
was no proof the letter had been sent to Ms W at the time. And Ms Ws actions with the other 
insurer would demonstrate that she was told something different to what was recorded.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the outcome our investigator has reached. I wont be asking HSBC to refund the 
premiums Ms W paid for the IncomeChoice policy.  
At the time of the advice, Ms W gave the adviser information about her existing income 
protection policy which was recorded in a fact find document. The existing policy provided 
her with benefit after 26 weeks, of £333 per month (just under a quarter of her gross monthly 
salary of £1,393 per month). 
HSBCs adviser did not sell the existing policy to Ms W. Instead, she asked for information 
about it. She went on in her financial planning report dated 21 June 2012 to note that:
I am recommending an IncomeChoice policy for [Ms W] until age 65 protecting £364 
per month. I have recommended protection until age 65 as this is the maximum 
period available. If you chose to continue to work beyond this period please 
understand that you will not have any cover in place. This is a top up of your existing 
income protection with [other provider].
Though Mr M says Ms W didnt receive a further letter about the policy, she did receive the 
financial planning report and as HSBC has confirmed, Ms W signed documentation at the 
time noting she understood the contents. I believe the adviser has clearly explained that the 
IncomeChoice proposal was intended to compliment Ms Ws existing provisions, and 
therefore she did take account of the fact Ms W already had some cover in place.  
The adviser went on to further clarify her actions in the letter of 25 June 2012 to Ms W, 
which said:
With regards to [Ms Ws] income protection recommendation, I would like to clarify 
that I was topping up your existing [named] policy to the maximum of 50% of your 
salary. Although your existing policy commences at 26 weeks, the HSBC policy will 
kick in at 52 weeks once your sick pay ceases. This means you should then receive 
the £364 from HSBC and £333 from your existing provider I can confirm that I did not 
recommend replacing your Scottish Equitable policy as it was more expensive to do 
so therefore it was more appropriate to compliment your existing cover. 
I note Ms W says she never received this letter. And Mr M feels her actions in cancelling the 
existing policy on 26 June 2012 demonstrated that she couldnt have received it. However, it 
was sent to the right address and Im mindful that the vast majority of properly addressed 
postal correspondence is correctly received. Nonetheless, this further explanation supports 
the previous advice in the financial planning report. It was set out to Ms W before she 
cancelled her other policy that the recommendation was designed to top up her cover, not 
replace it.  
There isnt a recording of the meeting and I therefore only have evidence of the written 
report, Ms Ws subsequent actions and the accounts of the parties now as to what the 
adviser proposed. Taking everything on balance, Im not persuaded that the adviser told Ms 
W to cancel her existing cover. Had she likely done so, the recommendation would not have 
taken into account Ms Ws existing provisions. The adviser could have proposed more cover at a greater premium in that instance, but she did not do so. Instead, she gave her advice as 
an add-on to the partial cover that Ms W already had in place. 
I therefore do not believe that the adviser acted unfairly or unreasonably by proposing 
additional income protection cover to Ms W, which would have begun at 52 weeks. I note Mr 
M and Ms W have both said that HSBCs policy did not have this period specifically defined 
as 52 weeks, because HSBCs wording was slightly different.
Nonetheless, the proposal had the same effect because of the employee benefits Ms W 
held. The policy terms gave a deferred period which stated the payment would begin for an 
income protection claim after Ms Ws entitlement to company sick pay had been exhausted 
which in Ms Ws case would be at 52 weeks. The policy confirmed the deferred period as 
the later of 13 weeks or when the Life Insured's employer's sick pay ends (or is reduced to 
Statutory Sick Pay). The recommendation therefore met Ms Ws stated needs by starting at 
52 weeks. 
I realise that one of the other points of dissatisfaction Ms W has is that the existing provision 
may have left her over insured (depending on the level of the maximum benefit payment). 
However, the adviser was making recommendations about HSBCs IncomeChoice policy, 
which had a maximum benefit of 50%. It was not known what the maximum benefit for the 
other policy was for the period of 26 to 52 weeks, but this recommendation did not interfere 
with that. The advice to begin cover with a £364 monthly benefit after a deferred period of 52 
weeks brought Ms W to the IncomeChoice 50% maximum benefit, and not beyond it. 
Therefore, the advice given by HSBC about the cover it could offer did not leave Ms W over-
insured if she chose to accept it. 
My final decision
Im unable to uphold this complaint or make any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman