DRN-4350678
The complaint
Mr E is complaining about Startline Motor Finance Limiteds decision to lend to him  he 
says the loan was unaffordable. His complaint was brought to our service by a 
representative but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with him.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr E took out a hire purchase agreement with Startline, via a broker, to 
finance the purchase of a car. He borrowed £22,480 over a 60-month term, with monthly 
repayments of £595.17. Mr E first missed a payment in July 2022 and has struggled to 
maintain payments since.
In August 2022 Mr E complained to Startline, saying they shouldnt have lent to him - but 
Startline didnt uphold his complaint. They said they support applicants who have a lower 
credit rating and said theyd done a proper assessment of affordability before deciding to 
lend to Mr E. 
Startline said their systems confirmed Mr Es net monthly income of £3,040 using one of the 
credit reference agency (CRA) affordability tools. They said the application data showed 
Mr E was a married tenant and the CRA data theyd looked at showed he had an acceptable 
payment history with all active accounts being well paid. That included five credit cards, a 
mail order account, a mobile phone bill and an existing hire purchase agreement. This hire 
purchase agreement had monthly instalments of around £118 and was required to be settled 
as a condition of the proposed agreement. 
So, they said, theyd completed a reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, identifying no 
material risk of affordability issues. 
Mr E wasnt happy with Startlines response so he brought his complaint to our service. He 
said Startline had been irresponsible in providing him with finance and had failed to conduct 
thorough, appropriate and reasonable checks. 
Our investigator looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint  she said she thought 
Startline hadnt carried out proportionate checks but that the agreement was likely affordable 
for Mr E so Startline hadnt made an unfair lending decision. 
Startline accepted our investigators view overall but commented that they felt they had done 
proportionate checks. Mr E wasnt happy. He said our investigators estimate of his 
disposable income wasnt right. Mr E asked for an ombudsmans decision  and the 
complaints come to me. I issued a provisional decision on 17 August 2023 which said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as 
CONC what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In 
summary, a firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the 
agreement without having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other 
obligations, and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the 
customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Startline carry out proportionate checks?
Startlines checks comprised:
a review of Mr Es credit file including using this to estimate his monthly credit 
commitments;
verification of his income using a CRA affordability tool; and
estimating Mr Es cost of living using the Office of National Statistics (ONS) data for a 
married tenant and using this to estimate his disposable income.
CONC allows businesses to use statistical data and tools like the CRA affordability tool 
when carrying out affordability assessments. Whether or not this is proportionate depends 
on the circumstances of the lending and any other information a business is aware of at 
the time.
Mr E was looking to borrow a significant amount, with payments of nearly £600 a month 
for five years. So it was a significant financial commitment. Having said that, Startline had 
verified his net income at around £3,000 per month, so at first glance it would be 
reasonable to expect the agreement to be affordable. 
Ive thought about what information Startline found in the checks they carried out and 
whether this should have prompted them to do more.
Ive looked at Startlines copy of Mr Es credit file. It shows nine open accounts - six credit 
cards, one hire purchase agreement, one mail order account and a telecoms account. 
Across these open accounts there were no missed payments and no balances over limit. 
The total of Mr Es balances was about 85% of the total of his credit limits. So its fair to 
say Mr E was managing his active credit well. 
In addition, the credit file showed a number of settled accounts. Across these, there were 
a couple of missed payments back in 2017, but no other indicators of any concern. 
The credit file also showed that as well as his active hire purchase agreement, Mr E had 
been paying £659 monthly against a different hire purchase agreement from 
September 2020 to December 2021. Taking everything together, the credit file suggested 
Mr E was managing his credit well and was able to manage a monthly hire purchase 
payment significantly greater than that being offered by Startline.
Startline also used the credit file to calculate Mr Es monthly credit commitments at £207 
(excluding the existing hire purchase agreement which was to be settled). The ONS data 
suggested his cost of living expenditure would be around £1,749. Startline added to this 
the credit commitments figure of £207 and the proposed monthly hire purchase 
repayment of £595 and concluded Mr Es total expenditure would be £2,551. Theyd 
verified Mr Es income at £3,040 so they were comfortable the repayments would be 
affordable for him.Im inclined to say Startlines checks were proportionate. Although the loan and 
repayments were significant, Mr E had a clean and active credit file, had previously (and 
recently) kept up to date on a more expensive hire purchase agreement, and his income 
was significantly higher than his expenditure according to statistical data.
Did Startline make a fair lending decision?
Having concluded that Startline did proportionate checks, I have to think about whether 
they made a fair lending decision.
Ive reviewed Startlines calculations and I can see that they estimated Mr Es monthly 
credit commitments at 3% of the total of his total credit card balances. Im inclined to say 
Startline should have used a higher figure for Mr Es revolving credit repayments  at 
around 3% this doesnt appear to allow for Mr E repaying these amounts within a 
reasonable time period as required by CONC 5.2A.12R. I think a figure of around 5% 
would have been more appropriate. This would have increased Mr Es total expenditure 
to around £2,690, against income of £3,040. 
This still allows Mr E disposable income of £350 per month  which is enough to say Mr E 
would have been able to meet repayments without a significant adverse impact on his 
financial situation. So Im inclined to say Startline did make a fair lending decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision so my final decision is unchanged from 
those findings.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint about Startline Motor Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman