DRN-3709500
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as 
Chase when switching his bank account to them from another provider. 
What happened
Mr S held a current account with another banking provider. In early 2022 he chose to switch 
his account across to Chase and as part of the switching service, Chase agreed to help 
transfer his direct debits over from his existing current account. However, many of the direct 
debits failed to transfer across correctly and as a result, Mr S said he experienced undue 
stress, and the matter impacted his and a family members health. So, he complained. 
Chase considered Mr Ss complaint and apologised for the shortcomings in the service they 
had provided. They accepted they were at fault for the switch not going through properly. 
They explained that Mr S should contact the merchants, and they gave him a number of 
instructions to carry out. They also said if Mr S incurred any fees or charges as a result of 
missing payments, they would work with him to put things right. But Mr S remained unhappy, 
and referred his complaint to our service. 
An investigator considered the matter and felt Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. And, he 
recommended Chase pay Mr S £300 compensation for the distress they had caused. Chase 
accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr S didnt. He said the compensation offer 
didnt reflect the distress the matter had caused him, or the impact itd had on his health. Nor 
did it take into account the difficulty he faced in carrying out the actions needed to remedy 
the issue, based on his personal circumstances. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has explained that he has since transferred the relevant direct debits himself, albeit, I 
understand this took a considerable amount of time, and involved him having to make 
manual payments to multiple creditors. However, as the direct debits are now in place, my 
decision will focus on the impact of Mr S having to arrange this himself, and the overall 
distress he experienced. 
The fact that Mr S was put to some inconvenience is not in dispute. Chase already agree 
that they were at fault in this matter. And for the avoidance of doubt, Im satisfied that the 
inconvenience Mr S experienced was as a result of errors on Chases part. 
But, just because a customer experiences inconvenience, this doesnt always mean that 
compensation is due. And in some instances, we might deem fixing the issue along with an 
apology sufficient, dependant on the circumstances. 
In this case however, it does seem Mr S was put to a considerable amount of distress. 
Without going into too much detail, Mr S has explained the impact this has had on his mental 
and physical health, as well as impacting those around him. Albeit my decision will only 
focus on the impact this has had on Mr S. Hes also explained the difficulty hes experienced 
in trying to put things right, not just with Chase, but with the merchants he was due to pay. 
I appreciate Mr S has spent many hours on the phone trying to deal with the matter, and hes 
provided specific examples with details of some of the calls, and how long they have taken. 
Hes also explained that one of his credit card providers has since cancelled his card as a 
result of the issues he experienced. And hes said that his mobile phone was disconnected 
at one point, due to issues relating to the account switch. I can only imagine the stress this 
must have put Mr S under, and the difficulty he must have experienced in trying to get this 
resolved. And Im satisfied that as a result, compensation is due.  
While I accept that Mr S has been put to considerable inconvenience and stress, its 
important to note that any awards we make for compensation are not designed to be 
punitive. We are not a regulator, and we cannot punish a business for its shortcomings. Our 
approach, in the first instance, is to try and resolve the underlying issue, and then to 
consider what we feel might be fair compensation, taking into account the impact of any 
shortcomings on the customer personally. 
I accept, as Ive said above that this was particularly distressing for Mr S. And I cant put 
myself in his shoes, to understand the impact this must have had on him. But I have 
considered all of the points hes raised, along with the supporting evidence hes provided to 
demonstrate some of that impact. Ive also considered all of the evidence provided by the 
business. 
Having done so, and while I accept that my findings will likely come as a disappointment to 
Mr S, I am satisfied that a payment of £300 is a fair sum of compensation. And while I 
appreciate the stress hes been through, I feel that the compensation offered by Chase fairly 
addresses the distress this matter caused. So, while I appreciate this is less than Mr S was 
hoping for, for the above reasons, I wont be instructing Chase to pay anything more than its 
agreed to.  
Ive not been presented with anything to suggest Mr Ss incurred any charges. But in any 
event, Chase have said theyll work with him if he does  I think thats reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct J.P. Morgan Europe Limited trading as Chase 
to pay Mr S £300 in compensation, for the distress this matter has caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman