DRN-1601313
The complaint
Miss B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss B took out a credit card in December 1997. She was sold the PPI at the same time in 
connection with this card.
The PPI cost 72p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. It wouldve paid 10% of the 
monthly outstanding balance for up to 12 months if Miss B was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. Miss B didnt agree with 
our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint.
First of all Ive considered whether Miss B would have been eligible for the policy. Based on 
her age and circumstances at the time of the sale, Im satisfied Miss B was eligible.
HSBC had to make it clear to Miss B that the policy was optional and needed her consent 
before it could be applied to the account. Miss B says she cant recall a conversation about 
the credit or PPI.
HSBC no longer have a copy of the actual application form completed by Miss B from the 
time of the sale. However, this is understandable given the length of time since the sale. 
Equally understandably, Miss B cant now recall the sales process. So in these 
circumstances I am unable to conclude that its more likely that HSBC didnt present the 
policy as optional or that Miss B didnt choose to take it out.
HSBC cant say how the policy was sold so in fairness to Miss B they have said they will 
treat this as an advised sale. This holds them to a higher bar as compared to a non 
advised sale and means that they would have had to take reasonable steps to ensure that 
the PPI was suitable for Miss B. I dont know if HSBC did all they should have done to check 
that the PPI was suitable for Miss B but I think the PPI was suitable for Miss B anyway. I say 
this because:
- Miss B has told us she wasnt entitled to sick pay so she wouldnt have had any 
regular income to make the repayments towards the credit card. I appreciate she 
says she could have asked a family member to help but this help wouldnt have been 
guaranteed if/when the need arose. 
- Miss B didnt appear to have been affected by the exclusions and restrictions in the 
policy which would have made it difficult for her to make a successful claim under the 
policy.
- I havent seen any evidence to suggest it was unaffordable to Miss B at the time of 
the sale.
- Miss B could have cancelled the PPI at any time without losing out financially if she 
no longer wanted or needed it.
As well as checking the PPI was suitable for Miss B, HSBC also had to give her clear 
information so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not to take PPI. 
Its possible the information HSBC gave Miss B wasnt as clear as it should have been. But 
this in itself doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put her off taking it out.
I dont think better information would have put her off taking PPI. I say this for the same 
reasons that I think the PPI was suitable for Miss B.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think HSBC mis-sold Miss B this PPI 
policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman