DRN-4319855
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) following an application he 
made for a bank account.
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in great detail here.
 
But broadly summarised, Mr C applied for a personal current account using HSBCs online 
banking service. Unfortunately the information Mr C provided differed to the information held 
on the credit reference databases HSBC used when checking the application. 
This meant the automated application was flagged for further checking. HSBCs fraud team 
reviewed the application. And as a result, it had concerns that Mr C may himself be the 
victim of impersonation fraud. The application was declined, and HSBC applied a Cifas 
protective marker. This Cifas marker advised other financial institutions that Mr C may be the 
victim of impersonation fraud. HSBC also loaded another marker to Cifas which contained 
information regarding the details of the application. This information is then available for 
other financial institutions to use when assessing any applications. To prevent accounts 
being opened fraudulently.
HSBC wrote to Mr C to advise that the application was unsuccessful, and it wasnt able to 
offer him any banking facilities. 
Mr C took the letter into branch and says he was told that it was due to concerns of fraud. 
Mr C says he advised that it was not a fraudulent application because he had made it 
himself.
Mr C says that around a week later he received a further letter, which advised that HSBCs 
investigation was complete, and the application had been cancelled and it had notified Cifas 
that a fraudster had misused his name and address (meaning a protective marker was 
loaded to prevent Mr C from possibly being the victim of impersonation fraud). The letter also 
stated that if Mr C did not wish for the Cifas file to be updated with details of this 
impersonation, to let HSBC know and it would arrange for the information to be removed.
Mr C advised that both in branch and over the telephone, HSBC provided misleading 
information around getting the marker removed, which was contrary to what it had stated in 
its letter to him. Mr C had particular concerns regarding a conversation he had with an 
adviser from HSBC on 19 May 2023 which led to Mr C formally complaining about the 
matter.  
Mr C wanted it known that he didnt cancel the application and he was unhappy that he had 
to attend branch (requiring a taxi). Mr C was also unhappy with the service he received when 
he called in and the time it took to log his complaint.
On 23 May 2023, HSBC called Mr C and spoke with him about his concerns. It 
acknowledged that it didnt provide the best service in branch initially and then subsequently 
on the telephone. It advised that it had provided feedback to both parties: the Branch 
Manager and the telephone agents manager. HSBC paid £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. HSBC followed up confirmation of this in writing to Mr C. The Cifas 
markers were removed on 16 June 2023.
Unhappy, Mr C referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators looked into the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. 
In short, they felt HSBC didnt do anything wrong in placing a protective marker given the 
concerns it had that Mr C might be the victim of impersonation fraud. They explained the 
purpose behind the marker  which is designed to protect customers from impersonation 
fraud and further explained that it alerts businesses so that they can carry out additional 
checks to ensure they are dealing with the legitimate party. The Investigator advised that the 
marker involves recording the information used within the application and there was the 
potential for this to have caused some issues for Mr C. Mr C had said he was declined a 
bank account due to the marker being in place. However, as he hadnt provided any 
evidence of this our Investigator couldnt say that any further compensation for the recording 
of the marker was required.
The Investigator agreed that Mr C had received poor service from HSBC but felt the £150 
that had already been paid was fair. 
Mr C has asked for the matter to be reviewed by an Ombudsman as the final stage in our 
services process. So, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr C feels very strongly about the actions of HSBC and is clearly frustrated about the 
process he went through and understandably so. But in having reviewed everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint. I think HSBCs offer of compensation to reflect the service Mr C 
subsequently received in trying to resolve the issue around the marker, is fair. Ill explain 
why. 
Here, the starting point was the incorrect information Mr C accidently used within his 
application. This correctly flagged for further checking. Banks and financial businesses have 
certain obligations to prevent accounts being used for fraudulent purposes and to protect 
consumers from impersonation fraud. So here, when it received Mr Cs application and the 
information differed to that held on the credit reference database  it led to them having a 
concern that Mr C himself may be the victim of impersonation fraud (that is someone 
pretending to be Mr C in order to open an account). 
So I dont find HSBC acted unfairly in declining the application and loading the protective 
marker based on the information it received and the concerns it had at the time. Its actions 
were a safeguarding measure to prevent Mr C from the possibility of financial harm.However, its clear things went wrong after this. Mr C attended branch and after receiving a 
subsequent letter advising him to contact HSBC to remove the marker, was provided with 
confusing information. Neither branch nor telephone agent seemingly had enough 
knowledge to be able to deal with this matter. While I appreciate fraud or Cifas markers can 
be slightly more nuanced as a subject or procedural matter  it shouldnt be for HSBC. And 
Mr C should have been put in contact with the right department or area that could provide 
the correct advice and assist him. So I can see why Mr C felt aggrieved that HSBCs letter 
advised for him to make contact to get the marker removed and then when he did, no one 
seemingly could help him.
That said, HSBC have acknowledged its poor service  and paid £150 which Mr C accepted. 
Im satisfied it fairly compensates Mr C for the misleading information it provided in its letter 
which indicated to Mr C that he had cancelled the application. And Im also satisfied this 
fairly takes into account the costs Mr C incurred in having to take a taxi to branch and the 
time Mr C spent in trying to resolve the issue subsequently. Im also pleased to see that 
HSBC fed back to both branch and telephone agent on the service Mr C received relating to 
this issue and the process around Cifas markers. 
Finally, I note the markers were removed on 16 June 2023. I note Mr C said that HSBC 
placing the marker had a further detrimental impact on him as he attempted to open another 
bank account, and this was declined due to the markers. 
With the protective marker, it is designed to safeguard Mr C so this shouldnt have had a 
detrimental impact on any further applications Mr C made. The marker would require other 
financial institutions to carry out some more checks to ensure they were dealing with Mr C 
and not an impersonator. So I cant fairly say that the loading of the protective marker has 
had any further impact on him. 
I appreciate that HSBC uploaded the details of the application to Cifas. This is done to 
enable other financial institutions to know the details being used to prevent further 
impersonation fraud. To my mind, this seemed to be unessecarry given Mr C was attempting 
to provide the correct details. So there was a possibility that this could have caused 
difficulties for Mr C in any subsequent application he made while this marker was in place. 
However I am mindful that the marker was removed on 16 June 2023 and Mr C hasnt 
provided any evidence to show a further application was declined by another financial 
institution. So while it could have had an impact it hasnt been evidenced that this is the case 
 so I dont award any further compensation. 
Overall, while this was a frustrating process for Mr C to go through, I find HSBCs 
compensation offer of £150 to be a fair way to resolve the matter. And it doesnt need to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Matthew Horner
Ombudsman