DRN-2381552
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc didnt make them aware of the deadline 
to arrange a new interest rate product. As a result they were too late to switch to a new 
product and had to pay the more expensive standard variable rate (SVR) for one month.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S have a mortgage with Bank of Ireland. The fixed rate on one part of their 
mortgage was due to end on 30 November 2019. Mr and Mrs S say they contacted Bank of 
Ireland in September 2019 to discuss their options and were told once they agreed to switch 
to a new interest rate it would happen straight away.
Following a letter dated 5 November, Mr S spoke to Bank of Ireland on 13 November. He 
was told he must speak to a mortgage adviser and an appointment was arranged. But when 
he spoke to the adviser, he was told that the cut-off date for switching to a new product was 
19 November  so he was too late and would have to pay SVR for one month.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said that Bank of Ireland didnt 
tell Mr and Mrs S about the cut-off point in the 5 November letter and it ought to have told 
them about it during the phone calls. The investigator said that Bank of Ireland should pay 
Mr and Mrs S the difference between the amount they paid on the SVR and the amount they 
would have paid on the new interest rate product, with interest at 8% simple and £50 for any 
distress and inconvenience this matte has caused.
Mr and Mrs S accepted what the investigator said. Bank of Ireland did not. It made a number 
of points, including:
During the phone calls in September Mr S told Bank of Ireland he was comparing 
products and options and that he intended to remortgage with another lender. So it 
would not have been appropriate to tell him about the cut-off date at that point.
There was plenty of time from the initial contact for Mr and Mrs S to submit a new 
application.
On 13 November Mr S discussed a new interest rate product again and arranged an 
advice appointment. But despite four attempts to contact him, the bank was unable to 
speak with him. No further contact was received until 29 November. Had the 
appointment on 13 November gone ahead, it is likely the new product would have been 
in place for 1 December. The bank cant be held responsible for the appointment not 
taking place as agreed.
The cut-off date of the 19th of the month is set out on the banks website. It is treating Mr 
and Mrs S the same way as all of its customers. 
The purpose of the 5 November letter was not to help Mr and Mrs S make an informed 
decision about their options. Rather it was to inform them of their new monthly payment 
as required by the direct debit guarantee.
The investigator had not given due consideration to the administration needed to apply a 
new interest rate product to a mortgage and amending a direct debit, which takes up to 
ten working days. There is also no guarantee that an application for a new product will 
complete as customers are permitted to withdraw from them. 
Following receipt of some new information from Bank of Ireland, including recordings of its 
relevant phone conversations with Mr S, I said that I intended to uphold the complaint for 
slightly different reasons to the investigator and to increase the compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience to £150. I invited both sides to comment if they wished.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand and agree with Bank of Ireland that it is entited to have a cut-off date for 
product switches, the reasons for the cut-off and that it was treating Mr and Mrs S the same 
as other customers. I also agree that there isnt any requirement to contain a warning in the 
letter it sent. But it doesnt necessarily follow that has resulted in a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the individual circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Ireland had a duty to communicate in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
The information about the cut-off date was important. Presumably the bank accepts that as it 
displays that information prominently on its website. But that would only be seen by 
customers who use the website. There will be others who rely on communication in writing 
and by phone. 
After listening to the phone calls that Mr S had with Bank of Ireland, he told it on a number of 
occasions that he was having trouble accessing his online account. So I dont see how it is 
fair to say that Bank of Ireland could rely on the information on its website. During the phone 
call on 12 September 2019 it told him he could proceed using the phone route  and that it 
could usually arrange a same day appointment. 
During a phone call with Bank of Ireland on 13 November 2019, Mr S said what I dont want 
to happen is for the fixed period to end on 30 November and have to pay another £450 a 
month or so. If I can get it done within the next couple of weeks thats fine. I am satisfied 
that Mr S told Bank of Ireland about the importance of switching to a new rate before the end 
of the existing fixed rate and that his understanding was that he could do so within the next 
couple of weeks. Bank of Ireland did not tell Mr S about the cut-off date. It merely agreed 
that would be fine. I consider it would have been reasonable for Bank of Ireland to set out 
the correct position. If it had done so, I see no reason why Mr S would not have switched 
interest rate before 19 November.
Further, during the phone call on 13 November Mr S then asks for an appointment on 20 
November. Bank of Ireland doesnt mention the cut-off. It said that the sooner we can get 
the paperwork in, it guarantees we can get you on that new rate before the first of next 
month. Mr S then agrees to an appointment that day. I consider this was another missed 
opportunity to set out the correct position in a clear and fair way. There was scope for 
misunderstandings in what was said.
While Bank of Ireland was unable to contact Mr S as agreed on 13 November, Mr S would 
have no reason to think this was a problem  Bank of Ireland had led him to believe that he 
had time to make a switch. At most, Mr S might have understood that there might be a point 
where the rate switch could not be guaranteed. The original mortgage offer from 2017 contains no information about the cut-off date. It 
merely says the previous interest rate will apply until 30 November 2019. Bank of Ireland 
says that the variation of mortgage offer sets out the deadline is the 19th of the month for a 
rate switch. But that offer wasnt issued until after 19 November, so I am struggling to see 
the relevance of this.
In the circumstances of this case, I consider that it would have been fair and reasonable for
Bank of Ireland to tell Mr S about the cut-off date during the phone calls. In particular on 13 
November 2019. I can also see the argument that it ought reasonably to have told Mr
S about the cut-off in the voicemail message(s) it left for him on 13 November, bearing in 
mind what Bank of Ireland knew (although Mr S said it used the wrong phone number). 
If the bank had given Mr S clear, fair and not misleading information  taking into account it 
was the expert here and what Mr S had told it and what it knew about his circumstances  I 
am satisfied he would have made arrangements to switch rates before 19 November. It 
follows the bank should pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between what they paid in 
December 2019 - and what they would have paid if they had made the switch before the cut-
off - with interest at 8% simple per year on the difference from the date of the
December 2019 payment to date of settlement.
I also consider that Bank of Ireland should pay Mr and Mrs S £150 for any distress and 
inconvenience it caused them. Mr and Mrs S acted reasonably in trying to explore their 
options in plenty of time. I consider the way Bank of Ireland dealt with them will have caused 
them some distress - in the surprise of finding out it was too late to avoid paying the SVR 
when they had clearly set out they had a strong preference not to switch to SVR, in having to 
pay the higher amount for a month and in losing trust that the bank will always give them 
clear and fair information to make informed decisions. In addition to that there has been 
some inconvenience in having to pursue this complaint to the extent they had  I think that 
was avoidable if Bank of Ireland had listened to the phone calls and understood its 
responsibilities.
Putting things right
If the bank had given Mr S clear, fair and not misleading information  taking into account it 
was the expert here and what Mr S had told it and what it knew about his circumstances  I 
am satisfied he would have made arrangements to switch rates before 19 November. It 
follows the bank should pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between what they paid in 
December 2019 - and what they would have paid if they had made the switch before the cut-
off - with interest at 8% simple per year on the difference from the date of the
December 2019 payment to date of settlement.
I also consider that Bank of Ireland should pay Mr and Mrs S £150 for any distress and 
inconvenience it caused them. Mr and Mrs S acted reasonably in trying to explore their 
options in plenty of time. I consider the way Bank of Ireland dealt with them will have caused 
them some distress- in the surprise of finding out it was too late to avoid paying the SVR 
when they had clearly set out they had a strong preference not to switch to SVR, in having to 
pay the higher amount for a month and in losing trust that the bank will always give them 
clear and fair information to make informed decisions. In addition, there has been some 
inconvenience in having to pursue this complaint to the extent Mr and Mrs S have  I think 
that was avoidable if Bank of Ireland had listened to the phone calls and understood its 
responsibilities.
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc should:Pay Mr and Mrs S the difference between the interest they paid in their December 2019 
monthly mortgage payment and what they would have paid had they switched to the new 
interest rate in time for it to be applied to the December payment.
Pay interest at 8% simple per year from the date of the December 2019 payment to date 
of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs S £150 for any distress and inconvenience they have suffered as a 
result of this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman