DRN-2364675
The complaint
Mr H complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has withdrawn the 
funding for his legal expenses insurance claim in relation to a boundary dispute with his 
neighbour. 
LV uses an intermediary (Arc Legal) to administer its legal expenses insurance. Any 
reference to LV within this decision should also be read as including the acts or omissions of 
such intermediaries.
 
What happened
Mr H holds a home insurance policy with LV, which includes cover for legal expenses. LV 
was initially made aware of the boundary dispute in 2016. Complaints have been made to LV 
previously so this decision will only focus on whats happened from around 2018 onwards.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all here. 
Instead, Ill give a summary and then focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
LV appointed one of its panel firms of solicitors to assess Mr Hs legal claim. It followed the 
advice given by the law firm in relation to whether it should continue to fund the claim. 
The boundary issue related to a strip of land. The law firm didnt think Mr Hs property value 
would be impacted (or significantly impacted) by the loss of the strip of land. But it did think 
that it would be impacted by an unresolved dispute.
LV had concerns about continuing to fund the claim as there seemed to be no signs of a 
resolution.  But funding continued, based on the advice of the law firm, in part because of the 
other sides insistence on legal proceedings and because it was deemed that a settlement 
was close on more than one occasion. But in September 2019, the law firm concluded that 
the claim was no longer proportionate. It said that a reasonable person of reasonable 
financial means wouldnt, without the benefit of legal expenses insurance, pursue the matter 
out of their own pocket. So cover was withdrawn on the basis that the claim was no longer 
proportionate.  
Also in September 2019, Mr H notified LV that the other party had started to erect a fence 
along the boundary that was in dispute. The law firm said there was a covenant against this 
but couldnt say if it would be enforceable. Mr H hoped to secure funding from LV for an 
injunction to prevent further work. He said he was willing to concede the land in dispute but 
wanted to have the boundary declared and registered with Land Registry. The law firm said 
an interim injunction would cost between £5,000 - £7,000 plus VAT and the boundary 
dispute could run between £60,000 - £75,000 with the losing party being liable for most of 
the winning partys costs. 
Having conceded on the disputed land, Mr H wanted the policy to provide funding for the 
following:
- The declaration of the boundary
- Retention of a stone circle adjacent to the boundary
- Registration of the boundary with Land Registry
- Establishment of the legality of the abovementioned covenant 
LV said these werent covered by the policy which, in relation to property, is intended to 
pursue or defend a claim. And it also said that the overall claim was no longer 
proportionate. LV responded to Mr Hs suggestion that it had mistakenly considered 
proportionality of the entire claim, rather than just in relation to the remaining points hed 
requested funding for. It referenced the policy terms which state that it will treat all events 
related by cause or time as one. Given this and the advice of the law firm, LV withdrew 
funding for the claim.
Mr H doesnt think LV has acted fairly. He said that proportionality was determined by the 
law firm and wasnt questioned by LV. And he believed he was entitled to £100,000 of legal 
support and doesnt think it was made clear in the documentation that this sum was to 
include all costs. He said hes spent a great deal of time and energy dealing with this claim.  
Our investigator considered this complaint. She felt that LV had acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy in relation to proportionality, noting that the law firm had stated 
the cost of pursuing the matter was deemed to be highly likely to exceed £100,000. She 
also agreed with LV that an application to Land Registry fell outside of what the insurance 
policy would cover. 
Mr H disagreed. He noted the policy listed various issues that would be taken into account to 
determine proportionality (the amount of money at stake; the value and complexity of the 
case; the geographical location of the policyholder and the other party to the action; the 
stance of the other party; whether a reasonable person without legal expenses insurance 
would pursue the matter and finance their own costs). He said he couldnt find anything 
stating that all of these issues would have to be satisfied to continue to pursue a claim. He 
also reiterated that it wasnt clear £100,000 was the total sum available. And he noted that 
he hadnt received a response from the law firm when he queried how the potential legal 
costs had been calculated. He feels it would be beneficial to LV to employ a law firm who 
would determine costs to be high so the claim could be declined. 
I got in touch with Mr H informally, as our rules allow, to try to resolve this complaint at an 
earlier stage by addressing the specific concerns hed raised in response to our investigator 
and letting him know how I was minded to proceed. I felt it was clear and logical for all the 
issues to be taken into consideration when determining whether the legal expenses are 
proportional to the potential benefit of pursuing the claim. In relation to the £100,000 cap, I 
referenced the policy terms which state:
Third party costs shall be covered if awarded against you and paid on the standard 
basis of assessment And for any claim or claims arising from one insured event, 
the most well pay will be £100,000.
I explained that I felt this made it clear that any costs arising from the matter would need to 
be covered by the £100,000, including the other sides costs. And, finally, I explained that LV 
 as an insurer  was entitled to rely on legal advice provided by a firm with relevant 
expertise, which is what it did here. While it didnt seek a second opinion, thered been no 
conflicting expert opinion and Mr H seemingly hadnt provided a legal challenge. So I didnt think, overall, LV had acted unfairly in relying on advice from the law firm stating it would be 
disproportionate to continue funding the claim. 
Mr H responded to query why LV had funded his claim for two and a half years; to question 
why LV hadnt sought information about potential costs much sooner; and to state that LV 
should be more specific about the maximum amount of cover which he feels is woefully 
inadequate. He asked for my formal decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, I dont uphold his complaint  Ill 
explain why. 
The crux of this complaint is whether it was fair and reasonable for LV to withdraw funding. 
And that was, for the most part, due to proportionality. 
Proportionality 
While it was said that Mr H had reasonable prospects of success for winning his case, the 
overarching question here is around whether the cost of legal expenses to pursue [the] 
claim would be proportional to the expected benefit as is required under the policy. The 
terms state that to determine this, it will consider several factors (listed earlier). Mr H has 
questioned whether these all need to be satisfied to continue with cover. But ultimately, I 
think the term whether a reasonable person without legal expenses insurance would pursue 
the matter and finance their own legal costs encompasses the other considerations. 
LV, as an insurer but not a legal expert, has taken advice from a law firm around this matter, 
which its entitled and generally expected to do. The law firm said the boundary dispute 
could cost £60,000 - £75,000 and said the following:
On balance I do not think a reasonable person without the benefit of legal expenses 
insurance would spend say, in excess of £10,000 on trying to resolve the dispute but 
may be prepared to pay up to that amount depending on their circumstances.
Given the potential costs were said to go substantially over this amount, it can be concluded 
from this that a reasonable person without the benefit of this insurance wouldnt be prepared 
to continue funding the dispute out of their own pocket. It could be said that this, in itself, is 
enough to withdraw funding. But Ive also considered the correspondence between LV and 
the law firm for the time the claim was ongoing, particularly as Mr H expressed concern 
around funding having been provided for as long as it was, with seemingly no consideration 
for the potential costs. The emails Ive seen show that some of the decision-making was 
based around whether the law firm would advise a privately-paying client to continue to 
defend the matter. Where it was deemed it would, LV continued to fund the claim.
It appears that LV queried whether it should continue to fund the claim at points where it was 
asked for further funds. But the law firm expressed that settlement was close (in January 
2019) and that matters appeared to be nearing conclusion and loose ends just needed to be 
tied up (in April 2019). So LV continued in light of the advice presented. Of relevance is 
contact from the law firm in January 2019 which said If the parties continue to argue over 
what might become a very small area of land then I will advise the cover should be 
withdrawn on the ground of lack of proportionality. And we know that the matter was still 
ongoing in September 2019. While Mr H later conceded on the land and asked for funding for alternative means, I say it was still ongoing because LV is entitled to treat all events 
related by cause or time as one and the issues stemmed from the initial boundary dispute. 
So, based on the evidence I have, I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to rely on the 
advice of a law firm in relation to funding this claim. Im satisfied that it appropriately queried 
whether it should continue funding and proceeded on the basis of the recommendations it 
was given. I conclude that it acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy here. 
Mr H questioned why LV hadnt sought information about the potential costs much earlier. 
But, from what Ive seen, it appeared that thered been the possibility of resolving the dispute 
at an earlier stage, which wouldve prevented the costs from escalating. Unfortunately, an 
earlier resolution didnt come to fruition as a result of pushback from the other side. 
While Mr H said he didnt receive a response from the law firm when he queried how the 
potential legal costs had been calculated, that doesnt change my view that LV was entitled 
to rely on the advice it was given. Mr H has also said it would be beneficial to LV to employ a 
law firm which would determine potential costs to be high so the claim could be declined. Ive 
been given no reason to think thats what happened here and note that LV paid out quite 
significant amounts before funding was withdrawn. Mr H didnt provide an opinion on the 
matter (from someone equally or more qualified) that conflicted with the advice of the law 
firm, and I see no reason for LV to have doubted what it was told or sought an alternative 
opinion. I appreciate that Mr H doesnt agree with the law firms assessment on 
proportionality. But his own opinion on this matter cannot reasonably outweigh that of the 
solicitors; for example, even where a policyholder is himself legally qualified, he cant act as 
an independent expert in his own cause. 
The policy cover
Due to the issue of proportionality, Im satisfied LV was within its rights to withdraw funding. 
But, for completeness, I did want to touch on the matters Mr H requested funding for, having 
agreed to concede the land in dispute. Mr H wanted to agree a boundary line to avoid losing 
any more land than hed already conceded, register said boundary, retain a feature in his 
garden, and determine the legality of a covenant preventing a fence from being built. But it 
appears that these would all be intended to prevent a future dispute, rather than pursuing or 
defending a claim as the policy states. The policy would only pay out if there was more than 
a 50% chance that the policyholder would win the case  but these requests dont relate to a 
case that could be won. This links in to my next point which is that the policy is for legal 
expenses: Legal fees, costs and expenses incurred by your legal representative But 
registering a boundary with Land Registry isnt a legal proceeding so wouldnt be covered by 
this policy. 
Maximum cover
Mr H feels LV should be more specific about the maximum cover and also feels £100,000 of 
cover is inadequate. I remain of the opinion that its clear, fair and not misleading that the 
most LV would pay (subject to proportionality and reasonable prospects of success) for any 
claim or claims arising from one insured event would be £100,000. I dont have anything 
further to add in relation to this. But I should point out that it isnt for me to tell LV what cover 
it should offer. Its for an insurer to decide the level of risk its willing to accept, as long as its 
made clear within the documentation  which I conclude it is. 
I do appreciate how difficult this situation has been for Mr H, and its clear how much time 
and energy has gone into the issue of the boundary dispute. But, based on all the evidence 
Ive seen in relation to the legal expenses insurance, I dont think LV has acted unfairly. So I 
wont be asking it to take any further action. My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman