DRN-3818095
The complaint
Mr K has complained that British Gas Insurance Limiteds technicians provided a poor level 
of service under his Homecare insurance policy, which led to damage to his floor and an 
injury to his arm. 
What happened
Mr K thought there was a water leak in his kitchen and called British Gas for assistance. 
They sent out a technician, but he was unable to identify the problem. They sent another 
technician five days later. This technician replaced an outside tap that he thought might be 
leaking, having made a hole in the wall to check whether there was an issue with it. 
According to Mr K the technician also moved the washing machine and tightened a pipe to it. 
Mr K reported to British Gas the leak hadnt stopped, so they sent out a third technician. 
British Gass notes suggest he tightened a valve on the washing machine, but was unable to 
get the washing machine back in place without damaging the flooring; and agreed with Mr 
Ks wife that he should stop trying to do this.
Mr K complained to British Gas. He said the second technician caused a leak when he 
adjusted the pipe to the washing machine and it was not leaking before this. And this caused 
further damage to his floor. He also said that he injured his arm trying to move the washing 
machine back into position after the technician left it.
British Gas didnt think their technicians had done anything wrong, although they did agree 
to make good the hole theyd made in the wall to check whether there was an issue with the 
tap. They refused to pay anything for the damage to the floor. 
Mr K complained to us and one of our investigators considered his complaint. She said 
British Gas should have provided a better level of service, as they should have been able to 
identify the cause of the leak and resolve the issue when the first technician visited. She 
suggested British Gas should pay £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr K experienced as a result of this poor service. But she didnt think there was sufficient 
evidence to show errors by British Gass technicians caused additional damage to Mr Ks 
floor or that British Gas were responsible for Mr K injuring his arm. 
British Gas has agreed to pay the compensation our investigator suggested. But Mr K 
doesnt think this is enough to put things right. He still thinks British Gass technicians 
caused additional damage to his floor and he should be compensated for his injured arm. In 
view of this, his complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr K is frustrated by the poor service he received from British Gas and his 
view that their technicians made mistakes. But, I have to balance this against the notes 
provided by British Gas, which do not suggest that their technicians made errors. I can see 
from the photographs Mr K has provided that there was some sort of leak behind his 
washing machine, but it looks as though it had been happening for some time. So, even if I 
were to accept British Gass technician did something that caused a leak from Mr Ks 
washing machine, I would not consider there is sufficient evidence to show this caused 
further damage to his floor. And Im not persuaded that any impact to the floor as a result of 
the technician moving Mr Ks washing machine made the cost of repairing it more. In view of 
this, I dont think it is appropriate for me to make British Gas pay for the repairs to Mr Ks 
floor. 
I am sorry to hear about the injury to Mr Ks arm. But it does seem his wife agreed with the 
technician that he should leave the washing machine out of position because she was 
worried about the floor. So, it wouldnt be fair to hold British Gas responsible for Mr Ks 
injury. And, even if I thought it wasnt right for the technician to leave the washing machine 
out of position for Mr K to put back in place, he couldnt possibly have foreseen this would 
result in an injury to Mr Ks arm. This was just an unfortunate accident, so I wouldnt expect 
British Gas to pay further compensation for it. 
What I can say is that British Gas should have identified the cause of the leak at Mr Ks 
home much sooner, probably on the first visit, and this would have saved him distress and 
inconvenience. Therefore, I agree with our investigators view that British Gas should pay  
Mr K £200 in compensation.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I think the fair outcome to Mr Ks complaint is for British Gas 
to pay him £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ks complaint about British Gas Insurance Limited and direct them to pay him 
£200 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman