DRN-3793020
The complaint
Mr B complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) continued to charge 
him an advice fee after his advisor had left. He wants the fees refunded and an apology and 
compensation for not being told his advisor had left.
What happened
Mr B had a stocks and shares ISA with SJP. He paid for ongoing advice which was provided 
by an SJP partner who was an appointed representative of SJP. 
On 11 April 2022 the contract between SJP and the advisor ended. SJP said it allowed the 
advisor to contact Mr B to tell him. But Mr B says he wasnt aware that the advisor wasnt 
working for SJP until he heard it from a third party. When Mr B contacted SJP in June, it 
confirmed the relationship had been terminated, but that the advisor was appealing the 
decision. In the interim, SJP said Mr B could contact it if he wanted advice and it would put 
him in contact with a temporary advisor. He received details of his new, permanent advisor 
on 1 July. During this period, Mr B continued to pay a fee for ongoing advice.
SJP said it expected Mr Bs old advisor to tell him shed left and that if he needed advice he 
could contact another, named, SJP partner. It said SJP then wrote to Mr B on 1 June to 
confirm his advisor had left and at the end of June it confirmed his new, permanent SJP 
partner. It said Mr B continued to have access to advice throughout this period, so it didnt 
agree to refund its fees.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought SJP 
could have communicated better with Mr B, but he couldnt conclude that Mr B had been 
disadvantaged. Mr B said that, had he known his advisor had left, he would have transferred 
to a new provider. Hes done that now, and the fees are less than what he was charged at 
SJP, so he says he has been disadvantaged. But our investigator didnt find this changed his 
conclusion. He said Mr B didnt give instructions to transfer his account immediately he knew 
his advisor had left; so the investigator couldnt conclude he wouldve transferred his account 
any earlier had SJP given him the information any earlier.
Mr B didnt agree so asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
SJP continued to provide access to one of its SJP partners following the departure of Mr Bs 
original advisor. If Mr B had wanted his investments reviewed, or if hed wanted any advice, 
SJP would have provided this. Due to the circumstances in which his advisor had left, there 
was a period of a couple of months when a temporary advisor was assigned to Mr B, before 
a permanent new advisor was appointed. But theres nothing to suggest that during this 
period Mr B didnt receive the service he was paying for  SJP continued to manage his 
investments.
Mr Bs last annual review was completed in May 2021. I think its more likely than not that a 
review would have been completed in, or shortly after, May 2022 if his advisor hadnt left. In 
view of the circumstances of their departure, and the temporary arrangement that was put in 
place, its understandable that Mr B wasnt offered a review until his new, permanent SJP 
partner was appointed. But, as noted above, Mr B could have requested a review at any 
time. 
When his advisors contract with SJP was terminated, both parties agreed that the advisor 
would contact Mr B to let him know. But Mr B had an agreement with SJP, and it would have 
been helpful if SJP had contacted Mr B much sooner than it did. That said, there was 
nothing in the agreement to oblige SJP to tell Mr B about a change of advisor. 
Even if SJP had contacted Mr B at an earlier stage to tell him the advisor had left, I cant 
conclude with any certainty that it would have made a difference. I appreciate Mr B says he 
would have arranged to transfer his investments elsewhere and that the on-going costs 
would have been less. But SJP told him his advisor had left in its letter dated 1 June 2022. 
And Mr B didnt give instructions to transfer his investments until 5 September. So I cant 
conclude he would have acted immediately to transfer his investments had he known on, or 
shortly after, 11 April, that his advisor had left.
For the reasons Ive explained, I find SJP continued to provide the advice service Mr B was 
paying for, so I dont find theres any obligation on SJP to refund its fees. And Im not 
persuaded that Mr B has been financially disadvantaged by the delay in SJP telling him that 
his advisor had left.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman