DRN-3132004
The complaint
Ms K complains Dendro Private Wealth Limited delayed acting on her instructions to cash in 
her pension policy and didnt warn her the value could change, causing her a financial loss.
Dendro Private Wealth Limited is an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Services 
Limited which is responsible for answering the complaint.
What happened
Mr W (the adviser) had been Ms Ks financial adviser since 2013 when he advised on 
investing her divorce settlement. He moved to Dendro in 2018 and in 2019 advised Ms K to 
transfer two pension plans to her existing Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) held on 
provider As platform. The monies were invested in a balanced multi-index fund Ill call L, 
made up of a range of UK, US, European and global equities, sterling and overseas 
corporate bonds and gilts, in line with Ms Ks attitude to risk. Ms K also had a significant 
investment portfolio held with provider C from which she draws annual income of around 
£96,000. 
In February 2020 Ms K had read an article suggesting the entitlement to 25% tax-free cash 
from a pension might be withdrawn in the future. So on 10 February 2020 she asked the 
adviser what the process for taking it would be. The adviser thought the entitlement was 
unlikely to be withdrawn and in any event, advised Ms K against taking funds from the tax-
efficient pension environment if she didnt have an immediate need for the money. The value 
of her pension at that time was £541,814 and Ms K said she needed £20,000 for necessary 
home improvements. So the adviser suggested it would be more tax efficient to withdraw 
funds from her ISAs and general investment account (GIA) held with C. But Ms K says she 
suspected the adviser tried to dissuade her from withdrawing funds from her pension to 
ensure they remained with Dendro as this would have benefitted him in some way. 
Markets were volatile around this time due to uncertainty related to the Covid-19 pandemic 
and many investors withdrew funds to try and mitigate their losses, adding to the negative 
sentiment. Ms K and the adviser exchanged emails in which Ms K expressed her concerns 
about falling markets. But the adviser recommended that Ms K should do nothing and wait 
for markets to recover. 
On Friday, 13 March 2020 in one of these email exchanges the adviser told Ms K that as of 
3pm the previous day her fund had made a paper loss of 8.86%, but if shed been invested 
in the FTSE the loss would be around 29%. Ms K decided to crystallise her loss, which shed 
assumed would be around £48,000 calculated as 8.86% of the 10 February valuation, 
because she was concerned it would worsen. 
So that afternoon she gave telephone instructions to the adviser to disinvest her pension 
fund. When the transaction completed the following working day Monday 16 March 2020, 
Ms K received £447,350 which was far less than she expected. Ms K complained saying 
Quilter should make up her loss of £46,460. 
Quilter didnt uphold the complaint. It said Ms K had been fully aware investments can rise 
and fall on a daily basis as set out in the key facts documents shed initially received and 
drew her attention to the risk warnings in the suitability report from 2019. It said Ms K had 
repeatedly been advised against disinvesting her pension which should be viewed as a long-
term investment, so they didnt feel compensation was due. But to resolve the complaint 
Quilter said if Ms K gave instructions by 2pm on 18 March 2020 it would buy back into the 
fund with no charge. If the unit price had fallen below the sale price of £0.6703 she could buy 
more units or buy the same number of units for a lower cost and keep the balance. And if the 
unit price had risen Quilter would make up the difference. It also instructed A to reduce the 
ongoing fees from 0.75% to zero. 
Ms K rejected Quilters offer. She said this didnt make up for the loss shed suffered. She 
referred her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our investigators, 
who initially didnt uphold it as he felt the offer to buy back into the fund was fair. Ms K then 
provided further information which changed the investigators mind. The adviser had told 
Ms K the L fund had a dealing point of 3pm so instructions given by 2.30pm would be 
processed using the valuation as at the previous day. Ms K had subsequently contacted A 
and discovered it has two dealing windows at 11am and 4pm but an instruction given on 
Friday 13 March 2020 wouldnt be processed until the next working day (Monday) and it was 
over this period the fund fell significantly. Ms K said if shed known about the time lag she 
wouldnt have given Quilter the instructions to sell, and instead wouldve raised the funds 
she needed by selling other shares or a short-term loan. The investigator accepted Ms K had 
been given misleading information so he said Quilter should pay compensation of £300. But 
he didnt think they were responsible for the loss Ms K made as shed acted against Quilters 
recommendation. 
Both Quilter and Ms K disagreed with the outcome  Quilter thought they hadnt done 
anything wrong and Ms K still thinks Quilter should make up her loss. So its been passed to 
me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The basis of Ms Ks complaint is that she wanted to disinvest her pension since early 
February 2020, but the adviser spent too long trying to dissuade her from doing that in which 
time the value had fallen. And when she finally gave the instructions on 13 March 2020 it 
was on the understanding shed make a loss of around £48,000, and the sale would go 
through that day. She says had she been given the correct information she wouldnt have 
sold. But having looked at the exchanges between the adviser and Ms K, Im not persuaded 
by this. Ill explain why. 
Ms Ks initial communications with the adviser in February 2020 were about the possibility 
the entitlement to 25% tax-free cash might be withdrawn. The adviser thought that was 
unlikely, but if she needed funds for essential home improvements he recommended she 
withdraw from her other investments with C rather than access her pension. Quilter hasnt 
been able to provide the call recordings, but the contact note of a call on 26 February 2020 
says the adviser suggested Ms K take the £20,000 from her ISA as the allowance would be 
replaced in the new tax year. Ms K said shed give that some thought and come back to him 
by 6 March 2020.
Ms K questioned the advisers motives for advising her to withdraw from her investments 
with C as hed suggested in 2019 she switch those funds which she didnt wish to do. But I 
think the advice he was giving to her was suitable as he was explaining the important tax advantages for maintaining her pension savings. This is confirmed by email exchanges with 
the adviser. On 26 February 2020 the adviser said to Ms K: 
For the record, I think its the wrong thing to do but respect your wishes. Do you 
want me to contact [A] with a view to putting the money in the same investment 
fund within a General Investment Account so you end up with the same investment 
profile but with 25% outside of the pension? 
The adviser went on to say that: 
youre better off taking the sum you need from the [C]  Portfolio as the pension 
grows completely free of tax whereas the [C] portfolio is subject to Income Tax on 
Dividends and Capital Gains Tax, and IHT at some point in the future. It is also far 
more expensive. Are you absolutely positive about taking money from the pension 
as it cant be reversed? 
Therefore, Im persuaded that it was more likely than not that the adviser advised Ms K as 
he did, because, in his opinion for the reasons outlined above, it was the most suitable 
course of action for her to take. Ive seen no evidence that it was for any other reason.
Ms Ks concerns then focussed on the impact of the pandemic on investment markets. An 
email from 27 February 2020 read: 
With the markets in apparent free fall just wondering about my investments!  Should 
I sell? 
The adviser replied 
No, because the money is for the rest of your life and markets have made a knee-
jerk reaction to an unknown quantity. Your portfolio has less than 60% allocation to 
equities so 40% defensive assets which will have acted as a drag-anchor and turned 
positive as a result ie bonds. But Im keeping a watching brief! 
On Friday 6 March 2020 Ms K emailed the adviser to say that she was very worried about 
falling stock markets and whether she should remain invested. The adviser said he would 
send her some information after the weekend about the benefit of staying in the market and 
advised Ms K to wait for the recovery which will happen, it always does, we just need the 
panic to subside.
On the morning of Monday 9 March 2020, Ms K emailed the adviser as shed heard the 
FTSE was predicted to open 6% down. The adviser tried to reassure her that her portfolio is 
actively managed and that while the 52% held in equities might fall  this would be offset by 
the bond element which would rise, and said: There is no trigger point to sell everything in 
this fund or any other.  
Ms K wanted to know who would make the decision to sell to which the adviser replied: If 
your circumstances remain unchanged and you dont need to encash your portfolio.. you 
should remain invested. The email continued Its uncomfortable for all seeing the market 
react this way but, unless you are a forced seller, you should ride out the storm. History tells 
us the market will recover but it might take time and no one knows when things will turn. If 
youre out of the market and miss the recovery, you will never catch up.
Ms K found the uncertainty around the pandemic very stressful, and she unfortunately 
became ill herself. Like many people, she wanted to take action to minimise her loss, 
although until crystallised any loss was only on paper. Such concerns are understandable at such a worrying time, and the high number of investors needing to encash their funds made 
the decline worse. But the adviser gave Ms K his advice and explained his reasons. This is 
what he was employed to do. 
A note of another call at 3pm on 12 March 2020 suggested Ms K was worried shed left it too 
late to sell. But by the end of the call the adviser noted it seemed Ms K had changed her 
mind and had been reassured to hear that the advisers own pension remained fully 
invested. 
But Ms K phoned again in the afternoon of Friday 13 March 2020 and its recorded that she 
was struggling emotionally with the current volatility. The adviser stressed the importance of 
her pension being the last piece of wealth she will spend and mentioned her monthly 
withdrawals of £8,000 from C to fund her living expenses. He told her that if shes right in 
thinking the pandemic will cause markets to tumble again shell be a forced seller each 
month to generate the necessary income. So he said it would be better to cash in £467K 
with C which would provide her with 58 months worth of income, rather than her use her 
pension. 
Despite what the adviser was telling Ms K, she still wanted to proceed so ultimately he took 
her instructions at 2.37pm to sell so that she didnt worry over the weekend. Ms K was told 
once she sold her funds theyd be held in cash, but theres no mention in the note that she 
was warned the value could fall further before the sale was processed. 
Ive seen the email in which Mr W told Ms K about the L funds cut off time, understanding 
that if he received instructions from her by 2.30pm theyd be processed the same day. Ms K 
discovered by contacting A herself that regardless of Ls deadlines, A would process an 
instruction the next business day, and the fund switch statement from A shows the 
instructions were received on 13 March 2020 and processed on Monday 16 March 2020.
This is set out in Dendros terms of business document which reads Best Execution policy  
for the majority of collective investments they will be bought or sold at the next Valuation 
Point (typically 12.00 Midday) the next business day, after the instruction has been received 
by the platform.
So, Im satisfied the adviser didnt explain to Ms K, and perhaps wasnt aware himself, that 
her instructions wouldnt be processed until the following working day. However, if I were to 
uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied that the adviser was the cause of the loss. And 
I dont think he was in this case. From the outset Ms K made it clear she wanted to sell her 
units. She went against the clear, fair and not misleading advice of the adviser. I think on 
balance, even if Ms K had been told the correct processing time by the adviser, she still 
would have issued instructions to sell her units. As she was focussed on her concern about 
the impact of the pandemic on her pension as a whole rather than raising just the necessary 
amount for her home repairs. 
Ms K says she wanted the transaction processed on 13 March 2020 as that was a positive 
trading day for the FTSE and Dow. If thats right I think it would only be known for sure with 
hindsight. The evidence shows Ms K had been thinking about cashing in her pension since 
early February 2020 even when she was advised not to do so. 
I can also see that despite Ms K acting against its advice, Quilter has made Ms K a 
reasonable offer to try to resolve things amicably. Ms K sold 667,388 units in L at a unit price 
of £0.6073 and received just over £447,350. Quilter proposed to either buy the same number 
of units at the prevailing cost of £0.6646 leaving just over £3,804 in cash. Or it could reinvest 
the full £447,350 buying as many units as possible with that sum. I will leave it to Ms K to 
decide whether she wishes to accept this offer from Quilter if it is still available to her.Howe ver, I do feel the adviser should have warned Ms K the valuation hed given her wasnt 
guaranteed and the unit price would be determined at the dealing point as the figure he had 
access to is likel y to have been at close the previous day. And he shouldve been aware 
from Dendros own terms of business that instruction s wouldnt be implemented until the 
next business day. So, whilst I dont hold Quilter responsible for Ms Ks decision to cash in 
her pension at a significant loss, I do think the sum of £300 fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience it cause d by providing incorrect information to her. 
For all these reaso ns, I partially uphol d this complaint. I know both parties will be 
disappointed by this outcome, but I think it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold thi s complaint in part. Quilter Financial Services Limited should pay Ms K £300. 
Unde r the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman