DRN-4305527
The complaint
Mr D and Miss J complain that a predecessor financial institution which is now part of 
Santander UK Plc irresponsibly provided them with a loan.
What happened
Mr D and Miss J were provided with a £10,000 fixed sum loan in October 2007. The loan 
term was 60 months and Mr D and Miss J were required to make monthly repayments of 
around £195. Mr D says that before the loan was provided adequate checks werent carried 
out. He says the loan was unaffordable and while they were able to make the repayments 
until the loan was repaid other credit commitments went unpaid. 
Santander issued a final response letter in December 2022. It didnt uphold this complaint 
and said that it completed the necessary check for the loan to be approved based on the 
application made. 
Mr D wasnt satisfied with Santanders response and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought that Santander should have taken 
steps to verify Mr D and Miss Js income and gathered further information about their 
expenses. But she found that had this happened the loan would have still appeared 
affordable.
Mr D and Miss J didnt agree with our investigators view. They didnt find the calculation of 
Mr Ds income gave a fair reflection of his income at the time and said a more accurate 
figure would leave them with disposable income of around £569 a month before the 
repayment of the loan. They said that they had two young children for which they needed to 
pay childcare costs as well as the general living costs. They said the loan wasnt affordable 
and they had to borrow more year after year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
As our investigator explained, Santander needed to make sure that it didnt provide the loan 
irresponsibly. In practice, this means that Santander needed to carry out proportionate 
checks to be able to understand whether any lending was sustainable before providing it.
I note Santanders comment that the loan was repaid with no issues and that Mr D and 
Miss J didnt contact it during the term of the loan to advise it of any financial difficulties. 
However, I also note Mr D and Miss Js comment that while they made the repayments on 
this loan, they were missing payments on other debts. 
Mr D says that adequate checks werent carried out before the loan was provided. Given 
when the loan was provided, I do not find it surprising that Santander no longer has the 
results from the checks that were undertaken at the time and I note it says that the 
affordability of the loan would have been assessed and credit checks carried out. As I cannot 
say for certain what checks took place and the outcome of these, I have considered what it 
would have been reasonable to check and what this would have likely shown.
The loan was for £10,000 repayable over 60 months. Santander has said that credit checks 
would have taken place and while I do not have the outcome of these based on information 
provided by Mr D and Miss J it shows they had other debts at the time and had missed some 
payments in the months leading up to the loan. As this would have been identified through a 
credit check and noting the size and term of the loan, I think it would have been reasonable 
to have verified Mr D and Miss Js income and to consider information about their expenses 
to ensure the lending was affordable.
I do not find that Santander was required to ask for Mr D and Miss Js bank statements but 
as I think their income should have been verified, I think it reasonable to consider the 
information included in these in the months leading up to the loan. Also, as Mr D was self-
employed, I have taken into account the information contained in his accounts for the year 
ending prior to the loan application (year ending March 2007). From the information 
provided, Miss J was receiving monthly income of around £2,845 as well as £120 in child 
benefit. Mr Ds monthly post tax income based on his accounts ending March 2007 was 
around £2,293 (based on a gross income per month averaging £3,685). I note that Mr D and 
Miss J have given a different number based on additional tax Mr D needed to pay. But I think 
a reasonable approach to assessing his income would be on the net profit less tax and 
national insurance contributions. The bank statements for the months leading up to the loan 
appeared to give a higher income than this for Mr D but I think it reasonable to use the figure 
of £2,293. This would give total monthly income for Mr D and Miss J of around £5,258.
Noting the size of the repayments due under the loan compared to Mr D and Miss Js 
income and without further evidence to show the credit files would have shown any serious 
concerns of financial difficulty (evidence of some missed payments has been provided but 
the bank statements suggest repayments of their commitments were being made in a 
regular manner), I do not find that it was necessary for Mr D and Miss Js expenses to have 
been verified. That said a credit check would have shown they were paying around £700 a 
month for other loans as well as around £25 a month on a credit card. They were also 
paying £2,015 on a mortgage and as they were homeowners costs for utilities and 
insurances should reasonably have been factored in along with costs to reflect they had 
dependents. 
Having looked through the bank statements I can see the costs for utilities, communications 
and insurances as well as the payments to other credit providers. But taking these into 
account I find this leaves around £1,487 for the Santander loan repayments and other living 
costs. Based on this I do not find I can say that further checks would have suggested the 
loan wasnt affordable. Because of this, I do not find that I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Jane ArcherOmbudsman