DRN-2557568
The complaint
Mrs V has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to tell her that she was no 
longer earning credit interest on her 123 account.
 
What happened
Mrs V opened a 123 account with Santander in 2013. In 2019 Mrs V discovered that she 
was no longer receiving credit interest on her account. Mrs V says that Santander did not 
make her aware that she was not receiving interest and shouldve contacted her as a matter 
of courtesy. She believes that Santander should refund her the interest that she missed out 
on. 
Santander say that the reason why no interest was earned was because a direct debit was 
cancelled by Mrs V in 2018 and she no longer met the criteria for earning interest. Santander 
also says that Mrs V was informed that she was no longer meeting the criteria for interest on 
her monthly bank account statements.
One of our adjudicators assessed Mrs Vs complaint and didnt uphold it. Mrs V disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to review her case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this instance the main things for me to consider is whether Santander made Mrs V aware 
of the criteria for earning interest; whether Mrs V no longer met the criteria; and whether 
Santander did what it was obliged to do in relation to informing Mrs V that she was no longer 
meeting any criterion.
I should also clarify that as an independent and impartial service I can only recommend that 
Santander refund interest if it has done something wrong.
In relation to the notification of the criteria for earning interest I can see that it is highlighted 
in the terms and conditions of the account; on monthly bank statements; and on the 
welcome e-mail that was sent to Mrs V when she opened the account. So I think Santander 
did enough to inform Mrs V on how to earn interest. This is supported by the fact that Mrs V 
did meet the criteria prior to her cancelling a direct debit in 2018.
I am satisfied that Mrs V cancelled a direct debit in 2018 herself which meant that she only 
had one active direct debit on the account. I can see that the criteria for earning interest 
states that two active direct debits are required for interest to be earned. So overall I am 
satisfied that Mrs V not longer met the criteria once she cancelled her direct debit.
The next thing to consider is whether Santander did enough to inform Mrs V that she was no 
longer earning interest. I can see that on the monthly account statements posted to Mrs V in 
the interest earned section it stated that no interest was being earned. Additionally, directly 
under this section it states the criteria for earning interest. Given this I think that Santander 
has done what it was required to do.
I note that Mrs V believes that as a courtesy Santander shouldve contacted her directly 
outside of the monthly account statements. I understand Mrs Vs feelings on this but nothing 
in the terms and conditions of the account state that Santander was required to do this. 
There was no personal account management, or wider financial advice, provided as part of 
this account. So I cant see how an individual Santander representative could have been 
expected to notice this change and proactively contact Mrs V about it.
 
Because of this, I dont think Santander should pay Mrs V the interest she couldve earned. 
So overall Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman