DRN-3032798
The complaint
Mr D has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline a claim he made 
under his home insurance policy which he holds jointly with Mrs D for damage to their floor 
following a gas leak repair. 
What happened
Mr D reported a gas leak coming from an underground pipe in their home and made a claim 
under the Home Assistance section of their policy using the Trace and Access (T&A) cover. 
This meant Mr and Mrs D were covered for the repairs to the gas leak, but not reinstatement 
works to the floor in order to access the leak and repair.
An approved gas engineer attended and repaired the gas leak. Mr D contacted AXA as he 
wanted the floor to be repaired  which had been damaged accessing the gas pipe. 
AXA tells us the T&A section of cover is underwritten by another insurer. However, in 
response to Mr Ds complaint that the floor repairs werent covered, AXA said the claim 
wasnt covered and quoted an exclusion from the T&A section of Mr Ds policy. 
AXA told us it quoted the incorrect policy term when deciding to reject Mr Ds claim. It said it 
rejected his claim under the home insurance policy as the cause of damage was due to wear 
and tear. It said the only circumstances where the damage would be covered was if the 
damage to the underground gas pipe was caused accidentally. 
Our investigator asked AXA to provide evidence to support its decision to decline the claim 
for accidental damage. AXA said it relied on what Mr D told it  that hed said it was caused 
by wear and tear. 
Our investigator listened to the key call and found that it was AXAs agent that suggested to 
Mr D that the damage was caused by wear and tear  and that Mr D didnt fully confirm. The 
call was made before the underground pipe had been accessed  so the cause couldnt 
have been known to Mr D at the time. 
The investigator thought it was for AXA to demonstrate that its decision to decline the claim 
was reasonable. She didnt think it had done this  and so she recommended AXA meet Mr 
Ds claim under the Accidental Damage section of his policy and deal with the repairs to the 
floor. 
Mr D accepted the investigators view. AXA didnt agree. It says it didnt deal with the 
emergency repair call out. So its only possible to rely on the information provided by Mr D. It 
seems the most logical conclusion is that the damage wasnt caused accidentally  as Mr D 
didnt recall any event that would have led to the pipe suffering damage. 
So AXA wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think AXA has failed to properly deal with Mr Ds claim. Their policy with AXA provides 
cover in the event of a claim to underground gas pipes. It excludes cover for loss or damage 
caused by; 
corrosion of the gas supply pipe due to natural wear and tear or methods used to 
conceal the pipe work, such as under a concrete floor, without adequate protection.
 Or;
Damage resulting from gaining necessary access to the emergency or reinstating 
the fabric of your home. Otherwise known as Trace and Access.
While the policy term is clear about what it does and doesnt cover, AXA failed to properly 
investigate Mr Ds claim  after agreeing to consider it under the Accidental Damage section 
of his policy. It also failed to explain the outcome correctly to Mr D as it quoted the wrong 
exclusion ( from the Trace and Access section of the policy) to support its decision. 
As the insurer that considered Mr Ds claim, it should have sought evidence to support its 
decision that the damage was caused by wear and tear. It didnt do this. I dont think its fair 
for AXA to rely on a conversation with Mr D before the gas pipe was accessed to determine 
the cause of the leak. I havent seen anything to show AXAs decision to decline the claim 
due to wear and tear was reasonable. 
So I think the fairest outcome is for AXA to deal with Mr Ds claim under the Accidental 
Damage section, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. Mr D says he 
has arranged for the floor to be repaired and has proof of payment, which he will need to 
provide AXA with so that it can reimburse him for his reasonable costs.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to meet Mr 
Ds claim for accidental damage subject to reasonable proof of payment. AXA should 
reimburse Mr D for the reasonable costs he paid to repair his floor and pay interest on the 
amount at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date of payment to the date of 
reimbursement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman