DRN-3868984
The complaint
Mr Y is unhappy that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) didnt provide him with information he 
requested about making changes to his policy. Hes also unhappy about the delays he 
experienced.
What happened
Mr Y held an income protection policy with ReAssure Limited. The policy  called an Income 
Security Plan - was incepted in 1998 and at that time his annual income was given as 
£60,000 per annum. The policy was index-linked meaning his premiums and benefits could 
change over time.
In September 2020, Mr Y received a letter from ReAssure (Ill refer to this as the update 
letter) letting him know about changes to his policy due to indexation. This letter confirmed 
an increase in Mr Ys monthly premium and the new policy benefit amount  which for his 
annual salary of £60,000, was £4,778.26 per month.
As a result of this letter Mr Y got in touch with ReAssure. He wanted updated information 
about the premium and Income Replacement Benefit of his policy as his income (salary) had 
reduced to £50,000 per year. 
He had to chase ReAssure more than once for the information hed requested. Hes said he 
was worried because his premiums, based on an insured salary of £60,000, were due to go 
up in November 2020. And he was worried he was over-insured.
In early November 2020, ReAssure wrote to Mr Y to confirm he could decrease his policy 
benefits and premium. It gave him details of the monthly income protection benefit amount 
and the monthly premium for £50,000 of annual benefit. On receipt of that information, Mr Y 
realised thered been a mistake so clarified his request. He confirmed he wanted to know the 
monthly benefit amount and corresponding premium for £50,000 annual earned income 
(salary), not for £50,000 of annual benefit. 
In early December 2020, Mr Y received a further letter from ReAssure. It said it couldnt 
provide the maximum benefit allowed based on his yearly income of £50,000 unless he 
could confirm the amount of monthly income protection benefit he required. It went on to say 
it was unable to provide financial advice and recommended he contact an independent 
financial adviser.
Mr Y was unhappy with ReAssures response and raised a complaint. He told ReAssure he 
didnt believe giving him the premium and benefit information hed requested equated to 
financial advice. He thought it should be able to give him information about the premium 
hed need to pay to insure an annual salary of £50,000, along with the Income Replacement 
Benefit amount. Unfortunately, there was a further delay in his complaint being investigated.
In June 2021, ReAssure responded to Mr Ys complaint. It said I agree the letter is 
confusing as it suggested were providing a quote for £50,000 of benefit each year. This is a 
typing error as the letter does confirm the level of Income Replacement Benefit and monthly 
premium for a salary of £50,000. It recognised the poor service hed received and offered to 
pay Mr Y £125.00 to say sorry.
Mr Y remained unhappy and contacted ReAssure again. He wasnt satisfied the quote hed 
received in November 2020 was accurate. He pointed out that the calculation of the monthly 
benefit for a salary of £50,000 was also £50,000. He didnt believe the policy would pay him 
benefit equivalent to 100% of his annual salary in the event of a claim. He also complained 
he was still paying the premium to insure a salary of £60,000 - so he was over-insured.
ReAssure wrote to Mr Y again and reiterated its position. It said it couldnt provide a further 
breakdown of benefit information for Mr Y as, at the point of a claim other benefits he might 
be entitled to would need to be considered.
Mr Y remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this Service. 
An investigator here considered his concerns but didnt uphold his complaint. He agreed 
ReAssure hadnt given Mr Y the level of service it should have but thought the payment of 
£125.00 fairly recognised the problems hed experienced. He also accepted ReAssures 
position that it couldnt give Mr Y the monthly benefit information he wanted unless Mr Y first 
provided ReAssure with the monthly benefit he needed.
Mr Y didnt agree with our investigators opinion and so the case has been passed to me for 
a final determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint because my findings differed from that of 
our investigator. In my provisional decision, which forms part of this final decision, I said:
The crux of this complaint stems from a request  from Mr Y to ReAssure  about making an 
adjustment to his policy.  
The obligations placed on ReAssure by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). PRIN 2.1 
The Principles says:
2.1.1.6 A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
2.1.1.7 A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Im not satisfied, based on the evidence presented to me that ReAssure has met this 
obligation. Let me explain.
Mr Y asked ReAssure for a quote giving him two key pieces of information  the premium 
hed have to pay to insure his annual income of £50,000 and the correlated monthly benefit 
amount. This is the equivalent information he received in the September update letter related 
to his higher salary.
Between ReAssures November letter and Mr Y clarifying his request a few days later, he 
missed two phone calls from ReAssure. Mr Y tried to return the calls but couldnt get through and then emailed ReAssure with his 
mobile telephone number so it could contact him again. Unfortunately, I dont think ReAssure 
and Mr Y had a chance to speak  but if they had of done so, I think its likely this situation 
could have been resolved. Unfortunately, what followed was misunderstandings and 
frustration.
ReAssure hasnt provided Mr Y with all the information he needs to adjust his policy to reflect 
his changed circumstances. Hes been paying premiums to cover an insured salary of 
£60,000 despite knowing, that in the event of a claim, ReAssure would adjust his benefits to 
reflect his reduced income, and in line with the other policy terms. Following the intervention 
of our investigator, Mr Y is now aware that in the event of a claim, the maximum benefit hed 
receive would be 65% of his income up to £45,000 and 35% of anything £45,000 and above. 
Thats information ReAssure should have been able to give him. I accept that at the time of a 
claim, benefits from other sources, might need to be considered.
I dont think Mr Ys original request to ReAssure was unreasonable. The September update 
letter included three tables  two of the tables seem most relevant to Mr Ys subsequent 
request. 
Table 2 shows three columns headed Premium, the New Monthly premium 
amount and the Indexation rate.  
oMr Y wanted to know the premium hed have to pay to reduce his cover from 
a £60,000 to a £50,000 annual salary.
Table 3 shows a breakdown of the policy benefits. In Mr Ys case this shows as PHI 
and Non Linked Target. For PHI it gives a figure for the New benefit amount and 
the Indexation rate. 
oMr Y wanted to know the new benefit amount against a salary of £50,000.
As ReAssure was able to provide this information for a salary of £60,000, I think its 
reasonable it could provide the same information against the lower salary amount. 
ReAssure recognised its service hadnt always been of the standard Mr Y should expect but 
Im not satisfied £125 fully reflects the delays and frustration Mr Y has experienced. He had 
to chase ReAssure several times for the information he wanted, and it took a long time for 
ReAssure to respond to his complaint. And while ReAssure say it cant give financial advice, 
Im not satisfied the information Mr Y was asking for constitutes financial advice.
Both parties responded and accepted my provisional decision, so I see no reason to depart 
from my original findings.
Putting things right
To put things right, ReAssure Limited should:
Confirm the monthly premium Mr Y would need to pay for cover for an annual salary 
of £50,000, along with confirmation of the monthly benefit amount.
If Mr Y opts to reduce his level of cover in line with his reduced annual salary, 
ReAssure should apply that change to his policy from November 2020 and refund 
him the difference between the higher premiums hes paid since then and the new 
lower premium. It should also add 8% simple interest* from the date the higher 
premium was paid to the date of settlement.
Increase the level of compensation offered to Mr Y for poor service to £175.00 in 
total. If ReAssure has already paid the £125.00 originally offered, it should now pay 
the balance of £50.00.*If ReAssure considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr Y how much its taken off. It should also give Mr Y a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and ReAssure Limited should put things right 
as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Sian Brightey
Ombudsman