DRN-2816692
The complaint
Mr T complains that a car acquired with finance from Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.   
What happened
In September 2020 Mr T was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with MBFS.
Having collected the car, Mr T experienced juddering and the automatic boot broke.
The car was returned to the supplying dealer who replaced the brake discs and pads at no 
cost to Mr T. They also repaired the automatic boot. 
A few weeks later, Mr T experienced the car juddering again. He returned the car to his local 
Mercedes dealership who diagnosed a buckled wheel. The dealership offered to replace the 
wheel at cost, but Mr T declined this and complained to MBFS and asked to reject the car.
MBFS upheld Mr Ts complaint but said it wouldnt accept a rejection. It said the dealership 
didnt accept that the wheel was buckled at the point of supply because if it had been, Mr T 
would have continued to experience vibration and juddering after the brakes and pads were 
replaced. MBFS said it would cover the cost of a replacement alloy as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr T wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said the drivers wheel was buckled and that 
MBFS hadnt done enough to prove that it wasnt present or developing at the point of 
supply. The investigator said there was no dispute that the wheel was refurbished prior to 
the point of supply, and that the refurbishment had left excess paint on the mating surface 
between the wheel and the axle. The investigator said that if the wheel and axle mating 
surfaces werent flush, this could result in uneven brake wear over time, which presents itself 
as juddering under braking and then juddering whilst driving as it gets worse. The 
investigator felt that this was the most likely cause of the juddering, and that because the 
poor refurbishment was present at the point of supply, the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
The investigator said that because MBFS had already been given the opportunity to repair 
the car, Mr T should be allowed to reject it.
MBFS didnt agree. It said that in order to establish whether the vibration was due to a point 
of supply issue, or whether it was due to a buckled wheel, it would need to replace the 
wheel, which it had offered to do. It said that if, once the wheel had been replaced, the 
vibration persisted, then it would agree that the vibration was likely to be a point of supply 
issue. MBFS said the wheel wasnt buckled when the discs and pads were replaced, which 
suggested that it was the buckled wheel causing the vibration now. It said the buckled wheel 
was likely to have been caused by hitting a pothole or kerb but that irrespective of this, it had 
offered to cover the cost of a new wheel.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MBFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as the age 
and mileage of the car and the price paid.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply and its up to the 
business to show otherwise. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair a fault. If the 
repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof 
is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. 
Mr T and MBFS disagree about whether the car is of satisfactory quality. In order to reach a 
decision, I need to look at all the available evidence and determine, on the balance of 
probability, whether the car is of satisfactory quality.
An experts report can help to decide whether a car is of satisfactory quality.  There hasnt 
been an independent inspection of Mr Ts car, so Ive considered the available engineering 
evidence. This comprises comments from Mr Ts local Mercedes dealership after it inspected 
the car in February 2021. Ive also taken into account the comments from the supplying 
dealer and Mr T himself. 
I can see that Mr T experienced juddering as soon as he collected the car and that the brake 
discs and pads were replaced by the supplying dealer. The supplying dealer didnt identify a 
buckled wheel when it carried out these repairs. Nor did it identify the excessive paint on the 
refurbished wheel.
Mr T has said that the repairs resolved the juddering issues temporarily but that after around 
4 weeks the juddering returned and got worse.
When Mr Ts local Mercedes dealership inspected the wheel in February 2021, it found that 
the wheel was buckled. It also found that the wheel had been refurbished and that the ball 
joint had excessive play. It found excessive paint on the wheel, which it said could stop the 
wheel from sitting flush and could cause more issues.
The supplying dealer has said that the juddering would not have disappeared for 4 weeks if 
the wheel had been buckled at the point of supply. MBFS has said that it doesnt think the 
wheel was buckled at the point of supply because the juddering wouldnt have taken 4 
weeks to present itself following the repairs to the discs.
Theres no dispute that the wheel is buckled. However, theres no evidence specifically 
linking the buckled wheel to the juddering. Mr Ts local dealership hasnt said that the 
buckled wheel is the cause of the juddering. But it has said that the wheel is being prevented 
from sitting flush which can cause issues.
Ive considered whether it could be the excessive paint causing the juddering, as opposed to 
the buckled wheel. Its of concern that the excessive paint wasnt identified by the supplying 
dealer when it replaced the discs and pads. Theres nothing to suggest that the wheel has 
been refurbished since Mr T took possession of the car. So, it seems likely that the car was 
supplied with a poorly refurbished wheel.
In the absence of an independent inspection, Ive carried out some research into brake judder caused by refurbished wheels. Essentially, the thickness of the paint has an impact 
on the run out of the brake disc. If the paint is too thick, when it meets the disc, it will 
increase the run out and cause issues like brake judder. The issue can affect connected 
components such as the ball joint and axle.
Looking at the comments from the local Mercedes dealership, there is excessive play in the 
ball joint. All of the available evidence suggests to me that the judder is likely to be caused 
by the poorly refurbished wheel. I dont think the buckled wheel is the cause, so it doesnt 
really matter whether the wheel was buckled at the point of supply or not.
Im satisfied that the poorly refurbished wheel was present at the point of supply. And on the 
balance of evidence, Im of the view that the poorly refurbished wheel, and in particular the 
excess paint, is the cause of the judder. I appreciate that the judder stopped temporarily 
when the brake discs and pads were replaced. However, this isnt inconsistent with my 
conclusions as to the cause of the judder, because its likely to take some time following the 
replacement of discs and pads for the paint to impact on the disc again to the point where 
juddering starts again. 
Putting things right
The supplying dealer has already had one attempt at repairing the fault with the car. This 
wasnt a successful repair because the judder returned. I dont think MBFS has rebutted the 
presumption that the fault was a point of supply fault. The car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply and Mr T should be allowed to reject it. 
I appreciate that MBFS has offered to replace the wheel. However, theres already been an 
attempt at repair and Mr T isnt obliged to accept a further repair. Further, I dont think a 
repair would be a fair resolution to the complaint. The local dealership said that the poorly 
refurbished wheel could have caused other issues. Its already been noted that theres 
excessive play in the ball joint. I dont think its reasonable to expect Mr T to run the risk that 
further issues will occur, because theres no guarantee that these would be resolved by 
simply replacing the wheel. 
Its clear that Mr T has been caused inconvenience by the issue with the wheel. Hes 
explained that he hasnt been able to use the car very much because of his concerns about 
safety. Hes also expressed frustration that the poorly refurbished wheel wasnt identified by 
the supplying dealer when the car was returned for repairs soon after the point of supply. In 
the circumstances I think its fair to ask MBFS to pay compensation to Mr T for the distress 
and inconvenience hes been caused as a result of being supplied with car which wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
Mr T has said that although hes been able to use the car, the juddering has been present for 
almost all of the tine hes had it. This means the car wasnt performing as expected, and that 
Mr T has suffered a loss of enjoyment whilst driving it. Ive taken the impact of this on Mr T 
int account and Im of the view that he should receive a 5% refund of all monthly payments 
hes made.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr TRefund the deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Refund 5% of all monthly payments to reflect impaired use/loss of enjoyment
Pay £100 for distress and inconvenience 
Remove the agreement from Mr Ts credit file  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman