DRN-3192068
The complaint
Mrs G complains about Fairmead Insurance Limiteds handling of her buildings insurance
claim for damage caused by an escape of water.  
What happened
Mrs G made a claim to Fairmead in January 2020 following a leak discovered in the subfloor
of her kitchen. Mrs G arranged for her own contractor to trace, access and repair the
leak.
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to validate and assess the claim and a site visit was
carried out in February 2020. The loss adjuster asked Mrs G to get quotes for the repairs
and to let it know the cost for the trace and access. Mrs G submitted an invoice for her
plumber whod carried out the trace, access and repair for £989. Fairmead asked Mrs G to
ask the plumber to provide a breakdown of his costs to make sure that it was only being
asked to pay for the trace and access and not the repair of the leak (as per the policy terms).
Mrs G also sent Fairmead two quotes from her own tradesmen for the repairs. They were for
£4,890 and £4,370 respectively and included the replacement of the whole kitchen and
flooring. The loss adjuster contacted Mrs G to say that only her kitchen sink unit had been
damaged so it asked her to get her tradesmen to provide a breakdown of their estimates so
the claim could be progressed. It wanted to know the cost to replace the damaged flooring,
the price for the damaged sink unit and the fitting costs.
The loss adjuster also continued to chase Mrs Gs plumber for a breakdown of the trace,
access and repair cost so that this element of the claim could be settled. That information
was provided at the end of March 2020 (the trace and access costs amounted to £822 out of
the £989 charged). The loss adjuster chased Mrs Gs preferred contractor again in mid-May
to ask for a breakdown of the costs on the repair estimate. When the information still wasnt
received, the loss adjuster asked Mrs G if she would like it to arrange for one of Fairmeads
contractors to scope and cost the repairs, to which she agreed.
At the end of July 2020, Fairmeads contractor said it was necessary to appoint an asbestos
specialist; the work to remove it being completed by mid-August 2020. Having reviewed the
scope and costings provided by Fairmeads contractor, the loss adjuster then made Mrs G
an offer to cash settle her claim for £2,126.84 inclusive of VAT.
Mrs G wasnt happy with what she was offered by Fairmead or the fact her claim was taking
so long, so she complained. Fairmead looked into Mrs Gs complaint and issued its final
response letter in September 2020. It said that only one kitchen unit had been damaged. It
said that the policy terms stipulated that where a specific item of a matching set was
damaged it wouldnt pay to replace the undamaged items in a set (such as the rest of the
kitchen units).
Fairmead said itd reviewed the claim and that all the claim related costs had been covered
within the cash settlement offered to Mrs G but as a gesture of goodwill it would increase the
amount offered by 20% (equating to £425.37) to £2,552.21. Fairmead said it was sorry that
Mrs G had cause to complain but the lack of response from her contractor coupled with the
pandemic meant the delays in her claim had been unavoidable.
Mrs G said that Fairmeads revised offer still wasnt enough for her to complete the repairs
so she wouldnt accept it. Mrs G made a complaint to this service. Before one of our
investigators was able to look at it, Fairmead increased its offer to Mrs G to over £4,000 and
Mrs G completed the necessary repairs in December 2020. She told our investigator that
she had not been able to replace the kitchen floor tiles because shed had to use the claim
settlement money to have the walls re-plastered after the asbestos had been removed.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Gs complaint and recommended that it was upheld. She
said the delay in dealing with it inconvenienced Mrs G so Fairmead should pay her
compensation of £750. She also said that Mrs G should provide 3 estimates to replace the
vinyl kitchen floor tiles and that Fairmead should cash settle at the lowest. And finally she
recommended that Fairmead arrange for the lounge to be inspected and any restoration
works carried out as soon as possible.
Fairmead responded to say it didnt think the complaint should be upheld or that any redress
was due. It also provided evidence that it had paid a cash settlement (of £2,540) in May
2021 for the damage caused to the living room that was only discovered after Mrs G moved
her sofa; Mrs G confirmed to our investigator that this was indeed the case. Mrs G said that
the damage caused to her kitchen wall hadnt been included in any cash settlement though
because shed only recently become aware of it.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 
recommending that the complaint was upheld in part. I made the following provisional 
findings: 
Mrs G complained to Fairmead about the cash settlement shed received and about the
delays in the handling of her claim. I have to decide whether Fairmead has treated Mrs G
fairly and reasonably in the way it has settled her claim and I have to say that I think it has.
However, I also think that it caused her some avoidable inconvenience for which I think she
should be compensated.
The basis for settling a claim is set out in the policy terms and conditions. There it says that
Fairmead has the option to carry out a repair or to cash settle a claim and, if electing to do
the latter, the cash settlement will be based on the cost its own contractors would charge.
Here I can see that Fairmead asked Mrs G if she could get some repair estimates on which it
could base its cash settlement but that, ultimately, she was unable to provide any in the
detail Fairmead needed. Not unreasonably, Fairmead asked its own contractors to scope
and cost the repairs. I can see they did this in August 2020. I can also see that the policy
provides cover for the cost incurred in tracing and accessing a leak.
Fairmead has told us that it paid Mrs G the following amounts. Firstly, it says it paid Mrs G
£822 for the cost she incurred in engaging a plumber to trace and access a leak. I can see
Mrs Gs plumber sent her an invoice for £989 of which £167 was attributable to the cost of
repairing the leaking pipe (not covered by the policy). So I think that Fairmead has fairly
settled this aspect of Mrs Gs claim.
I can then see that Fairmead paid Mrs G £4,090.81 in early November 2020 in settlement of
her claim. Of this £44.71 was for additional electricity used and the remainder was for the
initial reinstatement works and included 50% towards the cost of replacing the undamaged
kitchen units, inclusive of VAT. Ive seen a copy of the works scoped by Fairmeads
contractor in August 2020 and note that it included an allowance to replace the vinyl kitchen
floor tiles. So, whilst I note that Mrs G says she hasnt been able to replace the floor tiles Ican see that Fairmead has included them within the cash settlement offered and so has
indemnified Mrs G for them. I cant reasonably ask it to do so again; that wouldnt be fair.
And whilst the amount of £4,090.81 didnt include an allowance for any damage to the
lounge/diner, I note that when the loss adjuster first visited in February 2020, she reported
that there was no visible damage to that room. Consequently, it hadnt been included in the
scope of works. I understand that it wasnt until much later, when Mrs G moved her sofa, that
this damage was discovered. Mrs G contacted Fairmead again and a further visit from the
loss adjuster took place.
I can see that within a week of our investigator issuing her view in May 2021, Fairmead paid
Mrs G a further £2,540 for the redecoration of her lounge/diner.
I think that Fairmead has settled Mrs Gs claim fairly and reasonably and in line with the
policy terms. I cant agree that Fairmead should be required to pay Mrs G an amount so she
can replace the vinyl kitchen floor tiles because I can see its already done so. And I can also
see that Fairmead has settled Mrs Gs claim for damage to her lounge/diner. So I cant
reasonably require it to pay her any more for this damage.
But I do think that Fairmead caused a short, avoidable delay for which it should pay Mrs G
some compensation. All insurance claims come with a certain degree of inconvenience,
thats to be expected. But where an insurer, through its words or deeds, makes an already
stressful situation worse, this service can require it to pay compensation to a consumer.
Here I can see that the delays associated with the claim through the spring and early
summer were because Fairmead was waiting for Mrs Gs contractors to provide a
breakdown of the goods and services included within their quotes. Its not unreasonable for
an insurer to seek such information because it needs to be sure that its only paying for
insured damage. The quotes Ive seen were unspecific so I can see why Fairmead asked
Mrs Gs contractors to provide it with a breakdown of what was included.
And I can see that Fairmead repeatedly chased for the contractors through this period in an
effort to get the information to settle the claim. Ultimately, Fairmead decided it could wait no
more and, with Mrs Gs consent, it appointed its own contractors to scope and cost the
repairs. But the delays up to this point cant reasonably be said to have been the fault of
Fairmead.
The scope was completed in early August at which point Fairmead offered Mrs G its first
cash settlement. Ultimately though, it wasnt until after Mrs G had made a complaint to this
service that Fairmead paid her a fair cash settlement that included 50% towards the
undamaged kitchen units (in effect the settlement it offered her was doubled). In its final
response letter I can see that Fairmead told Mrs G it was relying on the policy terms so as
not to pay towards the undamaged matching units. This was despite Fairmead being aware
of this services well-established approach to matching sets, and the recommendation of its
own loss adjuster as early as March 2020, that the settlement should include an allowance
of 50% for the undamaged units.
From what Ive seen, Fairmead was in possession of all the information it needed to offer
Mrs G a fair cash settlement in early August 2020. I cant see that anything changed
thereafter. But it took Fairmead a further three months  and a complaint from Mrs G  to
offer Mrs G a fair settlement for the damage to her kitchen. I think this three-month delay
was entirely avoidable. And I can see that Mrs G was put to some inconvenience by having
to use her upstairs bathroom in order to bring water down to her kitchen throughout this
period. If Fairmead had fully settled Mrs Gs claim promptly then she couldve been spared
this inconvenience.Taking all the circumstances into account, along with this services general approach to
compensation awards, I think that Fairmead should pay Mrs G compensation of £500 for the
avoidable inconvenience its delay in fully settling her claim caused her.
Whilst I can see that Fairmead settled Mrs Gs claim for damage to her lounge/diner in May
2021 it appears from what Ive seen that this element of the claim took this long to settle
because Mrs G didnt discover the damage until she moved her sofa at a much later date.
And, as Ive noted, when the loss adjuster first attended she reported no damage to the
lounge. So it doesnt seem to me that the delay in Fairmead paying this aspect of Mrs Gs
claim was an avoidable one. That said, if either party has any evidence in relation to this
specific issue then they should provide it to this service when responding to this provisional
decision.
Mrs G replied to say that shed just wanted a proper apology from Fairmead but had never 
received one. She said it wasnt about the money. And she said she didnt have the energy 
to add anything further due to ill health. 
Fairmead replied to say that it didnt think any redress was due to Mrs G. It said: 
Its loss adjuster had been very proactive about chasing Mrs G and her contractor for the 
breakdown of the quotes;
Its loss adjuster contacted Mrs G regularly to update her about her claim and could do no 
more as its hands were tied;
Its loss adjuster had offered Fairmeads contractors to Mrs G on numerous occasions so 
the claim could be progressed but she rejected its offers;
Its loss adjuster did eventually appoint its own contractor  with Mrs Gs agreement;
The contractor noted the property was in a very poor state of repair with many unrelated 
claim repairs required;
Subsequent damage to the living room wall was reviewed and settled and Mrs G was 
fully indemnified;
That Mrs Gs daughter fell on the kitchen floor because Mrs Gs contractor hadnt filled in 
holes created during the trace and access works;
It was including a further timeline for my review. 
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the responses both Mrs G and Fairmead have provided to my provisional 
decision, however, nothing either has said has caused me to change my provisional findings. 
Im sorry to hear that Mrs G is experiencing ill health and that all she wanted was an apology 
from Fairmead. I cant see that she has previously said that she is seeking an apology and, 
as I said provisionally, I think that Fairmead has settled her claim fairly and reasonably and 
in line with the policy terms. But for the trouble and upset the short, avoidable delay caused 
her, I said it should pay her some compensation. I still remain of that view. 
Ive thought too about the points made by Fairmead in response to my provisional decision 
and which Ive listed out above. But Fairmead made all these points previously, and they 
were addressed by me provisionally. I previously stated that it was reasonable for Fairmead 
to seek a breakdown of Mrs Gs quotes. I can also see that it contacted her regularly to chase the information it needed and that it offered her its own contractor. None of these 
issues underscore why I think it should pay compensation to Mrs G. As I explained 
provisionally, I think it should pay Mrs G compensation of £500 because it was in a position 
to offer Mrs G a fair cash settlement in August 2020 but didnt do so for a further three 
months and that Mrs G was caused some inconvenience as a consequence. Nothing 
Fairmead has said in response to my provisional decision has caused me to change my 
mind about that. 
Ive noted what it said about Mrs Gs daughter falling but that didnt form part of my 
provisional findings in any event. 
Ive looked at the timeline Fairmead has provided. My decision to award Mrs G 
compensation is based on Fairmeads actions from early August onwards so, only the latter 
part of the timeline is of significance as, up to this point, I dont think Fairmead did anything 
to cause Mrs G any trouble or upset. And having reviewed the timeline I cant see that it 
contains any new information about that period of the claim that wasnt previously available 
to me as part of Fairmeads file. So, as the timeline contains no new information, and as Id 
considered the evidence within it before issuing my provisional decision, it hasnt caused me 
to change my mind. My provisional findings about Mrs Gs complaint now form part of this, 
my final decision. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I gave provisionally, and which now form part of this, my final decision, 
Fairmead should pay Mrs G compensation of £500 for the avoidable inconvenience the three 
month delay in settling her claim in full caused her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Fairmead Insurance 
Limited to take the steps Ive set out in the putting things right section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman