DRN-4210721
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard has treated him unfairly 
in relation to a purchase he made using his credit card.
What happened
In May 2022 Mr M used his Barclaycard credit card to buy an item at an auction held by a 
third party Ill refer to as T. Mr M tells us that the item was advertised in the auction 
brochure as weighing a certain weight but instead it weighed less. Further, Mr M indicates 
that had he have known the correct weight of the item he would have bid less for it. Mr M 
considers that there was a misrepresentation for which T is responsible (a misrepresentation 
in this context is a false statement of fact on which Mr M relied to his detriment). 
Mr M contacted T. Mr M asked that it refund him the difference between what he paid for the 
item and what he thinks it was worth. Mr M tells us T declined his offer, but it was prepared 
to offer him a full refund should he return the item to it. Mr M declined this offer. Mr M tells us 
T would only speak to him by phone, so he has no written record of its response. 
Dissatisfied with Ts response Mr M turned to Barclaycard instead to put things right. Mr M 
relies on the rights he believes he has against Barclaycard because he used his credit card 
with it to make the purchase. Specifically, Mr M relies on Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (Section 75). The general effect of Section 75 is that if Mr M has a claim for 
misrepresentation or breach of contract against the supplier of the goods he can also bring a 
like claim against Barclaycard provided certain conditions are met. 
Mr M expected Barclaycard to uphold his claim under Section 75 based on the facts of his 
case but also because a third party credit card provider upheld a similar complaint he had 
against it. Moreover, Mr M had talked to different third party credit card provider with whom 
he also has a credit card account, and it had told him given these circumstances it would 
uphold his complaint. Moreover, T had taken a premium charge from him and a 
commission from the owner of the item, which he suggests shows that the supplier for the 
purposes of Section 75 is T. Mr M specifically said he was not asking Barclaycard to raise a 
chargeback for him, (Ill explain what a chargeback is in the what Ive decided and why 
section below).
Barclaycard declined to uphold Mr Ms complaint on the basis that it did not agree Mr Ms 
claim met the conditions of Section 75. In particular, Section 75 requires that there has to be 
a specific agreement in place, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. Under this agreement 
Mr M must be the debtor, Barclaycard the creditor and T the supplier. However, in this 
instance Barclaycard indicated that the owner of the goods was also the vendor was the 
supplier for the purposes of Section 75, not T. Therefore, it followed Mr M had no valid claim 
against it based on Section 75.
Mr M rejected Barclaycards response and complained to this service.
Once Mr Ms complaint was with us Barclaycard repeated its earlier stance, it also added Mr 
M has provided nothing to show how much the item weighed. It also pointed out that Mr M 
says the weight he was given for the item was the combined weight of the item and a second 
item that was in it. However, Ts auction brochure would have had photos of the item Mr M 
bought and the item that was in it, therefore it does not agree that there was any 
misrepresentation in any event.
Mr M meanwhile pointed out that Barclaycard had not mentioned to him in its final response 
that it disputed whether there had been any misrepresentation in relation to the item he 
bought. He repeated what he said about the response of his two third party credit card 
providers to respectively, a past and hypothetical claim under Section 75. Mr M also 
suggested that the card scheme rules that apply to his credit card with Barclaycard also 
assisted his stance in this complaint.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Our investigator did not recommend 
that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
Barclaycard accepted this recommendation, Mr M did not. Mr M repeated that there is a 
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship here that gives him a valid claim against Barclaycard. 
This is because as far as he is concerned T sold the item to him therefore it is the supplier 
for the purposes of Section 75. In the alternative, Mr M also suggested that if the claim is not 
covered by Barclaycard for the purposes of Section 75, then it should be covered by the card 
scheme operator for his credit card namely Visa.
Mr M asked that an ombudsman review his complaint. Mr Ms complaint was sent to me. 
Having considered the available evidence, I was not minded to uphold the complaint, but I 
thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision as my reasons for not 
upholding his complaint were not quite the same as our investigators. Therefore, I issued a 
provisional decision and Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms 
part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided - and why
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant regulations, 
law, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Here relevant law 
and regulations include but are not limited to Section 75 and the relevant rules about 
chargeback. Ill look at each in turn.
Section 75
In order for Mr M to have a valid claim under Section 75 there would need to be a relevant 
debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place. Here I think no such agreement exists, Mr M 
made his credit card payment to T, but his contract was with the owner of the item who was 
the vendor. I say this because it is clear from Ts terms and conditions that T acted as the 
agent of the vendor in respect of the sale of the item. Moreover, in order to contract Mr M as 
the buyer had to accept not only did he contract with the vendor but any cause of action he 
had in relation to the sale of the item would lie against the vendor only. Specifically Ts terms 
and conditions said.The Buyer acknowledges that any liability arising under these terms and conditions of sale 
and purchase is the liability of the Vendor only and not that of the Auctioneers.
The payment by Mr M of a premium charge to T and the payment of a commission to T by 
the vendor (which is assumed as Ive not seen evidence of this) do not mean that Mr M 
entered into a contract of sale with T in its own right or at all. That said the payment of the 
premium charge may mean that Mr M and T entered into a contract in relation to the 
services it was meant to provide in consideration of the premium charge but crucially that 
contract was not the contract for sale for the item. Or it might simply be that it was a 
condition of the contract sale that Mr M make a payment to T as a third party. Either way I 
dont need to consider this further as it does not go to the crux of this matter.
I am not persuaded by what Mr M has told us about his previous successful claim against a 
third party credit card supplier. Neither am I persuaded by the response of the other third 
party credit card supplier to a hypothetical question. I dont know the circumstances of the 
previous complaint. Neither do I know what hypothetical question was put to the third party 
credit card supplier. But I just mention those points in passing. I have to decide this 
complaint on the basis of its individual merits alone, so those two scenarios, whatever the 
details, are irrelevant here.
Mr Ms credit card scheme operator has no liability to Mr M under Section 75 under any 
proper reading of that provision. Section 75 talks about the liability of the creditor, the credit 
card scheme operator is not the creditor. Plus Ive no power to make any finding against the 
card scheme operator in this complaint. Therefore I dont need to look at this line of 
argument any further.
For all of these individual reasons, it follows since there is no valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement here, it is not fair or reasonable to say Barclaycard has to put things right when I 
take into account the operation of Section 75.
Ill add the following for completeness. Even if I thought there was a relevant debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement here, which I dont, Id still say I had no proper basis to uphold this part 
of Mr Ms complaint. This is because he has not demonstrated as he would need to do, that 
there was a misrepresentation. Ive not seen what representations were made about the 
item, neither has Mr M demonstrated that those representations were inaccurate merely 
saying they were untrue is not sufficient by itself. 
Further even if inaccurate information had been supplied about the item, Ts terms and 
conditions say the vendor is responsible for this. Moreover, its very possible that Ts position 
as the vendors agent would mean that it was not responsible for supplying untrue 
information to Mr M. 
Mr M may think that Barclaycard did not raise the issue of misrepresentation, but it did, albeit 
only once the complaint came to us. But Barclaycard is entitled to do this. And in any event, 
even if it had not raised this issue, I would not have been able to uphold this part of this 
complaint unless I was satisfied that a misrepresentation had been made.
Chargeback
Chargeback is a process which in some very specific circumstances allows customers to ask 
for a transaction to be reversed if there is a problem with goods or services that they have 
paid for using a credit card. Id expect Barclaycard to consider a chargeback if appropriate 
even if Mr M thought it was not necessary,
Chargebacks are dealt with under the relevant card scheme rules There is no automatic right 
to a chargeback. But we consider it is good practice for a financial business to consider 
carrying out a chargeback if its customer asked it to do this or if the circumstances indicated 
it should carry out a chargeback, provided that there is fair chance the chargeback will be 
successful.If I am to order Barclaycard to refund all or part of the cost of the goods, I must be satisfied 
that it acted incorrectly when I take account of the chargeback regulations. 
This is an instance where I dont think it would have been appropriate to proceed with a 
chargeback. It is not clear whether chargeback is available to use in these circumstances. 
But even if it is, the chargeback would have failed because T offered a full refund if Mr M 
agreed to return the item.
provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Mr M rejected my provisional decision, as far as I am aware Barclaycard sent no response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr M for his response to my provisional decision. I have received no new information 
nor arguments in response to my provisional decision. It follows that Ive reached the same 
conclusions for the same reasons as I set out in my provisional decision which forms part of 
this final decision
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman