DRN-4327348
The complaint
Mrs W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed her credit card account without notice.
What happened
Mrs W held a credit card account with HSBC. The bank decided to close the account in 
September 2021, it says it did so because Mrs W had missed her repayments on several 
occasions. HSBC explained that its terms and conditions allow it to take such action in those 
circumstances.
 
In 2023, Mrs W complained about HSBCs decision to close her credit card account. She 
said that she hadnt been informed at the time that her account had been closed, or why. 
She was also unhappy, more broadly, with the level of service shed received. Lastly, Mrs W 
said that  had she known her account had been closed  she wouldve simply carried on 
making her minimum repayments until the debt was repaid, rather than repaying the balance 
in full as she had done in February 2023.
 
In response, HSBC accepted that it hadnt followed due process by not writing to Mrs W in 
2021 when it decided to close her account. It also agreed that it had given Mrs W some 
wrong information. So, overall, it acknowledged that it couldve handled things better. HSBC 
apologised for what had happened, and it offered Mrs W £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience. 
Mrs W remained unhappy, so she contacted our Service for an independent review. An 
Investigator here looked at what had happened and, while she understood Mrs Ws 
frustration at events, she didnt think HSBC needed to do anything more. 
In summary, our Investigator said:
HSBC had, in fact, informed Mrs W in 2021 that her account had been closed. That 
information was provided during a phone call, which Mrs W had made to the bank to 
request a new card. 
With that in mind, Mrs W was aware of the banks decision and had enough 
information  from November 2021  to determine how she wanted to repay what 
she owed. 
More generally, HSBC was entitled to take a commercial decision on whether to keep 
providing Mrs W with a credit card. Such decisions arent events that our Service 
would seek to interfere with. 
£100 compensation was enough, in the circumstances, to compensate Mrs W for the 
inconvenience shed experienced. 
Mrs W disagreed, and she asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She reiterated that she 
wouldnt have paid off this credit card had things been clearer. Instead, she wouldve used 
that money to service other debt, carrying a higher interest rate, elsewhere. Mrs W also said 
she didnt think £100 was enough compensation.
 
So, as no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, its worth recognising that its clear HSBC couldve done better here. Theres 
no dispute about that. As far as I can see, the bank accepts its failings and knows that it did 
cause Mrs W some inconvenience.
 
That said, Im not persuaded that Mrs W was caused a financial loss because HSBC didnt 
correctly tell her the credit card had been closed. Ill explain why.
 
Ive been provided with recordings of calls between Mrs W and HSBC from November 2021, 
around two months after the bank closed the credit card. The closure of the credit card 
account is quite clearly discussed. So, even though some specific detail about the reasons 
why may have been lacking, Im satisfied that Mrs W was aware in November 2021  at 
least at a high level  that her account had been closed.
It follows, then, that I cant agree that Mrs W didnt have enough information available to her 
to decide whether to continue paying her minimum contractual repayment, until shed repaid 
her debt, or do something different.
 
Mrs W has, quite understandably, questioned why her account still appeared to function after 
HSBC had closed it. She continued to receive statements until 2023  when she repaid the 
balance  and has also said that she could see her credit limit appeared, at least on the face 
of it, to be available. 
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of the credit card, HSBC set out that if it (or, for 
that matter, the customer) ends the agreement, the terms will remain in place until 
everything borrowed has been repaid. Thats just what happened here, and it would seem to 
explain why Mrs W continued to receive monthly statements as usual. Ill add that there was 
no apparent risk of Mrs W being able to make use of the remaining credit, however, because 
HSBC wouldnt send her a new card, given the account had closed.
 
For completeness, Ill also echo what our Investigator said about HSBCs decision to close 
Mrs Ws account. That being, its generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to 
provide, or to continue to provide, facilities to any particular customer  and not something 
for our Service to interfere with.
 
I can, though, determine if the bank acted fairly in reaching such a decision. From what Ive 
seen, HSBC closed Mrs Ws credit card account because she missed repayments on 
several occasions. The terms and conditions which governed the account allowed HSBC to 
take such action in those circumstances. So, overall, I cant fairly say the bank did something 
wrong there.
 
In any event, aside from what Ive said above, the fact remains that HSBC did handle some 
things poorly. Although it did tell Mrs W in a phone call that her account had been closed, it 
was Mrs W who had made that call; the bank hadnt reached out to her directly, nor had it 
written to her to let her know about its decision. Thats something HSBC should have done. 
Moreover, HSBC gave Mrs W wrong information about why her account had been closed. And while I dont agree that Mrs W was caused a financial loss as a result of HSBCs 
mistakes, all of that combined would no doubt have been frustrating and certainly 
inconvenient. So, I think compensation is appropriate here and, to that end, I consider 
HSBCs offer of £100 to be a fair and reasonable amount. 
As I understand it, HSBC hasnt yet paid anything to Mrs W. So, it follows that I now require 
the bank to pay Mrs W £100 compensation as it offered to do.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay Mrs W £100 to settle the complaint, 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should now pay Mrs W £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman