Page 1 of 2The complaint
Ms G complains about the way Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys) handled a loan debt.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and largely not in dispute, so 
Ill only summarise it here:
Ms G held a loan with Sainsburys. Following financial difficulties she fell behind on
her loan repayments. This went into arrears and collection agencies were appointed
to recover the debt.
Ms G complained, saying it had inundated with paperwork. and due to her financial
situation and personal circumstances worsening, her mental health was suffering.
Shed asked Sainsburys to write off the debt and offer compensation for the stress
the situation had caused.
In its final response dated 23 April 2021 Sainsburys explained the nature of the
letters it had sent Ms G, saying it was obliged to send them to comply with relevant
legislation.
It encouraged Ms G to contact its specialist team who deal with customers in
vulnerable circumstances for advice and support.
It advised this team could discuss the request to write off the debt and advised that
any request would need to be supported by medical evidence of her current
circumstances and ongoing prognosis.
Ms G was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator explained that her scope to consider this complaint was limited to
Sainsburys actions up until its final response letter and wouldnt include matters
previously considered by Sainsburys in 2018.
She noted the collection agency hadnt shared the information it held about Ms Gs
circumstances with Sainsburys. So felt Sainsburys had acted reasonably in
requiring up to date information about Ms Gs circumstances. And explained shed
expect Sainsburys to consider that information and that if Ms G remained dissatisfied
DRN-3492040Page 2 of 2after Sainsburys had time to consider the information Ms G could raise a new 
complaint with this service.
Ms G remained unhappy and asked that an ombudsman decide her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with our investigators view, and for the same reasons.
I appreciate Ms G has strong feelings on his case and has provided considerable testimony 
and background information. If I dont mention a particular point shes made it isnt because I 
havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel it necessary to reference it to 
explain my decision. I hope Ms G doesnt take this as a discourtesy, its just a reflection of 
the informal nature of our service.
Ms G believes Sainsburys have mishandled her account and feels it has all the information 
it needs to enable it to agree to write off her debt. 
In circumstances such as those Ms G is faced with Id expect a business to treat a customer 
positively and sympathetically. From what Ive seen in this case Sainsburys have done that. 
It has said it is happy to carry out a further review and discuss the options available. And as 
the information it holds isnt recent so doesnt give an insight into Ms Gs long term prognosis 
and theres nothing to suggest she would be incapable of returning to work. Im satisfied its 
reasonable for Sainsburys to request up to date information to consider this further.
Ms G has raised issues about the actions of the debt collection agency, but as our 
investigator has said this is outside of the scope of the complaint Im considering. 
On balance, based on everything Ive seen Im satisfied in the circumstances of this case 
that Sainsburys have acted reasonably and I wont be directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons above my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman