DRN-3536370
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that First Holiday Finance Ltd (FHF) has unfairly turned 
down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs T took out a trial timeshare membership from a timeshare provider in March 
2011. Under that trial membership they were entitled to take five weeks of holiday over a 34 
month period. They paid for their trial membership by taking a loan from FHF for £3,995.
In October 2011, Mr and Mrs T traded in their trial membership and took out a different sort 
of membership from the same timeshare provider. This happened on a weeklong holiday 
that did not form part of the trial membership. FHF say the loan they provided to pay for the 
trial membership was settled in November 2012, so its relationship with Mr and Mrs T ended 
then.
In March 2021, Mr and Mrs T made a claim to FHF under sections 75 and 140A CCA, but 
FHF turned down their claim. In May 2021 Mr and Mrs T, using a professional representative 
(SW), brought a complaint to our service about FHFs decision to turn down their claim.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint, but thought much of what was being 
complained about related to the second purchase that took place in October 2011. So she 
asked SW to confirm what it was they said went wrong with the purchase of the trial 
membership.
SW argued that the benefits of the trial membership were false, namely that Mr and Mrs T 
could test drive full membership without committing to a more expensive membership. That 
was because, as part of the conditions of the trial membership, before Mr and Mrs T could 
take their five weeks of holidays they had to attend a prelude week, which was an additional 
week of holiday that included a sales presentation. It was on this extra week that Mr and 
Mrs T took out a different type of membership in October 2011. SW argued that trial 
membership was sold with the deliberate intention of promoting a different product, which 
was contrary to the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUTR). 
It was said that the trial membership sale must be considered alongside the sale of the later 
membership.
Our investigator explained that the evidence suggested that Mr and Mrs T applied for a loan 
from FHF in October 2011 to pay for the full membership, but that loan was never put in 
place and they paid for their membership by other means. So she would only look into the 
sale of the trial membership and not consider anything that happened in October 2011. 
Having looked at all of the evidence, she did not think there was the evidence to suggest that 
FHF should have accepted any claim under either s.75 or s.140A CCA.
SW disagreed with the view and also said there was no availability for Mr and Mrs T under 
the trial membership, so there was a breach of contract. They also said this service has 
considered complaints raised about the product sold in October 2011, so they said that sale 
needed to be reviewed too. As Mr and Mrs T did not agree with the view, their complaint was 
passed to me for a decision.
Having considered everything, I issued a provisional decision. That was because I came to 
the same overall outcome as our investigator, but for different reasons. I explained that I 
thought there were several claims that Mr and Mrs T made to FHF and I considered each in 
turn.
The s.75 CCA claim in relation to the trial membership sale
Mr and Mrs T said that there was a breach of contract because there was no availability for 
holidays. This was said in response to our investigators view and I could not see that it was 
raised before. I was not convinced that there was a valid claim for two reasons.
First, as set out above, before Mr and Mrs T could take their five weeks trial holidays they 
had to attend a prelude week, which they did in October. So it looked like they used their 
trial membership in the way intended and I had not been provided with any evidence that 
they could not book holidays.
However, even if I had been provided with evidence that showed Mr and Mrs T had been 
unable to book under their trial membership, I thought any claim would have been made too 
late. Under s.9 of the Limitation Act 1980 (LA), Mr and Mrs T had six years to make a claim 
under s.75 CCA. As the trial membership agreement came to an end in October 2011, any 
breach of that agreement must have happened before that date. But they did not make a 
claim until March 2021, which was outside of the limitation period.
I also considered whether any of these concerns could amount to misrepresentations that 
induced Mr and Mrs T to take out trial membership. But, again, any misrepresentation claim 
had to be brought within six years of the date Mr and Mrs T say they lost out, so in this case 
the date of sale. However, the claim was again raised outside of that period, so I did not 
think FHF would have acted unfairly in turning down any claim.
The s.140A CCA claim in relation to the trial membership sale
While only a court has the power to make a determination under section 140A, as it is 
relevant law, I explained that I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and 
reasonable outcome. Part of that consideration could be whether the timeshare provider 
breached the CPUTR which, in turn, had the effect of rendering the related credit agreement 
unfair.
However, FHF said that Mr and Mrs T repaid their loan in November 2012 and, therefore, 
the debtor-creditor relationship came to an end then too.
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under section 140A. And 
under s. 9 LA, Mr and Mrs T had to make their claim within six years of when the loan 
ended. But as the claim was made in March 2021, it was made outside of the time limit that 
applied.
So I did not think FHF acted unfairly in turning down Mr and Mrs Ts claims arising from the 
sale of the trial membership.
Mr and Mrs Ts claims arising from the sale of the timeshare in October 2011I saw that Mr and Mrs T applied for a loan from FHF to pay for the timeshare they took out in 
October 2011. However, FHF explained that the loan was never drawn down and Mr and 
Mrs T funded the purchase by other means.
Mr and Mrs T had not provided any evidence that they actually used a FHF loan to pay for 
the timeshare, so I had no reason to doubt what FHF has said.
I could not see how FHF could be liable for anything that went wrong arising from the sale of 
the timeshare in October 2011, as the credit it provided was only used to fund the purchase 
of the earlier trial membership. 
So I did not think FHF needed to do anything further following Mr and Mrs Ts claim. But I 
invited both parties to provide me any further evidence or arguments they felt were relevant.
Responses to my provisional decision
SW responded to say Mr and Mrs T disagreed with my provisional decision. 
SW said that, under the rules the Financial Ombudsman Service operates, a consumer has 
either six years to bring a complaint about an event from the date the event happened. But 
they also had a further three years from the point in time they knew or ought reasonably to 
have known that they had cause for complaint (Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook  
DISP 2.8.2). Here Mr and Mrs T say they first became aware they had cause for complaint in 
2020 when they took legal advice from SW.
Mr and Mrs T said that, although they realised something had gone wrong with their 
timeshare, they were not aware that could have made the relationship with FHF unfair or that 
they had cause for complaint against FHF. So they argue that, as they brought a complaint 
within three years of when they realised they could do so, our service has jurisdiction to 
consider the complaint.
I was referred to the relevant sections of the CCA and also to the Unfair Terms in Consumer 
Contracts Regulations 1999 (UTCCR). Based on these, it was argued that the contractual 
terms that set out the fees and charges, as well as the consequences of not paying those 
charges, would likely be found unfair by a court. And Mr and Mrs T having their membership 
rights forfeited without compensation was disproportionate and unfair.1 In addition, it was 
said that insufficient information was provided and, when weighing everything up, a court 
would likely find the debtor-creditor relationship unfair under s.140A CCA. Further, it was 
said that the timeshare supplier did not comply with the Timeshare Regulations.2
FHF responded to say it had nothing further to add to my provisional decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
1 For the reasons I will come on to, I will not make any finding on these issues. But I note that Mr and 
Mrs T took out a trial membership and traded it in to take out a second membership. I do not think 
they paid any fees and charges under a trial membership, nor do I think their rights were forfeited 
without compensation as their trial membership was used towards a different type of membership.
2 Mr and Mrs Ts representatives have not said which regulations they say applied, however I have 
thought about both the Timeshare Regulations 1997 and the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale 
and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision. 
I will also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reaching a fair and reasonable 
outcome. So although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not 
address every point that has been raised.
I think it may be helpful for me to set out our jurisdiction to determine complaints and how 
that interacts with the legal claims Mr and Mrs T have made. Here Mr and Mrs T made 
claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA, so I will deal with each in turn.
SW has pointed to the DISP Rules and how those rules deal with the time limits in which a 
consumer can bring a complaint about a regulated financial activity. But I also need to 
consider the LA, which deals with the time limits in which a legal claim can be made. These 
two sets of rules and legislation are different considerations, dealing with different things, so 
they should not be confused or conflated. Here I think the complaints brought to our service 
were made in time (applying the DISP rules), but the legal claims that were the subject of the 
complaints were made too late (applying the LA).
Considering a claim made under s.75 CCA is a regulated activity. That claim was made in 
March 2021 and turned down by FHF shortly after. Mr and Mrs T referred their complaint 
about the outcome of the claim to our service in May 2021, so well within the six years to do 
so as set out in DISP 2.8.2. However, that does not mean the age of the s.75 CCA claim 
itself is irrelevant. As I set out in my provisional decision, any breach of this contract must 
have happened by October 2011 and any misrepresentation would have been made in 
March 2011. Under the limitation periods set out in the LA, both of those claims needed to 
be brought within six years of the cause of action accruing. As they were not, FHF did not 
need to consider the substance of the s.75 CCA claims.
When the complaint was brought that FHF was party to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship 
with Mr and Mrs T, that related to the regulated activity of FHF exercising its rights to 
repayment and interest in the credit relationship. So our service has the jurisdiction to 
consider a complaint that the acts and omissions of FHF led to an unfair relationship 
between it and Mr and Mrs T. Further, I agree that Mr and Mrs T were unlikely to have 
appreciated that FHF could have been responsible for the problems they say they 
experienced with the timeshare until they took legal advice, so I think they did make that 
complaint within the period set out in DISP 2.8.2.
So I have thought about the complaint that Mr and Mrs T have made. And that complaint is 
that the relationship between themselves and FHF was unfair as set out in s.140A CCA, 
taking into consideration the related timeshare agreement as well as the CPUTR, UTCCR 
and Timeshare Regulations. However, that compliant is a legal one and so I must also 
consider FHFs legal position. Here, the loan FHF granted was repaid in November 2012, 
which I explained in my provisional decision meant FHF had a defence to any s.140A CCA 
claim under the provisions of the LA. It follows, I do not think a court would be able to make 
a finding of unfairness under s.140A CCA, and so I do not think it would be fair to tell FHF to 
do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint against First Holiday Finance Ltd.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman