DRN-3924953
The complaint
Mr S complains about a hold eBay Commerce UK Ltd placed on his funds after he sold an 
item online. 
What happened
In late 2022, Mr S complained to eBay after it said it had placed a hold on funds received for 
an item hed sold online.
Mr S says eBay told him it would hold the funds for at least two weeks after his buyer had 
made the payment. He says hed had confirmation from the buyer that the item had been 
received and no dispute had been raised by them.
eBay didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint, so he referred it to our service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Ss concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied eBay 
had acted in line with its payments terms of use.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said he couldnt be expected to recall the 
intricate details of eBays terms and conditions, which were lengthy and not in plain English. 
He said if hed been given a reminder that the funds would or may have been held, he would 
have considered selling via another forum. Mr S also commented that eBay didnt provide a 
comprehensive or detailed response to his complaint. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
eBay says Mr S agreed to its Payments Terms of Use on 24 July 2021. These say:
We reserve the right to manage the risks associated with providing you the Payment 
Services, by placing restrictions on your access to your funds when deemed necessary, as 
described in further detail below. You agree that we may place holds on your funds or 
instruct a payment service provider to hold your funds, prior to disbursement
The Payment Terms of Use links to eBays holds help page which contains further 
information including:
New or infrequent sellers will experience transaction holds while learning best 
selling practices. This helps sellers become established and build a strong selling 
history on eBay. New sellers typically experience holds for up to 14 days, although 
sometimes it may be longer.
eBay says it holds funds for a number of reasons in order to encourage best-selling 
practices and to ensure sellers are successfully filling orders. It wants to ensure its sellers 
are providing great experiences for its buyers.
eBay says it also wants to mitigate any loss for eBay should buyers open claims or disputes. 
If funds are held, this reduces the need to seek reimbursement from sellers or attempt to 
change their payment methods, as it already has the funds on hold. 
eBay says Mr S experienced a hold on his funds for 14 days because he was considered an 
infrequent seller. Given what it says in eBays terms, I think it was reasonable for it to have 
held the funds as it did.
Mr S says hed previously sold an item for a much higher value and received the money the 
same day. 
Its not this services role to tell a business what policies or processes to put in place or how 
strictly they must follow them. If a business has failed to follow a policy correctly or a 
consumer has been unfairly disadvantaged in some way, we would consider what the impact 
on the consumer is.
The information on eBays website doesnt state that it will always place a 14 day hold on 
transactions for new or infrequent sellers. It says these sellers will typically experience 
holds for up to 14 days. I appreciate Mr S might be confused about why eBay didnt place a 
14 day hold on his previous transaction. However, Im not persuaded that hes been 
disadvantaged by this. 
Mr S has commented that eBays terms of use is a lengthy document, which he says is not 
in plain English. He doesnt think he should be expected to recall the intricate details of it. 
And he thinks eBay should have given him a reminder that the funds would or might be held 
before he completed the sale.
 
I appreciate what Mr S has said about this, but I think the information about holds on eBays 
website is clear. So, Im satisfied eBay has given clear information to its customers regarding 
its policy to place holds on funds in certain circumstances.
Mr S has also commented about eBays final response email, which wasnt detailed and only 
referred him to our service. However, eBay says it had explained its reason for the hold prior 
to sending its final response to Mr Ss complaint. I appreciate Mr S feels it would have been 
helpful if eBay had given its reasons for not upholding his complaint in its final response 
email. But Im satisfied that eBay has acted fairly with regards to the matter Mr S has 
complained about. So, Mr Ss comments about eBays final response email havent made a 
difference to the outcome Ive reached.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr S. But overall, Im satisfied that eBay has 
acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Anne MuscroftOmbudsman