DRN-3659203
The complaint
Mr T complains that Vanquis Bank Limited would not assist him to make a loan repayment.
What happened
Mr T says he cancelled his loan payment to Vanquis by mistake which meant he missed 
required payments from January 2022. He says from February 2022 he tried to contact 
Vanquis so he could restart the payments but didnt receive the required information to do 
so. Mr T says he tried to call Vanquis and e-mailed on about 10 occasions. He says he was 
living abroad and asked Vanquis to provide the information he needed to make payments. 
Mr T would like an apology and for his credit file to be amended.
Vanquis says the last payment was made in December 2021 and it asked Mr T to call it. It 
says it cant communicate by e-mail as Mr T wanted and says he could have made the 
payments by a variety methods. Vanquis says it sent messages to Mr Ts mobile telephone 
asking him to contact it and tried to call him.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Vanquis had sent numerous messages to Mr Ts mobile telephone and was entitled 
to pass the debt to a debt collection business when payments were not met.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and says he told Vanquis he had changed his address and 
telephone number, but it used his old number.
Vanquis says Mr T changed his details online in August 2022 and has no record of an earlier 
change.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied this was Mr Ts loan and his responsibility to make the required payments. I 
appreciate Mr T may have mistakenly cancelled his payment to Vanquis but that is not 
something I can fairly hold Vanquis responsible for. I dont think it clear why Mr T couldnt 
have simply asked his bank to re-instate the payments or provide him with the account 
details the previous payments were made to.
I can see from Vanquiss records that it made attempts to contact Mr T via different methods 
but without response.
I appreciate Mr T says he told Vanquis about his new address and telephone number some 
ago. I have looked at Vanquiss records and I cant see any evidence of that change. I can 
see from Vanquiss records that there is a record of a change of details in August 2022. So, I 
think on balance that Mr Ts details hadnt been updated and that Vanquis, having seen its 
records, made numerous calls as well as attempts to contact him using the details it held.
I accept that Mr T made contact with Vanquis by e-mail. I dont think it clear why Mr T 
couldnt telephone Vanquis using widely available telephone numbers and speak to its 
relevant department to make required payments. I dont think Vanquis acted unfairly by 
deciding to communicate with its customers by other means and think such matters are for 
Vanquis to decide upon when exercising its commercial judgement.
Overall, Im satisfied that its up to Mr T to make the required loan repayments and that 
Vanquis was entitled to pass the debt to a debt collection agency in circumstances when 
payments were not made. Im satisfied that Mr T could have called Vanquis despite the time 
differences on what I think were widely available telephone numbers. It follows that I dont 
think Vanquis has made a mistake by reporting the missed payments on Mr Ts credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman