DRN-3406414
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society have been unable to trace an income bond 
he took out in 1990.
Mr M is being represented by a solicitor. For ease I will refer to Mr M directly throughout my 
decision.
What happened
In 1990 Mr M took out an investment bond with a predecessor business of Nationwide for 
which he holds the original bond certificate. 
In April 2020 Mr M requested the value of an income bond which was originally £11,000 but 
Nationwide were unable to find it, so he asked them to trace it. Nationwide checked their 
systems but couldnt find it. They explained the type of bond Mr M held was not in scope for 
dormancy and that it was set up to pay interest to a separate account.
Mr M didnt agree with Nationwide as he was certain hed not surrendered or encashed the 
bond, so he referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked into things but thought Nationwide had done enough in 
trying to locate the bond. Because Nationwide could find no record post 1995, she thought 
the bond had most likely closed prior to then.
Mr M disagreed saying, amongst making other points, Nationwide had not clarified if it was 
their practice to redeem income bonds without production of the original certificate  which 
he still held.
Our Investigator said holding an original bond certificate didnt necessarily mean an account 
was still open. She said Nationwide had carried out a search of their records, finding no 
indication of Mr Ms bond.
Mr M remained unhappy raising two points he considered important. Mr M said Nationwide 
hadnt provided any explanation as to their procedure in redeeming bonds, and he remained 
of the opinion it was unclear if Nationwide had carried out a reasonable search of their 
records.
Nationwide provided our Investigator an example of a form which members can use to 
request a replacement bond certificate should the original become lost, damaged or stolen 
allowing for the bond to be closed. She provided a copy of this form to Mr M and confirmed 
she remained satisfied the searches carried out by Nationwide were reasonable.
Mr M said the form reinforced his complaint as he still held the original certificate and had 
never lost it. He said the form proved Nationwide would require a certificate to redeem the 
funds and as he holds the original, the bond monies and interest remain due to him.
As no resolution could be reached the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also think its important to say that my role here is to look at the searches Nationwide have 
done to try and locate the bond, and not necessarily to say what happened to the money. 
This is an important distinction. 
The original bond certificate isnt necessarily required to close a bond. Nationwide have 
explained in cases where an original certificate is lost, stolen or damaged a replacement can 
be requested. I understand Mr M says this reinforces his complaint because he holds the 
original certificate, which was never lost, but I dont agree. While he holds it now, its not to 
say it wasnt reported lost over the years.
The bond in question was taken out in 1990, over 30 years ago, so its understandable 
theres limited documentation from the time other than the certificate provided by Mr M. In 
situations like this I need to reach a decision based on the balance of probabilities as to what 
I think is most likely to have happened.
Nationwide have searched their systems using the information provided by Mr M and theyve 
provided screen shots showing no accounts either open or closed were found. 
Having considered these screen shots, and the information provided by Nationwide, Im 
persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, no accounts remain open with them. And that 
any accounts previously held were closed prior to the retention period of information by 
Nationwide.
Nationwide have explained the type of bond held by Mr M was set up to pay regular interest 
into a separate account. Because of this Nationwide say this type of bond isnt in scope for 
dormancy. If the bond remained open interest would still be being paid.
Mr M says hes banked solely and continuously with one bank since opening my account 
with them 32 years ago. He also says, I suspect this is where I would have instructed the 
Nationwide to return my investment. And I think on balance it wouldve likely also been this 
account nominated to receive interest paid from the bond.
I understand Mr Ms asked his bank for statements to show he never received the funds from 
the bond, but theyve been unable to provide anything prior to the last ten years.
I acknowledge its frustrating Mr Ms been unable to show no credit was ever received into 
his account in redemption of the bond. But Ive also seen nothing to show his account has 
been in receipt of interest paid as a result of the bond remaining open, so on balance, I think 
its more likely than not that the bond closed a long time ago and the funds no longer remain 
with Nationwide.
As I said above, my role is to look at what searches Nationwide have done to try and locate 
Mr Ms bond. Having looked at everything Im satisfied Nationwide have acted fairly and 
reasonably when searching their records. Its unfortunate, but not unexpected after over 30 
years, that Nationwide have been unable to say where the money went, but I dont think 
theyve made any errors in their actions.For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman