DRN-4003098
The complaint
A company I will refer to as E complains about MS Amlin Insurance SEs (Amlin) decision to
decline a claim for the theft of a car, under its motor insurance policy.
What happened
In June 2021 one of the cars E had insured with Amlin was stolen from its employees home
address. The theft was reported to the police and a claim was registered with Amlin. The car
was recovered around two weeks later but had been stripped for parts and was categorised
as a total loss.
Amlin valued the car at £45,595. A higher valuation was confirmed by the lease company at
£51,002.33, including optional extras. Amlin revalued the car, including the optional extras it
hadnt included first time. Its new valuation came to £50,776.
Amlin asked E if it had a Thatcham approved category 5 or 6 tracking device fitted to the car.
This was a requirement of the policy terms for any vehicle with a market value of £50,000 or
more. E couldnt confirm a tracking device was in place, so Amlin declined the claim.
E says a tracker was likely to have been in place as otherwise how were the police able to
locate the car. Amlin says the police act on various sources of information and that several
other cars were found in the same location.
Amlin says a tracker device provides an alert to the owner when the car is stolen, and this
can then be actively tracked. It says this information can be shared with the police. This
significantly increases the chances of both recovering the vehicle and recovering it without
damage. As there was no active tracker system in place Amlin says this has substantially
aggravated the cost of this claim, which might have been avoided entirely.
In response to Es comments that the vehicle was likely supplied with a tracking device -
Amlin says an annual fee is payable to ensure a tracking device remains operational. It didnt
receive evidence to show a tracking device was operational so maintained its decline
decision.
E didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt
uphold its complaint. She says the policy schedule clearly sets out the endorsements that
apply. This includes the requirement for an active tracker device. Our investigator didnt think
E had shown a device was fitted and active. She thought Amlin had acted fairly when
declining this claim.
E disagreed. It says the car was parked at its employees address every night for around four
years. It also says Amlin owed a duty of care to send reminders given the importance it
placed on the tracker endorsement. E also points out that the car was initially valued at less
than £50,000 by Amlin. Because it didnt agree with our investigators decision, it asked for
the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in February 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Es. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Es policy terms to see what endorsements were applied to the policy. At the top of
the first page under the heading Important  you should read this document in full it says:
This schedule together with your policy wording, any endorsement or certificates and the
information set out in the Statement of Facts should be read together as one document.
The policy schedule lists five endorsements. Amlin has relied on the following to decline this
claim:
Endorsement: FLEET626A  Thatcham approved Category 5 or 6 Tracker condition for
vehicles over £50,000: Effective date: 31/03/2021
On page seven of the policy document more detail on the endorsement is provided. It says:
Reference: FLEET626A - Thatcham approved Category 5 or 6 tracker condition for vehicles
over £50,000
Effective date: 31/03/2021. The following applies to Section 4  Theft only and is a condition
of this policy that you need to meet as your part of this contract.
You must ensure that any insured vehicle with a market value of 50,000 GBP or more is
fitted with an operational and active Thatcham approved Category 5 or 6 tracking device.
If you do not meet this condition, we may reject a claim payment or a claim payment could
be reduced.
E hasnt provided evidence to show an active tracking device was in place on the vehicle
that was stolen. I note Amlins comments that this model of car can be fitted with one of two
trackers by the manufacturer. But it says only one years subscription is included at
purchase. Amlin says subsequent years require an ongoing subscription to ensure the
tracker is active.
Based on the evidence provided there was no active tracker device on Es car at the time it
was stolen. However, the endorsement specifically states that such a device is required for
vehicles with a market value of £50,000 or over. Ive thought about whether this impacts
here.
When Es car was recovered it was determined a total loss. In these circumstances the
policy provides a settlement payment for the market value of the vehicle. Amlin arranged for
a valuation. Its engineer used two of the industry trade guides to establish a market value.
Our service also uses these trade guides to consider whether an insurer has been fair when
valuing a vehicle. So, I dont think Amlins approach was unreasonable here.
The valuations Amlins engineer obtained were for £41,580 and £49,610. It took an average
of the two and arrived at a market value of £45,595. I can see it used 18,000 miles for Es
car when obtaining these valuations.Amlin also asked the leasing company Es vehicle was leased from to provide a valuation.
The leasing company valued the car at £51,002.33. This included an adjustment for the
optional extras the car came with when new. Amlins engineer hadnt factored in the optional
extras when valuing the car. So, another valuation was performed to include the optional
extras. I can see 26,000 miles was used for this valuation.
In his second valuation the engineer only used one trade guide. This was the guide that
gave the higher valuation initially. The engineer says brake callipers and side steps werent
available to select from the optional extras. But he added an adjustment to include the
optional extras amounting to £2,316. This gave an estimated market value of £50,776.
Referring to Amlins claim records, it received an email from the leasing company in
February 2022. The leasing company listed the factory fitted optional extras on Es car.
Calculating for 50% depreciation, it arrived at a figure of £2,542.33. The adjustment for the
optional extras obtained by both the leasing company and Amlin was fairly similar. I think its
reasonable that Amlin factored this into its valuation and the amount was reasonable.
Amlin used two industry guides in its first valuation. But only referred to one of the trade
guides for its second. Its not clear why it used a different approach for the second valuation.
But if I take Amlins first valuation for £45,595 and add £2,316 for the optional extras this
gives a valuation of £47,911. As this is less than £50,000, it means an active tracker wasnt
a requirement of the policy terms.
As Amlins decline decision is centred on the value of Es car, I obtained valuations from
three of the industry trade guides to check whether its valuation was fair. I obtained
valuations at both 18,000 and 26,000 miles (to reflect the different mileages Amlin used) to
see what the difference was. Ill refer to the lower mileage valuations here as this gave the
higher market value.
Only one of the guides included the optional extras E had on its car. This gave a valuation of
£51,926. I added Amlins adjustment for optional extras to the other two valuations. This
gave valuations at £43,730 and £44,566. The average of the three valuations came to
£46,741.
In these circumstances I think its fair to take an average of the trade guide valuations when
valuing Es car. As Amlin did for its initial valuation. Based on this evidence the car is worth
less than £50,000. This means there was no requirement under the policy terms for an
active tracker to be fitted to the car. Because of this Amlin cant rely on this endorsement to
decline Es claim.
In summary, having considered all of this I dont think Amlin treated E fairly when declining
its claim for the reason it gave. It should now reconsider the claim based on the remaining
terms, without relying on the endorsement for an active tracker. Amlin should pay simple
interest at 8% on any settlement payment calculated from the date of the loss until payment
is made.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and Amlin should:
reconsider Es claim without reliance on the endorsement for an active tracker and
pay simple interest at 8% on any settlement payment calculated from the date of the
loss until payment is made.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.E responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision.
Amlin responded to say the vehicle would have been worth over £50,000 at the time of 
purchase and at the time of the claim. It says although its engineer valued the vehicle 
originally at £45,345, the lease settlement figure was higher at £51,000. Amlin says on 
receiving information about the optional extras, its engineer then valued the vehicle at 
£50,776. 
Amlin says in its view the vehicle was always worth more than £50,000. It says that taking 
into account depreciation it would still be worth over £50,000 at the time of the claim. It says 
E ought to have known the active tracker system was a requirement of the policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Amlins comments. However, the policy terms are clear. An active tracker is a 
policy requirement for vehicles worth £50,000 or more. At the time of the claim, the 
valuations show the vehicle was worth less than this. So, there was no requirement for an 
active tracker.
The lease settlement figure was above £50,000. But Im satisfied the approach taken by 
Amlin to use the industry trade guides to value the vehicle was appropriate. This is in line 
with what our service expects an insurer to do in these circumstances. By taking an average 
of the valuations obtained this gives a fair value for the vehicle. This shows its worth less 
than £50,000.
Having considered all of this, Im not persuaded to change my decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that MS 
Amlin Insurance SE should:
reconsider Es claim without reliance on the endorsement for an active tracker and
pay simple interest at 8% on any settlement payment calculated from the date of the
loss until payment is made. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman