DRN-3103004
The complaint
Mr B complains that Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited (Partnership) failed to 
identify that he was suffering from a medical condition when selling him a pension annuity in 
December 2010. He says, as a result, that the annuity he purchased was unsuitable for his 
needs and circumstances.
What happened
Mr B has been assisted in making this complaint by his wife, Mrs S. But, for ease, in this 
decision I will generally refer to all communication as having been with, and from, Mr B 
himself. I am also dealing with a related complaint regarding advice that was given to Mr B 
by a financial advisor before the annuity was purchased. Although the two complaints are 
different, they do share some common features. So Im sure Mr B will understand why some 
of the information in this decision, repeats what I have said elsewhere.
Mr B suffers from some serious health conditions. In the years leading up to the time this 
annuity was purchased he suffered from a number of strokes. He says that the last of those 
strokes left him with some difficulties in understanding and communicating. 
In 2010 Mr B sought advice from a financial advisor about making use of some pension 
savings that he held. That advice, which was accepted by Mr B, recommended that he 
purchase an annuity from Partnership  the annuity was to be enhanced on the basis of 
Mr Bs ill health. Mr B accepted a quotation for the enhanced annuity and this was put into 
payment with effect from 30 December 2010.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think the checks 
Partnership undertook, when reviewing Mr Bs entitlement to an enhanced annuity, gave any 
indication that Mr B might not have the mental capacity to make the purchasing decision. So 
he didnt think Partnership had done anything wrong.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by Partnership. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think it is important that I clearly distinguish the roles and responsibilities of the two parties 
involved in selling the annuity to Mr B. The financial advisor provided him with advice, and a 
recommendation, of how to take his retirement benefits. And the financial advisor was 
responsible for ensuring that Mr B had sufficient information about the terms of the annuity 
he was purchasing. So the responsibilities of Partnership in this transaction were relatively 
limited. Generally I would think that Partnership was simply responsible for providing the 
annuity it had offered, and putting it into payment in a timely fashion.
As I said earlier, the annuity that Partnership offered was enhanced because of the health 
problems that Mr B faced. So it was entirely reasonable that Partnership needed to 
undertake some checks to ensure that Mr Bs health was as he had described. So, with 
Mr Bs permission, it gathered information from his doctors about the state of his health, and 
the medication that he was taking.
But I think I should also stress that the information Partnership gathered was simply to 
ensure the annuity it was offering was set at a fair level given any likely impairment to Mr Bs 
life expectancy. Generally that information would allow Partnership to ensure that the risks it 
was taking in the level of annuity it offered were within its normal parameters. It wasnt 
gathering information to check whether Mr B was in sufficient health to make any purchasing 
decision, or that he had sufficient mental competency. I think it would be reasonable for 
Partnership to have expected those judgements to have been made by the financial advisor 
as part of the advice process.
So in terms of the information Partnership gathered I dont think it prompted any reasonable 
responsibility on the firm to dig deeper into the problems that Mr B faced. If Partnership was 
satisfied that it was affordable, and appropriate, to offer the enhanced annuity it did, and 
Mr B accepted that quotation, then it didnt need to seek any additional medical evidence 
before finalising its offer.
It seems to me that the information Partnership asked Mr B, and his doctors, to provide was 
reasonably necessary for it to make a fair assessment of the enhancement it would offer to 
the annuity rate. And it seems that the annuity was set up well within what I would consider 
to be a reasonable timeframe  the annuity was put into payment by Partnership just over 
two weeks after the acceptance of its quotation.
So Im not persuaded that Partnership did anything wrong when it sold this annuity to Mr B. It 
follows that I dont think the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Partnership Life Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Paul ReillyOmbudsman