DRN-2853738
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HFC Bank Limited has not properly compensated her for a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2000 Mrs B took out a credit card with HFC.
In 2002 Mrs B had an accident and made a claim on the PPI policy attached to the credit 
card.
Between February 2002 and February 2003 the policy paid out £1,921.56.
During and after this time, Mrs B got behind with her payments. This resulted in the credit 
card account being dealt with by third party debt collectors and ultimately led to a county 
court judgement (CCJ) being filed against Mrs B. 
In 2013 Mrs B complained to HFC about the PPI policy. At the time HFC did not uphold her 
complaint.
In January 2012 HFC wrote again to Mrs B. In this letter it explained that it had reviewed the 
complaint and was now upholding it.
The letter went on to set out what HFC was offering to put things right.
HFC offered to refund £170 fees which it said were caused by the PPI being added to the 
account. HFC also offered to refund £1,013.24 which was the total PPI premiums added to 
the account and interest accrued on those premiums. And HFC added compensatory 
interest of £1,196.15 (net of tax) for the time Mrs B had been out of pocket. HFC then 
deducted the £1,921.56 Mrs B received for her claim in 2002. So the total offer after tax and 
the claim had been deducted was £457.83.
Mrs B remained unhappy with HFCs offer and asked this service to step in. 
An adjudicator from this service thought HFCs offer was fair and calculated in line with our 
guidelines.
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me. 
To be clear, in this complaint I am only dealing with issues relating to the compensation for 
mis-selling the PPI policy. Mrs B has raised other issues about the way HFC dealt with her 
account when she experienced financial difficulty. She has also complained about charges 
made by third party debt collectors; those matters will need to be dealt with separately. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a PPI is mis-sold this service expects the business to return the consumer (as far as is 
possible) to the financial position they would be in if the PPI had not been sold.
To achieve this I would expect the business to refund all the PPI premiums charged, 
together with interest accrued because of the premiums. Id also expect the business to 
refund any fees or charges incurred as a direct result of the PPI being added to the account. 
And the business should pay compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for all the time 
the consumer has been out of pocket.
In this case I can see HFC has refunded the premiums , interest and fees charged as a 
result of the PPI being added to the account. And I can see it has calculated compensatory 
interest at 8% simple.
HFC deducted the claim monies Mrs B received in 2002 and 2003 from the compensation 
due. I think this is fair as Mrs B would not have been able to make the claim if she had not 
been sold the PPI.
So the offer made by HFC in January 2021 was calculated in the way Id expect and in my 
view is fair.
I also note that in May 2007 HFC credited the account with £1,336.19 which appears to be a 
refund of sundry charges made to the account. And in June 2007 it charged off a further 
£2,117.53.
Mrs B has told us that when she took out the PPI in 2001 she was not aware some items 
would not be covered by the policy and feels this is evidence the policy was mis-sold. But 
HFC has already agreed the policy was mis-sold and as I have said , I think the 
compensation offered for the mis-sale is fair.
Mrs B has noted that there was a delay in dealing with her accident claim and she had to 
obtain evidence from her doctor for which she incurred costs. It is unfortunate there was a 
delay but when making any insurance claim, in my opinion it is reasonable for the insurance 
company to request medical evidence before paying out.
I know Mrs B feels that HFCs offer doesnt cover her full costs incurred when making her 
claim but in my view the offer properly compensates her for the mis-sale of the policy.
Ive thought about whether the actual mis-sale of the policy caused her to fall behind with the 
repayments leading to charges being raised against her account, her account being passed 
to debt collectors and a CCJ being issued. I do sympathise with Mrs B but ultimately I dont 
think the sale of the PPI was the cause of her financial difficulties. If the policy had never 
been sold I think its likely she would have faced the same difficulties or worse, as she 
wouldnt have been able to make any claim.
I know Mrs B regards the offer of £457.83 as a partial settlement and is unhappy at being 
asked to sign an acceptance form in full and final settlement of her complaint. But in my 
view this settlement form only relates to her complaint about the mis-sale of the policy and I 
am satisfied the offer represents fair compensation in full for the mis-sale of the policy.
If Mrs B remains unhappy with how HFC and the third-party debt collectors dealt with her 
when she experienced financial difficulties , that would be a separate complaint to the PPI 
mis-sale.   My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
HFC Bank Limiteds offer is fair compensation for the mis-sale of the PPI policy and has 
been calculated in line with this services guidelines.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman