DRN-2646339
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he took on hire purchase from FirstRand Bank Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. First Rand Bank Limited trades in this case as MotoNovo Finance.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr C took a car from MotoNovo under a 5-year hire purchase agreement. The
cash price of the car was £15,000. At the time of delivery it was four-and-a-half years old
with a recorded mileage of 66,667.
About a year later the car broke down. By this time the mileage had increased to nearly
90,000. Mr C arranged for an inspection of the car, which indicated the turbo-charger and oil
pump had failed. The engineer concluded that the two issues were related; the failure of the
oil pump had led to the failure of the turbo-charger through oil starvation. The engineers
report concluded that the  fault to the oil pump would have been developing from the point
of sale.
Mr C arranged for repairs to be carried out at a cost of £770, which resolved the issue. He
complained to MotoNovo that the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality at the time of
delivery. It asked an independent engineer to comment on the report Mr C had provided.
That report agreed that an oil pump fracture could cause damage to other components,
including a turbo-charger. It said though that oil pump fractures generally develop
instantaneously as the result of fatigue or overload. Whilst the second engineer was aware
of internet reports suggesting that oil pump failure on Mr Cs car was a known issue, he was
unaware of any recall.
The second engineer concluded that the fault was likely to have developed in the previous
500 to 1,000 miles of use and was unlikely to have been present at the time of supply.
A third engineer wrote a further report, based on what was in the first two reports. That
report concluded that the second report was likely to have been correct. It wouldnt have
been possible to drive the car for 23,000 miles if the fault had been present at the time of
delivery.
MotoNovo considered therefore that it had no liability for the cost of the repairs or for the
cost of a hire car that Mr C said he had had to use while he was without transport.
Mr C referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators looked into it. He
concluded that it was likely that the fault was present at the time of delivery and that
MotoNovo should therefore meet the costs of repair and a replacement hire car, together
with a further £150 in recognition of the distress Mr C had suffered and the inconvenience to
which hed been put. MotoNovo didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that
an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision, I noted that the three experts who had prepared reports on the 
car had agreed that the cracked oil pump had led to the damage to the turbo-charger. They 
disagreed, however, on the question of whether the damage was likely to have been present 
or developing at the point of delivery. I noted too that only the first engineer  instructed by 
Mr C  had had access to the car. The second and third engineers had only seen 
photographs of the damaged parts.
I went on to comment:
It doesnt appear that any problem came to light until about a year after Mr C took 
delivery of the car. That doesnt mean of course that the problem wasnt present a year 
earlier, but I note as well that the car had been driven more than 23,000 miles in that 
time. I think its unlikely that an existing problem of the type identified here would have 
remained undiscovered throughout that level of use. I also note that that the second 
engineer thought that the oil pump crack was likely to have been caused by fatigue 
leading to instantaneous failure. He also thought, taking into account the mileage from 
delivery to failure, it was unlikely the problem was present at delivery.
The first engineer concluded however that the fault to the oil pump would have been
developing from the point of sale. I dont believe those two positions are necessarily
contradictory; in my view, theyre both consistent with gradual wear and tear eventually
leading to sudden failure. I do note however that the first engineers report commented 
only on the condition of the car at the time of inspection; he didnt mention the date of 
supply or the mileage at that point. Its not clear therefore how he was able to conclude 
that the fault had been present one year and 23,000 miles earlier.
I dont mean this as a criticism of the engineer. I dont believe however that I can fairly
conclude that he did take those factors into account when theres no mention of them in 
his report. The second report does however comment on the point at which the 
engineer believes the problem would have developed.
In conclusion, I was not persuaded that the fault had been present or developing at the point 
of supply. I did not believe that it was unusual for a car that had covered nearly 90,000 miles 
to need repairs costing £770, as these repairs had. 
Mr C responded to my provisional decision to say that he had not been aware that the report 
he had obtained would be subject to a desktop audit. Had he known that, he would have 
arranged a further inspection of the failed oil pump. In addition, the desk top report would not 
have been acceptable evidence in court. 
Mr C also said that mileage and the age of the car were not relevant. A properly serviced oil 
pump should last indefinitely. Further, whilst the first engineer had not included the cars 
mileage in his report, he had been aware of it. Mr C also forwarded further comments from 
other drivers of the same make and model of car, all of whom had experienced the same 
issues. This, he said, indicated that faulty pumps had been fitted to a number of vehicles 
(including his) by the manufacturer.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of Mr Cs response to my provisional decision concerns the treatment of evidence and, 
in particular, the engineers reports. I dont believe it was unreasonable of MotoNovo to seek 
a second opinion on the report which he provided; the alternative would have been simply to 
accept the findings of the first report without question. I do however accept his observations about how a court might view some of the evidence; indeed, a court would be likely to take a 
very different approach to the obtaining of expert evidence. This service is not, however, a 
court and is not bound by the same rules of evidence as a court would be. In reaching my 
provisional conclusions I considered very carefully the evidence available to me. And, as I 
noted, I took account of the fact that only one of the three engineers had actually seen the 
broken pump. 
I also took the view that, on balance, there was not enough evidence to enable me safely to 
conclude that the problems with the car were present at delivery. Put another way, I was not 
persuaded that it was not of satisfactory quality as set out in the Consumer Rights Act 2015. 
For these reasons, as well as those set out in my provisional decision, I am not upholding Mr 
Cs complaint.        
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require FirstRand Bank Limited to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman