DRN-2248691
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a PPI policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision regarding this complaint on 15 September 2020 and I will 
summarise my findings below.
Mr B and Mrs B took out a PPI policy during a phone call with a representative of 
Nationwide in 2001. The policy was added when they were arranging a secure loan. Mr B 
was the sole policy holder. The PPI and loan ended by 2006.
Mr B and Mrs B say they werent told PPI was optional.
Our adjudicator agreed and upheld Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. They said Nationwide more 
likely didnt give them clear information that the PPI policy was optional.
Nationwide couldnt provide a call record or sales script of the sale. It points to a script from 
2003 and says it would be similar to the one used. But I couldnt place much weight on this 
as it was from after the sale. But a lack of documentation about the call isnt surprising given 
how long ago the sale was. Mr B and Mrs B also cannot recollect the sale in too much detail 
either. 
But I was able to see a copy of the credit agreement that Mr B and Mrs B received after the 
phone call. On this credit agreement, it does make it clear the PPI policy was optional. So, I 
concluded that although I couldnt be sure what was said during the phone call, that more 
likely than not, Mr B and Mrs B were given a choice to have the PPI policy.
Nationwide says it didnt recommend the PPI policy and I concluded that this was most likely 
the case based on what I know if its sales at that time. It did though, need to make sure that 
the information it provided was given in a clear way.  I couldnt be sure that it did this, but it 
doesnt look like it would have made a difference even if I concluded that it didnt. I think Mr 
B and Mrs B would have found the policy useful and there were no restrictive terms that 
would have put them off either.
I didnt uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint. I then asked both parties to let me know if they 
had any further comments.
In response to my provisional decision, on 7 October 2020, Mr B and Mrs B say they dont 
dispute the credit agreement says the PPI policy was optional. But they say it doesnt negate 
a conversation took place where it was made clear to them that taking the insurance would 
support their loan application.
Nationwide replied on 23 September 2020 and confirmed that it had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr B and Mrs Bs comments provided in response to my provisional 
decision and acknowledge what they have said. I cant be sure what was said between the 
parties during the phone call but as I have already concluded, there is little evidence to 
review of this. And based on what I have in front of me and what I know of Nationwide sales 
during that time, I think it is more likely than not that the PPI policy was presented as 
optional to Mr B and Mrs B during the call and they chose to have it. 
Without any additional evidence provided by either party, I dont feel I need to reconsider 
my findings that I have given as a summary above and within my provisional decision. 
So, it follows that I dont uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr B and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman