DRN-3513277
Complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) started charging interest on the 
overdraft facility she had on her graduate account without notifying her in advance. She says 
her overdraft was supposed to be interest and fee free up to an amount of £2,000.00.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Bs concerns. He didnt think that Santander had 
done anything wrong or treated Miss B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Miss B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
It isnt in dispute that Miss B graduate terms were due to expire before the start of 2020. So 
Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to change the terms of Miss Bs account at this 
time. However, even though Santander was entitled to vary Miss Bs account, I would expect 
a bank doing this to provide a customer with notice of any changes in advance of them 
happening. 
Santander has provided information that it sent the required notification in advance of      
Miss Bs account changing. I know Miss B says she didnt receive any letters. But the letters 
were correctly addressed using Miss Bs address details. So while its possible Miss B may 
not have received the letters, or paid much attention perhaps because she didnt realise the 
significance at the time, Santander did what it was required to. And I dont think it acted 
unfairly as it appears to have taken reasonable steps to notify Miss B that shed be paying to 
use her overdraft. 
Miss B may be unhappy that these communications were sent to her by post. But while 
certain documents such as statement alerts can be sent be email, it is good practice for firms 
to send formal correspondence such as notice of a variation in the terms of an account by 
post. So I dont think that Santander acted unfairly in this regard.   
Finally, I know that Miss B has said that she will always be a graduate and this doesnt 
change and didnt end after two years. While this is the case, graduate accounts are 
specifically for recent graduates. And in particular the interest free overdraft benefits for 
these accounts are only usually available for a defined period  usually a couple of years  
after graduation. So while Miss B is correct in saying that so will always be a graduate, this 
unfortunately does not mean that she will always be entitled to graduate terms on a current 
account. 
Overall and having considered everything, while I do appreciate Miss Bs strength of feeling 
on this matter, I dont think that Santander has treated her unfairly. And so Ive not been 
persuaded to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I realise that this will be very disappointing for          
Miss B. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that 
her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman