DRN-3261934
The complaint
Miss H complains that RCI Financial Services Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car 
and that when it did relent it wanted to impose unreasonable charges.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
RCI has agreed that the car should rejected and it has accepted the recommendations of our 
investigator save for the matter of being able to charge for any possible damage. I note that 
the dealer has suggested that other elements of the proposed settlement be renegotiated, 
but the most recent letter from RCI indicates that only the ability to charge for damages is 
outstanding. That said I am happy to address the different components of the proposed 
redress. I would add that certain elements of the complaint relate to matters which are the 
responsibility of the dealer such as the state of a courtesy car and these are not things I can 
consider.
Our investigator has issued two view letters and these have covered the complaint in some 
detail. As such, I wont rehearse all the issues and arguments that have allowed this 
complaint to reach this point save to say that I have read all the material supplied by both 
parties and I am satisfied that rejection is a fair outcome.
I can see that Miss H has been dissatisfied with the car and I can also identify some 
frustration on the dealers part. It seems the relationship has broken down. However, I have 
to ensure a fair and reasonable outcome is reached and I doubt that I can satisfy both 
parties.
Our approach when car is rejected is that any deposit paid is returned with interest. We also 
seek to recognise the use a consumer has had of the goods. It seems that Miss H has been 
able to cover quite a few miles and it is only right that she pays for that use. However, for 
much of the time she has been without the car and has had to make do with either a 
courtesy car or a hire car, both provided free of charge. I appreciate the efforts made by the 
dealer to keep her mobile, but she has been denied the use of her new car which she had 
every right to expect. For that reason I consider a refund of all payments from 7 December to 
be fair.
I also consider she should not have to incur the costs associated with the transfer of her 
personalised number. If the car had not been faulty then this is not something she would 
have had to pay until the agreement came to an end.
As for the issue of possible damages I gather RCI is not aware of any damage and so this 
may not be a matter of any practical consequence. I can see that for much of its life the car 
was not in the hands of Miss H and if there was to be any damage identified it would be 
debatable as to who caused it. 
I trust Miss H has taken good care of the car and it is in a fair state. I dont consider it would 
appropriate in the circumstances for any damage charges to be levied save for in extremis if 
any deliberate or excessive damage had been caused to the car such as would be caused 
by an accident. As I have said I expect Miss H to have taken reasonable care of the car and 
to ensure it is returned in a reasonable state. If there is any dispute about damage and RCI 
considers a charge is appropriate it is open to Miss H to bring the matter to this service.
Putting things right
Miss H should be allowed to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct RCI Financial Services Limited 
to:
End the agreement and collect the car at no extra cost to Miss H.
Refund her deposit of £1750 plus annual interest at 8% simple from the date paid 
until repaid.
Refund all payments made since 7 December 2021 plus annual interest at 8% simple 
from the date paid until repaid.
Refund the cost of the number plate transfer.
Pay £400 for the trouble and upset caused
Ensure no charges be levied for any damage to the car save for any excessive 
damage as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman