DRN-4318778
The complaint
Mrs F complains about the advice given by Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited 
(Lighthouse) to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this 
has caused a financial loss.
Since the events complained about another firm has acquired Lighthouses business and 
has responded to the complaint on its behalf. That firm instructed professional 
representatives to reply to our investigators assessment of the complaint. However, for ease 
of reading I will refer to the acquiring firms and the representatives comments as being 
Lighthouses.
Provisional decision 
On 6 April 2023 I issued a provisional decision. For ease of reference Ive copied the 
relevant extracts below. I said:
What happened
In March 2018 Mrs F had accepted voluntary redundancy from her job. She approached 
Lighthouse for advice about her pension provision. Lighthouse had previously advised her 
husband, Mr F, to transfer the funds from his DB scheme to a personal pension.
Lighthouse carried out a fact-find to gather information about Mrs Fs circumstances and 
objectives. Amongst other things it noted that Mrs F was 54, married with two non-
dependent adult children. She was due to take redundancy in the coming months and 
expected to receive a severance payment of £92,000 gross. Shed been earning a salary of 
over £121,000 a year. Her husband was still working and earning around £60,000 a year. 
They owned their own home which had a value of £610,000 with an outstanding mortgage of 
£460,000. They had another, non-liquid, asset worth around £200,000 and savings of 
£30,000. Lighthouse said Mr and Mrs Fs monthly outgoings, including their mortgage 
repayments of £2,900, were £5,000.
Lighthouse obtained information about Mrs Fs DB scheme and received transfer value 
analysis reports (TVAS). It received three such reports with slightly different figures. I've 
quoted the figures from the last report, produced in August 2018 here. It noted that Mrs Fs 
DB scheme had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £927,754. The DB scheme 
would pay Mrs F a yearly pension at the schemes normal retirement age of 65 of £69,012 
together with a lump sum tax-free cash (TFC) of £90,249, or she could take a reduced 
pension of £52,674 and TFC of £314,050. At Mrs Fs preferred retirement age of 57 the DB 
scheme would pay her a yearly pension of £34,185 with TFC of £90,249 or a reduced 
pension of £26,959 and TFC of £179,727. Lighthouse said that, after discussion with Mrs F 
they had agreed that her attitude to risk was lowest medium with a score of four on a scale 
from one to ten. 
Lighthouse produced a suitability report setting out its analysis and its recommendation. 
There are four versions of the report on file, one in June 2018, two dated the same date in 
July (but containing different figures) and one in August 2018. Ive referred to the findings 
from the last of those reports dated August 2018 in this decision. Amongst other things 
Lighthouse said that Mrs Fs objectives were:
Flexible access to her income.
The ability to retire early.
Lump sum death benefits.
TFC to be able to repay her mortgage at age 57 or before.
An increasing pension in retirement.
A spouses/dependents pension on death.
Lighthouse recommended Mrs F should transfer her DB scheme funds to a named personal 
pension. Mrs F accepted that recommendation.
In 2021 Mrs F complained to Lighthouse. In short she said that she didnt think its advice 
was suitable for her. She said she had only recently read its suitability report and didnt 
believe it was accurate.
Lighthouse replied. It didnt uphold the complaint. Amongst other things it said its advice was 
suitable for her because it allowed her to achieve her objectives.
Mrs F brought her complaint to us. One of our Investigators looked into it. He didnt think 
Lighthouses advice was suitable for Mrs F. So he recommended upholding the complaint.
He said that Lighthouse should pay Mrs F appropriate compensation including £400 to 
address her distress and inconvenience caused by its unsuitable advice.
Lighthouse didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. It provided a 
detailed response. Amongst other things it remarked that it was reasonable for it to assume 
that Mrs F would have read the documents it sent to her. It said the Investigators starting 
point in considering the complaint was flawed  it said the regulators  the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA)  presumption of unsuitability was guidance only, not a rule, and 
that the overarching consideration was whether the adviser had taken reasonable steps to 
ensure the advice was suitable. It added that the regulator had required it to carry out a 
skilled person review of the advice given and an independent party had been appointed to 
carry this out. The Skilled Person had reviewed the advice, using the FCAs Defined Benefit 
Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT) and found the advice to be compliant with regulations.
Lighthouse also said the Investigators assessment focused too narrowly on whether Mrs F 
could improve on or match her scheme benefits  it said this was contrary to the guidance 
the FCA had issued in 2017 (Consultation Paper 17/16 (CP17/16)) that firms should not be 
overly reliant on investment growth rates (known as critical yield) when giving advice as this 
was leading to poor outcomes for customers. Lighthouse said the Investigator needed to 
take the DBAAT into account to decide whether the advice was suitable overall. It repeated 
that the advice was suitable as the transfer met Mrs Fs objectives. Specifically, it said the 
transfer gave Mrs F the flexibility to retire early and vary the income she took from the fund. 
It also meant that Mrs F could pass on any residual fund to her husband or her children in 
the event of her death.
The complaint was referred to me to determine.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In bringing this complaint and in responding to it both Mrs F and Lighthouse have made 
many detailed points. I've considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to 
address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
points at the heart of Mrs Fs complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Further, I'm aware that Mr F has also complained about Lighthouses advice to transfer the 
funds from his own DB scheme to a personal pension in 2017. And both Mrs F and 
Lighthouse have referred to that advice both when complaining and in response to it. For the 
purposes of context and for completeness I have occasionally referred to that process 
below. But, as we are looking at Mr Fs complaint separately, I don't intend to make any 
comments on the merits of that within this decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Lighthouse's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. This is known as the presumption of unsuitability. So, I think 
Lighthouse should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was 
in Mrs Fs best interests.
Lighthouse said that COBS 19.1.6G is only guidance and not a rule. So our investigator was 
wrong to use it as a starting point for his assessment of the complaint. It said its adviser 
was only required to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice was suitable for Mrs F.
I agree with Lighthouse both that the regulator required it to ensure that its recommendation 
was suitable for Mrs F and also that COBS 19.1.6G is guidance and not a rule. But I dont 
think that the importance of this guidance should be underplayed simply because its not a 
rule. It reflects the regulators clear, unequivocal and unchanged view that keeping 
safeguarded pension benefits is in the best interests of most consumers. Put another way, the FCA is clear that its not in the best interests of the majority of consumers to give up 
those guaranteed benefits by transferring out of a DB scheme. I'm satisfied that this is an 
important guiding principle for any firm giving DB transfer advice. And in any event, the FCA 
still requires that an adviser acts in accordance with the best interests of its client under 
COBS 2.1.1R. So advising firms should only advise customers to transfer out of a DB 
scheme when its in their best interest to do so. Thats the case regardless that COBS 
19.1.6G is guidance rather than a rule.
So, Ive considered all of the applicable regulations here. And having looked at all the 
evidence available, Im not satisfied Lighthouse took reasonable steps to ensure the advice 
to transfer was suitable for Mrs F or that it was in her best interests. Ill explain why below.
Financial viability
Lighthouse was required by the regulator to carry out a TVAS. There are three separate 
TVAS reports on the file that Ive seen. They contain slightly different figures. Similarly, there 
are several suitability reports dated in June, July and August 2018. While they all have 
broadly similar analysis and recommendations they show slightly different figures.
There are two suitability reports with the same date in July 2018 which have different figures 
but one of those has been updated with figures from the August 2018 TVAS, so it seems 
likely that Lighthouse just hadn't amended the date of the report when saving it to its file. I 
note that when she raised her complaint Mrs F referred to the suitability report as being 
dated in July 2018, so it seems likely Lighthouse gave her a copy of one of the July reports, 
even though it was most recently updated in August 2018. And as the August figures would 
appear to be the most up-to-date, I've quoted those below. Ill add that while its certainly not 
ideal that there are altered TVAS figures on file, I dont think the differences are so large that 
they would have made a significant impact to Lighthouses advice or Mrs Fs understanding 
of that advice.
Lighthouse gave its advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as 
to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by this Service on our website. Whilst businesses weren't required to 
refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication 
of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical 
investor.
Mrs F was 54 at the start of the advice process and turned 55 in August 2018. Lighthouse 
recorded that she wanted to retire at 57.
Lighthouse referred in its suitability reports to critical yields. But I found the manner in which 
it presented those critical yields confusing as they do not match the figures in the 
August 2018 TVAS. For example the TVAS indicates that the critical yield required to match 
the reduced pension of £26,959 together with TFC of £179,727 at age 57 was 1.09%. But 
when Lighthouse presented the critical yield for those benefits in its suitability report it 
referred to it as being N/A. But its provided no explanation for why. So I've only considered 
the TVAS figures when looking at the financial viability of the transfer.
I've noted Lighthouse said that Mrs F didnt intend to buy an annuity so the TVAS 
comparisons were of limited value. It said she wanted to take her benefits flexibly. But the 
regulator required Lighthouse to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to 
be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, I think the critical yield was a 
relevant measure as it demonstrated the growth needed to provide a fund big enough to 
secure an equivalent guaranteed income for Mrs F. And Lighthouse told Mrs F that the critical yields at both 65 and 57 were realistic and very achievable, which shows that the 
critical yield was an important feature of Lighthouses analysis and advice. But, as I've said 
above, that advice didn't explain why it had given some critical yields as N/A. N/A generally 
stands for not applicable, but I think a critical yield figure would have been applicable to 
allow Mrs F to see the benefits she would be giving up by transferring out of the DB scheme. 
But Lighthouse didnt give her that information.
The suitability report does say that Mrs F would likely be worse off if she took her benefits 
closer to her retirement age. But I dont think it really points out that it might be in her best 
interests to consider deferring taking early retirement in order to fully reap the benefits of her 
DB scheme.
Instead Lighthouse focused on Mrs Fs preferred retirement age of 57. The critical yield was 
1.09% if she took an annual pension of £26,959 and TFC of £179,727. However, if she took 
an annual pension of £34,185 and TFC of £90,249, the critical yield was 5.83%. But 
Lighthouse focused on the critical yield of 1.09% in the suitability report, presumably 
because it said Mrs F wanted to take the maximum TFC.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by our Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 3.8% per year for 
ten full years to the schemes normal retirement age of 65 or 2.7% for two full years to 
Mrs Fs preferred retirement age of 57. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates 
had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs Fs 
lowest medium attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in 
Mrs F giving up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at 
best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. There was certainly a possibility that 
Mrs F could receive an income broadly comparable to her DB scheme benefits by 
transferring out of the scheme if those are compared with her taking the maximum TFC and 
a reduced pension at age 57. But for all the other options, including taking a full pension of 
£34,185 and TFC of £90,249 at age 57 the critical yield was higher than both the discount 
rate and the regulators middle projection rate. That is considerably more than the 1.09% 
Lighthouse focused on in its suitability report. So, if Mrs F didnt require the maximum TFC  
something I will go on to address later in my decision  I think she was likely to receive 
benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result 
of investing in line with her attitude to risk.
As Ive said above, Lighthouse focused on the critical yield figure of 1.09%, saying that figure 
was very low and achievable. Ive noted that, when she completed a questionnaire in 
March 2018, Mrs F ticked a box to say that she would like the maximum TFC available. But 
it's not clear whether or not, at that time, she was aware that her DB scheme automatically 
entitled her to a TFC lump sum alongside her full pension. But, even if she was, in order to 
ensure that Mrs F made a fully informed decision I think Lighthouse should have compared 
the options of her TFC entitlement with a full pension against a personal pension in its 
suitability report, and whether that lump sum, together with her other assets wouldve 
allowed her to meet her objective of repaying the mortgage. And, in order to allow her to 
make a fully informed decision, it should have made it clear that, in those circumstances, the 
critical yield was most likely unattainable given her attitude to risk.
Lighthouse said its cashflow models show that Mrs F could have met her income 
requirements by drawing it down from a personal pension. It told us that Mrs F is unlikely to 
deplete her personal pension entirely in her lifetime. Lighthouse recorded that Mrs F would 
need an income of £32,000 a year. It's not obvious how it came to that sum. Lighthouse hasn't completed the expenditure section of its fact-find form with any actual details. It just 
said that outgoings were £5,000 a month. And it appears to mirror the fact-find from Mr Fs 
file completed some months earlier. So it seems the £32,000 was estimated based on her 
usual spending, less her mortgage repayments and allowing for some unscheduled 
expenses.
However, whatever the accurate figure, Lighthouse said that by accessing her benefits via 
drawdown from age 57, she could take TFC of £237,645 and an income of £39,260 a year 
and would last her until she was 85. That would demonstrate that Mrs F might well be able to 
meet her income needs by drawing down from a personal pension for her lifetime. But, 
whether or not shell be able to do that will most likely be dependent on investment returns. 
And any returns will be reduced by Lighthouses own fee of 0.5% of the fund value each year 
for ongoing advice and also by the 0.35% charged by the personal pension provider. And, if 
there was a market crash or as sustained period of poor investment performance, then 
Mrs Fs fund could suffer losses which could compromise her income security in retirement. 
And in order to take her pension in that way Mrs F would be giving up guaranteed benefits 
and putting her pension funds at risk. She had no need to do that. So for this reason I dont 
think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in her best interests.
Lighthouse has pointed out that the regulator said in CP 17/16 that advising firms shouldn't 
be over-reliant on critical yields. Instead they should take a more rounded assessment of 
the suitability of a transfer based on the consumers needs and objectives. But that doesn't 
mean that the critical yield isn't relevant. In fact Lighthouse argued that the critical yield, at 
age 57, was very achievable. But that was only the case if Mrs F took a reduced pension 
and maximum TFC at age 57. For all of the other options, including retiring at age 65 or if 
she took her full pension the critical yields were all above the regulators middle projection 
rate of 5%. That indicates that those were much more challenging for an investor with 
Mrs Fs lowest medium attitude to risk and were likely not to be met. But I don't think that 
Lighthouse made this clear to her. And given that I think she was likely to be worse off in 
retirement by transferring I dont think it was in her best interests to do so.
That said, financial viability isn't the only consideration when businesses like Lighthouse give 
transfer advice, and I've gone on to consider Mrs Fs other objectives below.
Flexibility and income needs
Lighthouse said that by transferring out of her DB scheme Mrs F gained the ability to access 
her funds flexibly and to:
Pay off her mortgage at age 57 or before  it noted the balance would be around 
£377,831 at age 57.
Retire early without penalty at age 57 on an income of £32,000 a year.
Reduce her income at age 67 when her state pension became payable.
In her complaint Mrs F said she had no desire to pay off her mortgage early. She said her 
mortgage was on a fixed term rate and there was a significant penalty of around £11,000 to 
repay it early; so thats not something she would have wanted to do. Clearly I wasnt there 
when Mrs F spoke with Lighthouses advisers so I can't know exactly what was said. But I 
think its likely that Mrs F discussed the possibility of paying off her mortgage early. Thats 
because there are numerous references to her wish to pay off her mortgage early in 
Lighthouses suitability report, including the redemption figure at age 57. And I dont think 
those would have appeared with such frequency if Lighthouse didnt genuinely believe that 
this was something that Mrs F was seriously considering. So I think it was reasonable for 
Lighthouse to refer to this in its suitability report as being one of Mrs Fs objectives.It might be the case that paying off her mortgage early was something that Mrs F was only 
thinking about, rather than it being a key goal for her. And that, after factoring in the early 
repayment penalty was something she didnt want to do. But I don't think Lighthouse was 
aware of that. In her complaint Mrs F said that she had only recently read the suitability 
report. But transferring a pension is an extremely important decision and one that will most 
likely affect the individuals security in their retirement. Mrs Fs CETV was over £927,000 and 
she was paying Lighthouse £13,650 for its advice. So, I think Lighthouse could have 
reasonably expected Mrs F to read the report at the time and to point out any mistakes or 
misunderstandings. And if shed done that and told Lighthouse that she wasnt considering 
paying off her mortgage early at that time, I think its likely that it would have amended its 
report to reflect that or perhaps revisited its recommendation. But as she didnt do so, I think 
it was reasonable for it to proceed on the basis that Mrs F was considering paying off her 
mortgage early.
That said, I don't think the prospect of paying off the mortgage early justified Lighthouses 
recommendation to transfer. Mrs F told Lighthouse that while she had taken voluntary 
redundancy she anticipated continuing to work, albeit in a different capacity, until she was 57 
and then retire. Mr F was also still working. And theres no evidence that she and her 
husband had any problems meeting their mortgage payments or would do so in the future. 
So its not the case that Mrs F couldnt afford her outgoings and, at that time had no need to 
repay the mortgage in order to afford her other living costs. And while paying the mortgage 
early would free up some disposable income, by transferring out of the DB scheme Mrs F 
was giving up a risk free and increasing retirement income that was guaranteed for the rest 
of her life. But I can't see that Lighthouse explored with her why she was prepared to give up 
such valuable benefits in the long-term for a shorter term gain of greater disposable income.
Similarly, Lighthouse said that transferring would allow Mrs F to retire from age 57. But 
Mrs F could have taken early retirement at 57 while remaining in the DB scheme. That would 
have entitled her to a yearly pension of £34,185 together with TFC of £90,249. So, if shed 
wanted to, she could have used part of that lump sum to pay off some of her mortgage. Im 
also mindful that Mr F had also decided to transfer his own DB pension entitlement and 
intended to take the maximum TFC to help repay the mortgage  together this would have 
given them over £300,000. Mrs F might have also considered using some of her redundancy 
payment or savings to help pay off the mortgage too. Based on what Ive seen, the 
combined sources of capital between Mr and Mrs F wouldve been enough to repay the 
mortgage in full. And by remaining in the DB scheme Mrs F would have kept her guaranteed 
and index linked pension entitlement that wasn't subject to investment risk or the volatilities 
of the markets. So, in my view, she didnt need to transfer out of the DB scheme in order to 
retire at age 57 or repay her mortgage.
Lighthouse said that remaining in the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mrs F as she wouldnt 
be able to take her benefits without penalty. Whereas it sold the possibility of Mrs F taking 
money from a personal pension at age 57 as a flexible benefit of transferring. But, the 
penalty that Lighthouse referred to was in fact nothing more than actuarial adjustments. 
Those adjustments reflect that, by taking a pension earlier, its likely that the pot to pay for 
that pension will have to last longer. As such the actuaries calculate a reduction in the yearly 
pension to allow for the fact that the pensioner will claim the pension  most likely  for a 
longer period. Thats not a penalty for taking the pension early, its simply an adjustment for 
having the benefits of that pension over a longer period.
Mrs F could have chosen to take money from a personal pension from age 57 without a 
penalty. But any such withdrawals from it, including a lump sum to repay her mortgage or 
for other spending would reduce the remaining pension pot and also decrease the amount 
the fund would grow by. So drawing down funds from an earlier date could in effect either lessen: the amounts she could take as income; the time frame she would have funds 
available; or  as I explain below  the remaining funds available as a death benefit. As a 
result, taking money from her personal pension early could have a more significant effect on 
her income in retirement than taking benefits early from the DB scheme.
In any event I dont think Mrs F had a concrete need to take early retirement. I dont doubt 
that, when asked, Mrs F told Lighthouse she would prefer to retire at age 57. And I can fully 
understand that desire. I think most people would say when asked that they would like to 
retire as early as possible if given the chance. But I think that was likely more of an 
aspiration than a definite plan. And I believe most people would understand that having the 
opportunity to retire early isn't worth compromising their income security over the remainder 
of their life for.
In fact Mrs F has since confirmed that despite having passed her 57th birthday she is still 
working. And while Lighthouse couldnt have been certain of that at the time it advised her, 
as I've said above, for most people, early retirement means a significant drop in income. And 
that would reduce most individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when faced 
with that prospect at an early retirement age, the majority choose not to retire. Instead they 
opt to continue working to support their current and future lifestyle options. And that seems 
to be a more likely prospect for Mrs F. But theres no evidence that Lighthouse seriously 
challenged her desire for early retirement.
Lighthouse has also said that if Mrs F remained in the DB scheme then she couldn't have 
reduced her income once she started to receive her state pension at age 67. It said that 
could have had adverse tax implications. If I've understood it correctly Lighthouse appears 
to be arguing that Mrs F should make herself worse off in order to avoid going into a higher 
rate tax bracket. But Mrs F would only have to pay higher rate tax on any income she 
received above the appropriate threshold to move into that tax bracket. So, paying more tax 
would simply mean she had more income to live off and enjoy. And I don't find that position 
adverse or harmful. Further, unlike with a personal pension, if Mrs F did pay higher rate 
tax, those additional tax sums wouldnt be reducing her DB scheme pot, as her entitlement 
from that was guaranteed. Conversely, if she paid higher rate tax from a personal pension 
then those tax payments would be directly reducing the funds available for the remainder of 
her retirement. So, I think the tax rate would be more of a concern from a personal pension 
than a DB scheme.
That said, its true that Mrs F couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to her DB 
funds as she could from a personal pension. While she could have chosen to take her DB 
funds early, she couldnt have done so without also taking a regular income from it, nor 
would it allow her to reduce her income once her state pension became payable. Although, 
as I've indicated above, given her income would have been guaranteed, I'm not sure why 
she would wish to do that. So she couldnt, for example, have only taken a lump sum TFC in 
order to reduce her mortgage or for other needs. Whereas the personal pension would allow 
Mrs F to draw down funds as she saw fit. Its also the case that Mrs F could have taken 25% 
of her entire personal pension fund as TFC. But the DB scheme has stricter rules about how 
much can be taken as a lump sum. I can see why a higher lump sum, at age 57, and more 
choice over how much to take and when might have been an attractive prospect to her. But 
Im not persuaded that Mrs F had any concrete need to take TFC at all or to vary her income 
throughout retirement. So I dont think the prospect of flexibility was worth giving up the 
guarantees of her DB scheme for.
Death benefits
Lighthouse said that a key objective for Mrs F was to be able to pass on the value of her 
pension to her husband or her adult children on her death. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like their loved ones to be taken care 
of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was 
likely an attractive feature to Mrs F. Thats because whatever was left within her personal 
pension at the date of her death would be passed on to her family. And that could be a 
significant sum.
In contrast the DB scheme would pay Mr F a proportion of Mrs Fs yearly pension after she 
died. But that pension would die with him and he wouldnt then be able to pass it on to their 
children. I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Lighthouse clearly 
thought that Mrs F would benefit from this by transferring her DB scheme to a personal 
pension. But the priority here was to advise Mrs F about what was best for her retirement 
provision. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not a lump sum 
to family after death. But in transferring out of the DB scheme Mrs F was essentially giving 
up a guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in retirement, for the potential for a lump 
sum for her family that they may not need for many years to come. And I dont think 
Lighthouse explored to what extent Mrs F was prepared to accept a lower retirement income 
in exchange for higher death benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs F 
was married and so Mr F would have continued to receive a proportion of Mrs Fs pension 
income if she died before him. Also, depending on her age and how long shed been 
claiming the pension for, a lump sum death grant may also have been payable to Mr F. I 
dont think Lighthouse made the value of these benefits clear enough to Mrs F. The spouses 
pension was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.
Given the size of the CETV I can understand that Lighthouse might have thought that 
guaranteed a significant lump sum for Mrs Fs family on her death. But, the available fund 
was reliant on a number of factors, including investment growth. And, as I've said above, a 
period of poor performance, particularly if the invested fund suffered losses, could reduce 
the sum available as a death benefit. Also, the fund would reduce as Mrs F drew down 
money from it. So if she took higher sums from it in the early years of her retirement, and 
enjoyed a long life, then that could significantly reduce the amounts available to leave as a 
legacy for her family on her death.
If Mrs F genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her family, which didnt depend on 
investment returns, she could have considered life insurance. I understand that Lighthouse 
did discuss this with her but she thought it was too expensive. But if she didnt want to pay a 
significant premium then Lighthouses starting point ought to have been to ask Mrs F how 
much she would ideally like to leave to her family. It could then have looked into cover for 
that sum to find something affordable that met her needs.
 
I would also point out that Mr and Mrs F had significant equity in their home, which I imagine 
they would leave to their children on their death.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mrs F. And I think Lighthouse should have 
made this clear to her.
DBAAT Tool
Lighthouse says that we need to consider its advice as a whole and that the output of the 
DBAAT tool should be an important consideration here.Ill explain that the FCA introduced the DBAAT in 2019 to help it assess the suitability of DB 
transfer advice. It published the tool to assist firms to understand the regulators file review 
methodology and to allow firms to understand whats expected of them.
While Im satisfied Ive already considered the suitability of the advice as a whole, taking 
account of Mrs Fs objectives, Ive also considered the DBAAT, as well as Lighthouses and 
the Skilled Persons consideration of it. I note the Skilled Person thought that, for the most 
part, Lighthouses advice was compliant with the appropriate regulations. But, I don't agree 
with all of the Skilled Persons answers to the DBAATs questions. I've set out below where I 
disagree with the Skilled Person answering no to the following questions:
The client is, or will be reliant on income from this scheme.
Mrs F had paid into her DB scheme pension for almost 30 years, and  apart from her state 
pension  she had no other pension entitlement. Her state pension would pay her around 
£8,325 a year. That sum is £23,675 a year less than the estimated income requirement of 
£32,000 in retirement. And as her only other income was from the DB scheme, then its 
difficult to see how the Skilled Person could think she wouldnt be reliant on that income.
The Skilled Person has recorded that Mrs F would be receiving a redundancy payment 
which, after tax, would be worth £72,000. And, on top of the £30,000 she and her husband 
held in savings concluded that she had access to cash reserves of over £100,000.
But I've seen no evidence that Lighthouse discussed with Mrs F what she intended to do 
with her redundancy payment or if she had specific plans for it. So the Skilled Person seems 
to have assumed that she would hold that amount in cash and that she could use that cash 
as income if required. But I dont know how the Skilled Person came to that conclusion or if 
indeed it was the right one. Unless theres a record of a discussion somewhere that I haven't 
seen Lighthouse didnt have any knowledge of how Mrs F intended to use that money. So 
she could have intended to use the funds for something else. For example  and this is 
purely hypothetical  paying her mortgage. So I dont think it was reasonable for the Skilled 
Person to simply assume that the redundancy payment was available to Mrs F and as such 
she wouldnt be reliant on the DB scheme funds as an income in retirement.
Further, even if Mrs F did hold that amount in cash its value was less than 11% of her full 
CETV sum. And of the £30,000 savings those were split with her husband. Also, if she took 
early retirement before her state pension age, then she had no other income other than the 
funds available from the DB scheme. So taking £32,000 a year from that cash sum would 
have seen it depleted in a little over three years.
I'm aware that Mr F also had a significant sum invested in a personal pension. And its 
possible that his pension might have been enough to support both of them. But, that doesnt 
appear to have been the basis of Lighthouses recommendation. Indeed, it expected Mrs F 
to withdraw significant sums from her pension to meet her living costs. Prior to taking 
redundancy Mr and Mrs F were living on a gross income of around £180,000 a year, with 
Mrs F as the principal income earner. And while they didnt anticipate requiring an equivalent 
salary in retirement, relying on Mr Fs pension alone could see a significant drop in their 
living standards, particularly if his pension fund didnt perform well, suffered losses or if he 
took large drawdown income from it at an early stage. So, while the size of Mrs Fs CETV 
and Mr Fs likely income in retirement did give Mrs F some capacity to bear investment 
losses, I dont agree with the Skilled Person that she wouldnt be reliant on her DB scheme 
funds.
The aim of the transfer is to maximise death benefits but there is insufficient evidence on 
the client file to demonstrate why this is in the client's best interests.And
The aim of the transfer is to access flexible benefits but there is insufficient evidence on the 
client file to demonstrate why this is in the client's best interests.
I've explained in detail above why transferring to maximise death benefits and obtaining 
flexibility was not in Mrs Fs best interests. But it appears that the Skilled Person thought that 
Mrs Fs preference for flexibility and her desire to leave any residual pension to her family on 
her death led to the conclusion that the advice was suitable overall. But for the reasons Ive 
already given, I disagree. I dont think Lighthouse should have advised Mrs F to take on the 
significant risks of transferring out given that she could have met the majority of her 
objectives by remaining in the DB scheme.
So, for the reasons given above, Im not persuaded that using the DBAAT tool demonstrates 
that the advice was suitable.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mrs F. But Lighthouse 
wasnt there to just transact what Mrs F might have thought she wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mrs F needed and recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice Lighthouse gave to Mrs F was suitable. She was giving up 
a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mrs F was likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mrs F shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of the 
scheme in order to repay her mortgage, especially at a time when she intended to carry on 
working and her repayments were affordable. And even if I were persuaded that Mrs F 
intended to repay her mortgage at age 57, it seems to me she would have been able to 
repay it in any event using the capital available to her and Mr F. Furthermore, the potential 
for higher death benefits wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with her DB 
scheme for.
So, I think Lighthouse shouldve advised Mrs F to remain in her DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mrs F would've gone ahead anyway, against 
Lighthouse's advice. I accept that Lighthouse disclosed the risks of transferring to Mrs F, and 
provided her with a significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it 
advised Mrs F to transfer out, and I think she relied on that advice.
Im not persuaded that Mrs F would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against Lighthouses advice. I say this because Mrs F was an inexperienced investor and 
this pension accounted for all of her retirement provision at the time. So, if Lighthouse had 
provided her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it 
wasnt in her best interests, I think she would have accepted that advice.
Further, its apparent that learning that shes put her retirement security in jeopardy, because 
of Lighthouses unsuitable advice, has been a source of distress and inconvenience for 
Mrs F. To address that I think its fair and reasonable that Lighthouse pays her £400 
compensation.Developments 
On 19 April 2023 Lighthouse told us that, while it didnt agree with my provisional decision, it 
intended to make a without prejudice offer to settle Mrs Fs complaint and asked me to hold 
off issuing my final decision until it had done so. I initially set it a deadline of 25 May 2023 
for Lighthouse to either make an offer to Mrs F or to respond to my provisional decision. 
Since then, on a number of occasions I have extended that deadline, most recently until 
23 August 2023. On that date Lighthouse told us that it would not be making an offer, so Ive 
gone on to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lighthouse has not been in a position to make Mrs F an offer to settle her complaint. And 
as neither party has provided any substantive reasons to challenge my provisional decision, 
I see no reason to change it. I still think Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld for the reasons 
above. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Lighthouse to put Mrs F, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for Lighthouses unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs F 
would have most likely remained in her DB scheme if Lighthouse had given suitable advice.
Lighthouse must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in the FCAs policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, while Mrs F told Lighthouse she planned to retire at age 57, as I understand it, 
she hasn't yet retired and has no plans to do so at present. So, compensation should be 
based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's 
guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions in line with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Fs acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Lighthouse should:
always calculate and offer Mrs F redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mrs F before starting the redress calculation that:
- her redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
her personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mrs F receives could be augmented 
rather than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mrs F accepts Lighthouses offer to calculate how much of her redress could be augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mrs F for the 
calculation, even if she ultimately decides not to have any of their redress 
augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mrs Fs end of year tax position. 
Redress paid to Mrs F as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Lighthouse may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mrs Fs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
40%. So making a notional deduction of 30% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Lighthouse should also pay Mrs F £400 to address her distress and inconvenience resulting 
from its unsuitable advice. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited to pay Mrs F the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mrs F the balance. 
If Mrs F accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs F 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs F may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman