DRN-4388699
The complaint
Mr C says Penny Post Credit Union Limited irresponsibly lent to him. 
What happened
Mr C took out a loan for £3,000 over 60 months from Penny Post on 29 March 2021. The 
monthly repayments were £83.37 and the total repayable was £5,012.78.
Mr C says he was £20,000 in debt. He already had another credit union loan that cost £400 
each month and he had to pay child support of £300. He could not afford this loan and was 
in a harmful cycle of borrowing. His financial position almost drove him to suicide. He wants 
a refund of all interest, the balance on the loan to be cleared and an apology.
Penny Post says it carried out a full assessment before lending to Mr C to ensure the loan 
was affordable. And when he stopped making payments, it tried to contact him by letter and 
email. It was then told he was in a payment plan with StepChange but has received no 
payment since February 2023. It has frozen all interest in the interim.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. He said Penny Posts checks  a full 
review of Mr Cs credit file, asking for payslip to verify income and obtaining recent bank 
statements via open banking did not show anything that meant it was wrong to lend.
Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said Penny Post did not verify 
his income and the loan was unaffordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Cs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Penny Post complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way and without experiencing significant 
adverse consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Penny Post act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Penny Post to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Penny Post had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable for Mr C. In practice this meant that business had to 
ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Penny Post to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the repayments on Mr C. Checks 
also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Penny Post has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked about Mr Cs 
employment and for a payslip. It reviewed his last three months bank statements via open 
banking and it carried out a credit check. Based on the results of these checks Penny Post 
thought it was fair to lend.
I think the checks were proportionate given the loan value and repayment amount relative to 
his income. And I think Penny Post made a fair lending decision based on the information it 
gathered. I will explain why.
Mr Cs payslip evidenced a net income of £1,416, it showed he did have a credit union loan 
as hes told us and that he repaid £412.46 directly from his salary each month. The credit 
check showed he had four active accounts, the most recent was opened nine months 
before. He had £3,549 of debt in total. He was not using an overdraft facility. There was 
some adverse information on his record but that was largely historic (the most recent CCJ 
was from 2016 and the most recent default 2019) so whilst I think that meant fuller checks 
were needed I dont see it was a reason to outright decline his application. And as Penny 
Post checked Mr Cs transaction history using open banking I think it had a full enough view 
of his finances. His statements showed in the month prior to application his essential costs 
(largely food and petrol) were around £625. I note there were some gambling transactions 
but I do not think they were of a value such that this ought to have stopped Penny Post from 
lending.Mr C referenced a child maintenance payment and from the open banking reports I cannot 
see a fixed monthly debit, but even allowing for the £300 he told us about I still find - based 
on the results of the proportionate checks Penny Post carried out - that it was fair to 
conclude this loan would have been sustainably affordable. 
To be clear, I am not saying Mr Cs finances were not perhaps less stable than the checks 
showed, but I do not think it would have been proportionate for Penny Post to complete the 
level of financial review needed to discover if that was the case.
I havent seen any evidence Penny Post acted unfairly towards Mr C in some other way. I 
would urge him to contact the lender to agree an affordable repayment plan if there is not 
now already one in place via StepChange. I am sorry his financial position became so very 
overwhelming and I hope he now has the support he needs. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman