DRN-3267250
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires, didnt respond 
to his requests for a new interest rate product and payment holiday.
 
What happened
Mr Z had a buy to let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. The mortgage was interest only 
with a balance of £64,662 and had a fixed interest rate product of 3.89% until 31 July 2019  
which was arranged by a broker. 
On 17 March 2020, Mr Z emailed Birmingham Midshires explaining he had tried to call three 
times for advice but had been unable to speak with anyone. He explained his mortgage was 
currently on the standard variable rate (SVR) and the property had been vacant for a while. 
He had planned to complete some refurbishment work and then re-mortgage onto a new 
interest rate product, but that had been delayed because of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
He requested that his mortgage be put back on the old fixed interest rate product until he 
was able to finish the refurbishment work and also asked to have a payment holiday until 
everything was completed and the property tenanted. Alternatively, he requested to take out 
a new interest rate product but be allowed to move without penalty at a later date. 
On 22 March 2021, Mr Z emailed Birmingham Midshires again saying he hadnt received a 
response to the above complaint. He said he had tried to call several times over many 
months but could never reach anyone and asked to be called as a matter of urgency.
Birmingham Midshires responded to Mr Zs complaint explaining they had been receiving 
high volumes of calls because of the Covid-19 pandemic. It said it had no record of ever 
receiving Mr Zs email dated 17 March 2020 and this was why no payment holiday was 
processed. It explained it didnt process requests for a new interest rate product itself and 
explained Mr Z would have needed to do this via a broker. It paid Mr Z £200 compensation 
for any inconvenience it had caused. 
In a further response to Mr Zs complaint, Birmingham Midshires explained it had refunded a 
direct debit payment of £238.23 it had incorrectly taken before the mortgage was redeemed 
on 13 April 2021. It also confirmed the redemption balance of £64,926.54 was correct as this 
included the capital balance and interest which was charged before redemption. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Birmingham Midshires had acted 
unfairly. They explained that Birmingham Midshires only accept applications for new interest 
rate products via a broker and Mr Z would have been aware of this having gone through the 
process before. They said Birmingham Midshires werent obliged to re-instate Mr Zs old 
interest rate product as it had expired. They explained a payment holiday wasnt available 
when Mr Z contacted Birmingham Midshires, as the guidance was only released on 
20 March 2020, and at the time Mr Z was trying to call Birmingham Midshires we were all 
experiencing unprecedented events  so they didnt think it was unreasonable that Mr Z 
experienced longer waiting times. They felt the £200 offered for the inconvenience was fair 
in the circumstances. 
Mr Z disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He said that whilst the guidance 
on payment holidays may not have been released, it was prominent in the media and 
Birmingham Midshires should treat customers fairly. He explained he didnt need product 
advice but simply needed to manage his cashflow and Birmingham Midshires were the 
correct people to contact about this. He also disagreed the wait times on calls were 
reasonable.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Birmingham Midshires say that it never received Mr Zs email dated 17 March 2020. It says 
Mr Z used an email address which wasnt associated with its mortgage department and in 
any case if Mr Z wanted to change his interest rate product, he would have needed to have 
done this through a mortgage intermediary or broker. 
Mr Z has provided a copy of the email he sent on 17 March 2020. I can agree that the email 
he sent wasnt sent to an email address specifically associated with Birmingham Midshires 
mortgage department. However, it was sent to a central email address which is the point of 
contact for complaints against Birmingham Midshires. So, I think on balance this would have 
been received and could have been responded to, even if it was to direct Mr Z to the correct 
place for his request  but this doesnt mean I think Birmingham Midshires should do 
anything further to put things right. Ill explain why. 
Mr Z was issued with a mortgage offer on 18 April 2017. The mortgage was recommended 
by a broker and set out that his mortgage would be on a fixed interest rate product of 3.89% 
until 31 July 2019  at which point it would revert to a variable rate of 4.34% above the 
Bank of England base rate. 
A fixed interest rate product will only apply to the mortgage for the period outlined in the 
mortgage offer and it wont be extended as it is an interest rate which is only available at the 
time it is taken out. So, Im satisfied Mr Z would not have been able to have his mortgage put 
back onto the old fixed interest rate product as he requested. However, usually when a fixed 
interest rate product ends, a customer will be able to apply for a new one. 
Birmingham Midshires has said that if Mr Z wanted to change his interest rate product, he 
would have needed to have done this through a mortgage intermediary or broker  a 
process which I think Mr Z likely would have known, as he had previously been through this 
process. In any case, I think Birmingham Midshires could have reminded Mr Z of this if it had 
responded to his email. 
Whilst I think Birmingham Midshires had a duty to respond to Mr Zs request, I also think he 
had a responsibility to actively manage his mortgage as well. Mr Z says he tried to call 
Birmingham Midshires on a number of occasions to discuss the mortgage but wasnt able to 
get through to anyone. Birmingham Midshires has said this was due to a high volume of calls 
because of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
I appreciate this must have been frustrating for Mr Z but due to the Covid-19 pandemic many 
businesses had to change the way they operate over night and had to deal with an 
increased demand from their customers with regards to the impact the pandemic was having 
on their financial circumstances. This understandably meant that many businesses 
experienced delays when answering customers request  something which I dont think is 
unreasonable in the circumstances. Whilst I accept that Mr Z had difficulties contacting Birmingham Midshires by telephone, I 
cant fairly hold it responsible for not processing a request if Mr Z didnt remain on the phone 
to speak with someone about the request. There were also other options available to him for 
getting in touch, but I cant see that he took any other steps until he followed up his initial 
email a year late on 22 March 2021  which I think is a long time to wait before escalating 
his problem.
 
I understand that Mr Z wanted to be compensated for the difference he paid on the variable 
rate with that of a fixed interest rate product he could have had, but I dont think it would be 
fair to have Birmingham Midshires make this award when considering that Mr Z didnt follow 
up his request by other avenues sooner. However, I do think Birmingham Midshires should 
compensate Mr Z for not responding to his email as this would have caused some distress.
With regards to the payment holiday, I think if Birmingham Midshires had responded to 
Mr Zs initial email this would have eventually been put in place for him. However, I dont 
think Mr Z has suffered a financial loss or been adversely impacted by not having the 
payment holiday. I say this because Mr Z has managed to maintain his monthly payments 
since March 2020 until the mortgage was redeemed in April 2021. If a payment holiday had 
been applied to Mr Zs account, he would have incurred additional interest as the missed 
monthly payments would have been added to the balance for the remainder of the term  
costing him more overall. 
Birmingham Midshires collected a direct debit payment of £238.23 on 13 April 2021  the 
day Mr Z redeemed his mortgage. Its acknowledged this was a mistake and refunded this to 
Mr Z on 20 April 2021, which is what I would expect it to have done. 
Mr Z has also questioned the amount he repaid at redemption, he says his mortgage is 
interest only and should therefore only pay back the amount he borrowed. Birmingham 
Midshires has explained that the redemption amount needs to be calculated taking into 
account any interest due up to the point of redemption. This is normal practice when 
redeeming a mortgage and Ive seen nothing to suggest the redemption balance charged to 
Mr Z was incorrect. 
Birmingham Midshires has paid Mr Z £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think 
this is fair in the circumstances and takes into consideration the difficulties Mr Z experienced 
contacting Birmingham Midshires by telephone, not receiving a response to his initial email 
on 17 March 2020, and not having his payment holiday request reviewed during a time of 
financial uncertainty. I also think it fairly takes into account the impact the Covid-19 
pandemic had on businesses at this time, so I wont be asking Birmingham Midshires to do 
anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman