DRN-1374065
 
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Nationwide Building Society provided incorrect information 
about interest and tax paid on her savings account and the customer service she received in 
respect of this.  
What happened
Miss B holds a savings account with Nationwide. In mid April she printed a report showing 
her the amount of interest and tax paid, she noticed this didn't match with information she'd 
been given on her account summary, so she complained to Nationwide.
Nationwide initially said the information Miss B was provided with on the interest paid and 
tax report was correct. But it didn't offer an explanation to why the figures were different. 
Miss B wasn't happy with this and continued to ask Nationwide why the figures were 
different. She said it was important she knew which one was accurate as she needed to fill in 
tax returns. Nationwide asked her to send it the reports she thought were incorrect.
At the end of May Nationwide then said there was a problem with its system meaning the 
information on her interest and tax paid report was incorrect. It said the problem was now 
resolved. It confirmed the information on the annual statement was correct and that Miss B 
should use this for her tax returns. It offered her £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Miss B remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us. She said she'd spoken to others 
with a similar problem and their issue was resolved long before hers. She thought 
Nationwide should have resolved her issue a lot sooner as the problem was known to them. 
And she said the time put in to resolving the matter caused her unnecessary inconvenience. 
She also complained that Nationwide made errors in further communications with her, 
including using the wrong title and misspelling her name.
Our investigator looked into Miss B's complaint and thought Nationwide should have 
resolved the issue sooner. He thought as the problem was a system problem, it was likely 
known to Nationwide as it affected more customers than Miss B. He recommended it 
increase its offer of compensation to £200.
Nationwide disagreed and so the case has been passed to me to decide. It said it only 
became aware of Miss B's issue when it received her report, and as Miss B suffered no 
financial loss, it thinks £100 compensation is enough.
 
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I'm upholding it. I'll 
explain why.
It's not in dispute that the error here is Nationwide's. The information it provided to Miss B 
was incorrect, and it's since acknowledged that. What remains in dispute - and what this 
decision will focus on - is the compensation offered to Miss B.
It's clear Miss B wanted correct information and it's clear chasing this issue with Nationwide 
has caused her trouble and upset.
I find it unlikely that Nationwide only became aware of the issue when Miss B sent it her 
reports. And even if this was the case, I think it could have asked them from her much 
sooner in the process. Looking at the correspondence, I think Nationwide could have done 
more to understand Miss B's complaint.
I find it more likely that Nationwide, were, or at least should have been, aware of this issue 
and been able to resolve it much sooner for Miss B. This was a problem with its system, so it 
likely affected a number of customers. It's likely that had Nationwide told Miss B much earlier 
in the complaint that there was a problem with its system, a lot of unnecessary stress would 
have been avoided.
I'm aware Miss B hasn't suffered a financial loss, but she has suffered trouble and upset that 
could have been reduced. 
Putting things right
Based on the above, I require Nationwide to offer Miss B a further £100 compensation, 
making the total compensation offered £200 in total. This is for the trouble and upset 
caused by providing her with incorrect information; not investigating and understanding the 
problem and resolving the issue sooner; and errors in the communications sent to Miss B 
when dealing with this issue.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide to pay Miss B a total 
of £200 compensation. If it's already paid Miss B £100, then it need only pay a further £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman