DRN-1579312
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that he couldnt borrow enough to allow him to port his mortgage with Bank 
of Ireland (UK) Plc to a new - more expensive - property he wanted to buy.
As Bank of Ireland wouldnt lend him any extra money Mr M got a mortgage elsewhere to 
buy the property. Mr M is unhappy he had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) for 
redeeming his mortgage as he wanted to stay with Bank of Ireland.
What happened
Mr Ms mortgage was subject to an ERC if it was repaid on or before 31 July 2021. During 
the summer of 2019 he decided to move house. Mr M wanted to port his existing mortgage 
and then borrow more money on top, but Bank of Ireland wasnt willing to increase his 
mortgage. It said he could only port on a like-for-like basis. 
Our investigator thought Bank of Ireland hadnt done anything wrong. Mr M didnt agree and 
so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A mortgage loan and a mortgage product are two different things. A loan is the underlying 
transaction in which money is lent; the product is the terms that sit on top. For example, an 
agreement to borrow £100,000 over 25 years is a mortgage loan; an agreement that for the 
first two years a fixed interest rate rather than the standard variable rate will apply is the 
mortgage product that sits on top.
In moving house, a borrower pays off their old mortgage with the proceeds of the sale. They 
also, and separately, apply for a new mortgage to fund buying the new property. A lender will 
consider the new application on its own merits. If its prepared to grant a new mortgage, it 
will then consider whether to port across the old product  if the terms of the old product 
allow it. These are two separate decisions.
If a lender isnt prepared to grant a new loan, then porting cant happen, and so the 
mortgage product ends with the repayment of the old loan; depending on the product terms, 
an ERC may be payable.
Looking at the mortgage offer I think it was made sufficiently clear that while porting was a 
feature of the mortgage product there were conditions attached.
I understand Mr M feels that Bank of Ireland hasnt treated him fairly. But in my view the 
decision not to lend Mr M any extra money was one that Bank of Ireland was entitled to 
make as a matter of its commercial discretion. 
Ive had a look at Bank of Irelands lending criteria, and Ive also had a look at Mr Ms credit 
file information. Whilst Mr M says he didnt receive any late payment charges and his credit 
score was unaffected, it seems from his credit file that a credit card balance was left 
outstanding for a period of six months without a payment being made. That pushed the 
application to being outside of Bank of Irelands lending criteria, however minor it may seem 
to Mr M. 
Whilst Mr M was able to port his mortgage across on a like-for-like basis, he wasnt entitled 
to borrow extra money if Bank of Ireland deemed it outside its lending criteria. If Mr M didnt 
want to incur an ERC he had the option to either delay his house move until the ERC period 
ended, or to buy a property at a price that meant he didnt need to increase his mortgage 
size.
The ERC was clearly set out in the paperwork Bank of Ireland provided before Mr M took out 
the product. For the reasons given above I dont consider it appropriate to order Bank of 
Ireland to refund all, or part, of that ERC.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman