DRN-3788505
The complaint
Mr O complains about Sainsburys Bank Plcs not responding to a claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act), in relation to the purchase of a solar panel system 
(the system).
Section 75 of the Act says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit 
agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
What happened
In July 2015, Mr O purchased the system from a supplier, which Ill call M. He says he 
bought the system, using a loan from Sainsburys, on the basis that M told him that the 
benefits, through Feed-In Tariff payments, would cover the cost of the loan and reduce his 
energy bills. 
Mr O says that in March 2022 he contacted Sainsburys, through a claims management 
company (CMC),  to make a claim under section 75 of the Act because M was no longer 
trading, and the benefits of the system were not as he had been told. In July 2022, Mr O 
contacted us to ask us to look into this, since he had received no response from Sainsburys.
We contacted Sainsburys, which issued a final response in September 2022 saying that it 
had no liability under section 75 of the Act due to the type of loan that was provided to Mr O. 
Mr O was unhappy with this, saying he thought that Sainsburys shouldve asked him for 
more information about what had happened. He confirmed that he had no record of the claim 
being sent to Sainsburys since the CMC had handled this. 
Our investigator looked into this and said that Sainsburys response was fair and reasonable. 
Mr O remained unhappy for the following reasons, so Ive been asked to make a decision. 
I feel that you have not reviewed my claim satisfactorily, you deem the claim outside 
of the Debtor-Creditor-Supplier chain as I took out the loan which was paid into my 
account. I only took the loan out on the advice of the agent working at [M].
When I was approached by [M] the salesman promised me that I would be able to 
recoup the money I paid for the solar panels through the Feed-In Tarif (FIT) scheme 
and that this would take only a couple of years. He went onto say that payment 
scheme would cover my monthly repayments to Sainsburys. 
So, after a couple of years, I checked what I was receiving, which was [not] as I was 
expecting.
When you take into account my monthly energy bills, I worked out that I would need 
to keep the panels for 22 years, until I saw any kind of profit, although the solar 
system only has a lifespan of 20 years, I will not see any kind of return on 
investment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Section 75 of the Act only covers certain types of 
credit, including credit cards and point of sale loans. 
Point of sale loans are a certain type of loan where the supplier of goods or services 
arranges the loan with the lender. The lender then pays the supplier directly on behalf of the 
customer for specified goods or services (the money is not paid to the customer and cannot 
be used for anything else). 
In this case, Mr O used a different type of loan, known as a personal loan. This type of loan 
is arranged by a customer directly with the lender. The loan is paid directly to the customer. 
And the customer can use the money as they see fit. This type of loan is not covered by 
section 75 of the Act. 
This means that Mr O is unable to claim against Sainsburys in relation to losses caused by 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. Sainsburys has no liability if there had been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract. So, it would not need to look at what happened 
during the sale. 
In light of this, Im satisfied that Sainsburys had sufficient information to respond to 
Mr Os claim and complaint without asking for further information. And that its response 
was fair and reasonable. Sainsburys has no record of receiving the claim prior to us 
contacting it in July 2022, so it could not have responded to the claim sooner than this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman