DRN-4404261
The complaint
Mr H complains about delays in esure Insurance Limiteds handling of his claim, and the
settlement payment it provided, following the theft of his car, under his motor insurance
policy.
What happened
Mr Hs car was stolen in July 2022. It was recovered, but due to the damage that had been
caused, it was considered a total loss. Mr H says esure promised he would receive a
settlement payment within ten days. This didnt happen and he says there was no
communication.
Mr H says esure should pay the market value of his car. But it told him his policy only
covered the cost of the outstanding finance. Mr H didnt think this was fair. He says the value
of the car was far higher than the finance settlement. He complained to esure about this.
In its final complaint response in October 2022, esure says that where a vehicle is acquired
through lease or contract hire, it pays the lease or contract hire company the market value or
the amount needed to settle the agreement  whichever is less. This is what it did here. It
offered Mr H £150 compensation for the time taken to progress his claim and for the
communication issues. But maintained its settlement payment was paid in line with its policy
terms.
Mr H thought this was unfair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld
his complaint. He says Mr H had a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) arrangement. He
says this means he will lose out financially if esure only settles the outstanding finance
where the car is worth more than this. In these circumstances he says esure should pay the
market value. This means Mr H will receive any surplus once the finance is settled.
Our investigator thought esure should pay Mr H £200 compensation to acknowledge the
additional time he spent contacting esure due to its error with his settlement payment. He
says it should also reimburse the interest Mr H paid on his PCP payments due to its delayed
settlement. Finally, it should pay 8% simple interest on any surplus he received after the
finance was settled.
Mr H didnt think hed been fairly compensated for the additional PCP payments hed made.
Or for the time hed spent dealing with this matter due to delays and errors on esures part.
As an agreement wasnt reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2023 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Hs policy terms and conditions in detail. The terms say:
Section 3 - What is covered
All loss or damage to your car caused by fire, lightning, explosion, theft or attempted theft.
We will:
pay to settle your claim
We wont pay more than the market value of your car at the time of loss, less the total
excess payable.
The conditions applicable to section three of the policy terms say:
Hire Purchase, leasing and other agreements
We will make payment under your policy to the legal owner if we know the car or any part of
it is owned by someone else and pay you the balance.
If your car is a total loss, well make a payment to anyone who has a financial interest in your
car and pay you the balance.
If you have acquired your car through lease or contract hire, we will pay the lease or contract
hire company either the market value of the car, or the amount required to settle the
agreement, whichever is less.
Mr Hs loss, due to theft, is covered by his policy. This isnt in dispute. Ive thought about
esures argument that its policy terms limit any settlement payment to the finance that is
owed.
I dont think this approach is fair. Mr H has a PCP arrangement. This differs to the lease or
contract hire finance arrangements described in his policy terms. What the PCP
arrangement means is that he pays an amount each month to his finance provider. At the
end of the agreement period, he can choose to pay a balloon payment and keep the car.
Alternatively, he can decide not to pay the balloon payment and return the car. The balloon
payment is calculated at the start of the agreement and is guaranteed. However, its possible
for the market value of the vehicle to be higher at the end of the PCP agreement than initially
estimated. This essentially means Mr H would have equity in the car. He could use this as a
deposit against a new vehicle.
In these circumstances, where the vehicle is financed under a PCP arrangement, Mr H
would suffer a loss under esures approach. This is because the market value of his vehicle
was higher than the remaining finance. I agree with our investigator that esure shouldve
settled Mr Hs claim by paying the market value of the vehicle. Any surplus after the finance
was settled shouldve been paid to Mr H. I also agree that 8% simple interest shouldve been
added to any surplus amount paid to Mr H, for the delay in providing this payment.
esure has since confirmed that it settled the finance and paid Mr H the surplus. It did so after
our investigator issued his findings. Ive looked to see if the approach used to obtain the
market value and calculate the surplus owed was fair.
I can see that our investigator obtained market valuations using the industry trade guides.
We use these guides to establish whether an insurer has treated its customer fairly. We find
these guides to be persuasive because their valuations are based on nationwide researchand likely sales figures. The guides also consider regional variations. We also take all other
available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
I disregarded one of the valuations we obtained as it only provides values from the last three
months. The loss date was in July 2022 so this wouldnt be accurate. The remaining guides
gave an average valuation of £46,847.75 for Mr Hs car. esure calculated the market value at
£47,110, which it later increased to £49,071. The settlement payment esure calculated is
higher than the market value we found. So, based on the trade guide valuations, I dont think
it treated Mr H unfairly when settling his claim.
I note that in April 2023, esure emailed our service to say it increased its valuation of Mr Hs
car up to the finance settlement figure. I wasnt clear what this meant. The market value of
Mr Hs car was indicated to be higher than the finance owed. So, I asked esure to clarify the
amount it paid to settle the finance, and the surplus it paid to Mr H.
esure responded to say it had paid £36,392.05 to Mr Hs finance provider. On the same date
it paid him £10,547.27 representing the surplus amount. It paid him a further £1,682.52 ten
days later to reflect the higher market value it had calculated. Ive seen screenshots from
esures claim system that show these amounts were paid. I think this shows it treated Mr H
fairly. However, esure should also demonstrate that it paid 8% interest on the surplus
amount. If it didnt it should ensure this payment is provided to Mr H.
Ive also thought about Mr Hs comments that he had to continue paying PCP instalments
until his claim was settled. Our investigator said esure should pay the interest Mr H paid on
these additional instalments. But I dont think this goes far enough.
In its submissions to our service esure says it hopes to settle a vehicle valuation within one
week of a claim being logged. In Mr Hs case his claim was logged on 26 July 2022. esure
says this shouldve been settled by 2 August 2022. From the records provided it paid Mr Hs
finance company in March 2023. This meant he paid a number of PCP payments solely due
to esures delays.
I cant see that Mr H benefitted from making these payments. His car was a total loss, so it
couldnt be used. Yet he paid a number of additional payments at a significant cost to him.
This shouldnt have happened if esure had settled the claim effectively. To put this right
esure should refund the PCP instalments Mr H made after 2 August 2022. It should add 8%
simple interest from the date payments were made until this refund is provided. Mr H can
provide esure with proof of the payments he made to allow it to validate the refund owed.
Ive thought about the impact all of this had on Mr H. esure didnt initially settle the
claim fairly. This had a significant impact on Mr H. He had to remain in regular contact with
esure over an extended period. This took a lot of effort on his part. He was worried that he
would be paid far less than the car was worth. He also continued paying significant monthly
payments for a car he wasnt able to use.
esure should acknowledge its failings and the impact this had on Mr H by paying him £400
compensation.
Finally, I acknowledge Mr Hs comments that he entered into another finance arrangement.
He had little deposit to put down and a worse credit rating because of esures unfair handling
of his claim. He says this has meant paying more for his current car finance. Ive thought
carefully about this point. But esure isnt responsible for Mr Hs decision to enter into a new
finance arrangement.
I think its fair that Mr H is compensated for the worry and inconvenience he was caused byesure when settling his claim. But Im not persuaded that hes shown its responsible for him
agreeing to a finance agreement on worse terms than he did with his previous car. So, I
wont ask it to do anymore in relation to this point.
I said I was intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint and that esure should:
pay Mr H 8% simple interest on the part of the settlement he received, or
demonstrate its already done this;
reimburse Mr H with the PCP instalments he made from 2 August 2022 until the
finance agreement was settled, plus 8% simple interest on these amounts*; and
pay Mr H £400 for the worry and inconvenience it caused him.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr H responded to say he accepted my provisional findings. 
esure didnt respond with any further comments or information within the timeframe 
specified. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, esure Insurance Limited should:
pay Mr H 8% simple interest on the part of the settlement he received, or
demonstrate its already done this;
reimburse Mr H with the PCP instalments he made from 2 August 2022 until the
finance agreement was settled, plus 8% simple interest on these amounts*; and
pay Mr H £400 for the worry and inconvenience it caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman