DRN-3094712
The complaint
Ms H has complained about how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) settled a claim 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H found a leak in her bathroom that damaged her kitchen. RSA accepted the claim and 
assessed the damage. While it was assessing the claim, it also found another leak, which it 
also agreed to cover the damage from. RSA agreed to cash settle the claim.
Ms H complained to RSA about various parts of the claim including the cash settlement. 
When RSA replied, it said it had settled the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy. In terms of charging two excesses, both would normally need to be paid as they were 
two separate claims. However, as the damage from the two incidents werent easy to 
distinguish, it agreed to charge only one excess. RSA said that in terms of its claim handlers 
actions, it didnt believe it could have dealt with things differently as the claim needed to be 
settled in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. But there had been issues with 
progressing the claim, for which it offered £250 compensation.
So, Ms H complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
the claim had been settled in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and the 
compensation offered was appropriate to address the issues raised.
As Ms H didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive looked at the policy documents, which said:
PREFERRED SUPPLIERS
We take pride in the claims service we offer to our customers. Our philosophy is to repair or 
replace lost or damaged property, where we consider it appropriate, and
we have developed a network of contractors, repairers and product suppliers dedicated to 
providing claim solutions.
Where we can offer repair or replacement through a preferred supplier but we agree to pay 
our customer a cash settlement, then payment will normally not exceed the amount we 
would have paid our preferred supplier.
Ms H asked for the claim to be cash settled. RSA agreed to this and said it would pay the 
amount it would have cost it to do the work. That isnt unusual and is what it said in the 
policy document. Im aware that Ms H has said the policy wording only applied to the cost of 
materials, not labour. But, I havent read anything in the policy documents that said that. So, 
I think it was reasonable for RSA to say its cash settlement, for both the materials and 
labour, would be at the amount it would have paid to do the work itself.
Insurers can often agree more favourable rates than a policyholder is able to negotiate. This 
sometimes means that when a policyholder asks for a cash settlement that it doesnt cover 
the full costs of them arranging the work themselves. But that doesnt mean an insurer has 
to pay the amount it would cost the policyholder to carry out the work. However, Ive looked 
at whether the amount RSA offered was fair and in line with the terms of the policy.
Ms H arranged for a quote to get the damage repaired. RSA initially made a cash settlement 
offer that Ms H rejected. RSA then increased its offer to £3,442.26 after the excess was 
deducted. This included a 10% leeway on costs and a 50% contribution towards the cost of 
the undamaged kitchen doors. Ive looked at the way RSA calculated its revised offer and I 
think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Im also aware that Ms H had concerns about the way the work was assessed and the 
payment was calculated, so Ive also thought about these issues.
Ms H said no-one visited her property and that the labour costs were calculated on a 
computerised system based on her postcode. Ive seen the findings from two companies that 
visited Ms Hs home to assess the damage. Ive also seen an email from Ms H to a company 
that was confirming some of the details of the claim. In that email, Ms H referred to a visit 
from one of the companies and said it measured her kitchen. So, Ive no reason to think that 
RSA didnt visit. I also havent seen anything to suggest that RSA calculated the materials or 
labour based on anything other than how much it would have cost for it to carry out the work 
at Ms Hs property or that it made its offer on any other basis.
Ms H also said she should have received the full amount for all of the kitchen doors, 
including ones that were undamaged, as they would no longer match. The policy booklet 
said:
We will not pay for:

 Replacing or changing undamaged parts of your buildings which belong to a set or suite or 
which have a common design or use, such as a bathroom suite or fitted kitchen units, when 
the damage is restricted to a specific part or clearly defined area.
So, Im satisfied that the policy explained it would only cover the damaged items. However, 
we would often expect an insurer to contribute towards undamaged items where there was a 
loss of match. RSA offered 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged doors, which is in 
line with our approach. So, I think RSA acted fairly and doesnt need to contribute any more 
towards the doors.
Ms H also said that RSA had been inconsistent because it had paid for the other parts of her 
claim at the full amount it would cost her to carry out the work. From what Ive seen, where 
RSA paid the full amount, this was because the quotes were for comparable amounts to if 
RSA did the work itself. For one part of the work, which Ms Hs quote said would cost 
£1,200, RSA agreed to pay half of that cost. Ms H accepted this offer. I also havent seen 
anything to suggest that RSA used different methods to decide on its cash settlement offer. 
From what Ive seen RSA considered each quote and settled it in line with the relevant terms 
and conditions of the policy.
Ms H was also concerned about some of the service she received. Ms H felt pressured to 
accept an offer made by one claim handler. Given the concerns raised by Ms H that Ive already discussed above, I can understand why she might have felt that the offer was unfair 
and not in line with her expectations. However, I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
offers were unreasonable. The claim handler also said Ms H could provide another quote 
and that RSA could carry out the work. RSA accepted there had been issues with 
progressing the claim, including requesting information again that it had already received. 
RSA offered £250 compensation because of the issues identified. I think that was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require RSA to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman