DRN-4300084
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained about Tesco Underwriting Limited. They arent happy about 
the way it dealt with a claim under their motor insurance policy. 
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mr and Mrs W had an accident in January 2022 and initially made a claim under their 
insurance policy with Tesco. But they didnt go through with the claim at that stage as they 
wanted liability settled before advancing the claim. The other side eventually admitted 
liability and the claim was advanced in August 2022. 
However, the claim was delayed as Tesco didnt realise the wheels on the opposite side of 
the car had been damaged in the accident as the initial report only outlined damage to one 
side of the car. So, Mr and Mrs W complained to Tesco about this and the impact the delay 
in dealing with the claim had (the value of their car depreciated while they were trying to sell 
it amongst other things). Tesco acknowledged that it delayed the claim and offered £100 by 
way of compensation and £108 towards the cost of refurbishing a wheel that wasnt repaired 
properly. But Mr and Mrs W still werent happy, as they felt they had lost around £1,000 as 
their car had devalued in the intervening period.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr and Mrs W but didnt uphold the complaint. At that 
point in time he didnt feel there was sufficient evidence to show that Mr and Mrs W received 
less when they sold their car because of the delay. And that its offer of compensation was 
fair in acknowledgement of the poor service and delay.
As Mr and Mrs W didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im presently minded to uphold the complaint but I want to give both sides 
the opportunity to comment before finalising my position.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint.
It isnt disputed that Tesco didnt deal with Mr and Mrs Ws claim in a timely manner and 
things were delayed because all the damage sustained in the accident wasnt repaired in the 
first instance. And Tesco offered £100 compensation for this and it offered £108 in 
acknowledgement of the fact it didnt repair one of the alloy wheels that it should have done. 
Since our investigator has considered the matter Mr W has provided details of the actual 
sale of their car in November 2022 (£20,444). And I can see Mr and Mrs W had two quotes 
to sell their car earlier in the year when the repairs should have been completed on their car 
in September 2022 (£20,861 and £21,270). So, it is clear that they received less money than 
they should have when they had already arranged to sell their car before Tesco delayed 
matters.
Given this it would seem fair for Tesco to put Mr and Mrs W back into the position they 
should have been but for the error (the delay in repair of their vehicle). I know Mr and Mrs W 
feel they should be paid £1,000. However, I cant be sure what they would have been paid in 
September 2022, so Ive used the lower of the two September valuations and the amount 
they were paid in November 2022. And feel that the fair and reasonable thing to do is for 
Tesco to pay the difference (£417) in addition to the compensation it has already offered for 
the delay and poor service generally.
Replies
Mr W responded and explained a little further why he felt he was out of pocket by up to 
£1,000. He said that he had to pay two further finance agreement payments of around £300 
which, when added to the difference in actual value, meant hed lost about £1,000. 
While Tesco responded to say it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld. I can understand 
the further points Mr W has raised but it doesnt affect my original thinking on this case. As 
he has highlighted he would always have had to pay any finance on his car until the point of 
sale. And, importantly, his finance package would have been reduced as contributions were 
being made as well so the final settlement would have been less. So, I wont be asking 
Tesco to pay anything more than the £417 already outlined.
Ultimately, Im satisfied that it would be fair for Tesco to put Mr W back into the position he 
should have been but for its error (the delay in the repair of the vehicle). And pay Mr W £417 
in addition to the £100 it has already offered in relation to the poor service and a contribution 
towards the wheel refurbishment costs that was already agreed. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Tesco 
Underwriting Limited to pay Mr W £417, £100 (total) compensation and the £108 wheel 
refurbishment contribution already agreed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman