DRN-3713528
The complaint
Mr C complains that Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IBUK) changed its charging structure 
without notice which has resulted in his trades costing more to execute.
What happened
Mr C has an account with IBUK. He complained recently that hed noticed hed been 
charged significantly more in fees to carry out trades. He said his account used to have a 
£29 per trade cap but recently hes been charged significantly more on some of his trades 
which has resulted in paying around £1,800 more to make similar trades. Mr C says he 
wasnt notified of these changes prior to making his trades.
IBUK explained that its commission charges changed on 16 July 2021 and this was 
published on its website. It said its terms say that any changes to fees and commission will 
be made on its website only and so it hadnt done anything wrong. It also said that Mr C 
wouldve had access to this information, and that it wouldve given an estimated commission 
amount prior to him executing his trades.
Our Investigator didnt think IBUK had done anything wrong. He explained that it had acted 
in line with the agreement that Mr C had accepted when opening the account and there 
wasnt an obligation on IBUK to notify him of any changes in a different way.
Mr C didnt feel this was fair and asked for an Ombudsman to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr Cs account with IBUK opened he accepted the terms. These say, under clause 37 
titled Commissions, Fees, and Other Charges;
Upon transmission and/or execution of a Customer Order, Customer shall pay to IB 
UKcommissions, fees and other charges as are then set forth on the IB UK website and 
are in effect at the time such Charges are incurred, which IB UK,,,may deduct from 
Customers account. IB UK may modify the Charges chargeable to Customer upon notice to 
Customer made by posting the modified Charges upon the IB UK website.
So, when Mr C opened his account, the relevant charges applied to his trades were those 
set out on the website  which at the time of account opening had a cap of £29 per trade. 
But the terms make it clear that the charges will always be those that are published on 
IBUKs website  and that any changes will be made by updating the website. That is what 
happened here. In July 2021, IBUK changed its fees so that the cap was no longer applied 
and that the trade would carry a fee of 0.05% of the trade value with a minimum of £3.
Im satisfied that IBUK has charged Mr C correctly for the trades he made, and Im satisfied 
that it has acted in line with the terms of his account when it changed the commission 
charges. I appreciate that Mr C feels it was unfair for IBUK to change its charges without 
individual notification to him. And I can understand his point. However, in the circumstances 
of this particular complaint I dont think IBUK has acted unreasonably.
I say this because Mr Cs account always referenced the charges on the website  that is 
that his agreement didnt set out specific charges when he signed up  it referred to those on 
the website that can be modified  which is what happened here. Im also mindful that Mr Cs 
trades wouldve shown an estimated commission amount prior to being executed. So, whilst 
it didnt give Mr C personal notice, he was made aware prior to executing his trades as to 
how much it would cost. And the website sets out those charges clearly which Mr C had 
access to.
Overall, I dont find IBUK has acted unfairly in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman