DRN-2447990
The complaint
Mr A says HSBC UK Bank Plc has not fairly compensated him for the mis-sale of a number 
of payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
 
What happened
Mr A complained to HSBC about PPI he says he was sold with eight loans between 1999 
and 2006.
HSBC told Mr A that no PPI was sold with three of the loans (ending 3582. 0458 and 5514).
But HSBC agreed to uphold Mr As complaint about PPI sold with the other five loans             
(ending 2882, 1054, 6536, 3214 and 8160). And HSBC made Mr A an offer which it says 
returned Mr A to the financial position hed be in if the PPI had not been sold.
Mr A remained unhappy with HSBCs offer. In particular he disputed that three of the loans 
had not been sold with PPI. Mr A also raised several other points. These included that HSBC 
had not properly compensated him for the cost of PPI that flowed from one loan through to 
the next. Mr A also said the addition of PPI had caused him to incur overdraft charges on his 
current account, and he had taken a loan with another bank to clear loan ending 5514. Mr A 
also said hed had a period of unemployment but didnt claim on the PPI as he didnt realise 
it had been added to his loan. Mr A said that HSBC should have informed him of the PPI 
policy so he could have made a claim which would have helped him avoid financial 
difficulties.
Our adjudicator thought HSBC had not properly calculated Mr As compensation. Some of 
Mr As loans formed a chain with each new loan refinancing the previous loan. This meant 
some residual PPI cost flowed from one loan to the next. The adjudicator thought HSBC had 
not correctly calculated the cost of this residual PPI. So the adjudicator requested that HSBC 
carry out a new calculation.
The adjudicator did not uphold the other parts of Mr As complaint, but they did award Mr A 
an additional £250 for the trouble and upset he had experienced in bringing his complaint.
Both HSBC and Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators findings. HSBC said it had calculated 
the compensation correctly. Mr A provided some more information about the overdraft 
charges he incurred.
The complaint has now been passed to me. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
HSBC has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policies. So I wont look 
into how the PPI policies came to be sold to Mr A. In this decision I will deciding if HSBC has 
fairly compensated Mr A for the mis-sale of PPI policies.
Where a PPI has been mis-sold, this service expects a business to return the consumer , as 
far as is practical, to the position they would be in if the PPI had not been sold.
I know Mr A has gone to a lot of trouble bringing his complaint to this service and Im grateful 
for the evidence he has sent us. I have considered carefully all the evidence and arguments 
put forward by Mr A and HSBC.
HSBC has told us that no PPI was sold with loans ending 3582, 0458 and 5514. Ive 
considered all the evidence on file and Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to show that 
PPI was added to those loans.
Current account charges
Mr A has told us that the PPI added to his accounts and in particular to loan ending 8160 
caused him to incur overdraft charges on his current account. 
Ive thought about this but Mr A would have used his current account for many expenses and 
payments , not just for the repayments to his loan. So I dont think its possible to say that if 
Mr A had not had PPI on his loans then he wouldnt have incurred overdraft charges.
Unemployment claim
Mr A has said he was unaware of PPI on his loans so when he became unemployed he 
didnt make an unemployment claim. Mr A thinks HSBC should have made him aware that 
he had cover when it became apparent he was experiencing financial difficulties. But I have 
not seen any evidence that Mr A specifically told HSBC he had lost his job. And  I dont think 
it is reasonable to expect HSBC to monitor a consumers current account and make 
enquiries about their employment status. When Mr A became unemployed he could have 
asked HSBC whether he had any employment protection attached to the loan but Ive not 
seen any evidence that he did.
Third-party loan
When Mr A cleared loan ending 5514 he did so using funds from a loan taken out with 
another bank. Although loan ending 5514 was not sold with PPI, it is likely the loan 
contained some residual PPI cost that stemmed from previous loans with PPI. In other words 
if PPI had not been sold with previous loans then it would have cost Mr A less to clear loan 
ending 5514.
HSBC needs to compensate Mr A for this additional cost. Mr A thinks HSBC should 
compensate him at the interest rate charged by the third-party bank on the new loan used to 
clear loan ending 5514. 
When a business calculates compensation on a chain of loans where PPI has been sold Id 
usually expect it to pay compensatory interest for the time the consumer has been out of 
pocket. And Id usually expect a business to use 8% simple interest to do this as I consider 
that a fair rate of interest. In this case loan ending 5514 was the last loan in a chain of loans. 
Its true that any PPI cost carried over from previous loans would have been carried over to 
the new loan. But I dont think it is practical to expect HSBC to incorporate third-party interest 
rates into its calculation of the compensation Mr A is owed. So I think the fairest way to resolve the complaint is for HSBC to use 8% simple interest to calculate the compensation 
for the time Mr A was out of pocket.   
HSBCs calculations
Ive carefully studied HSBCs calculations for the compensation it owes Mr A. Having done 
so I dont think HSBC has fairly compensated Mr A for all the sales of PPI. I will explain why.
Loans ending 2992 (taken in 1999) and 8160 (taken in 2006) were both stand-alone loans. 
I can see HSBC has offered to return the full cost of the PPI including the premiums and 
interest accrued by the premiums. It has also calculated compensatory interest at 8% simple 
for these two loans. So I think HSBC has fairly compensated Mr A for the PPI sold with these 
two loans.
However loans ending 1054,6536,3214, 0458, 3582 and 5514 formed a chain of loans with 
each new loan being partly used to refinance the previous loan. And 1054,6536 and 3214 
were all sold with PPI. So when these loans were refinanced, some of the cost of the single 
premium PPI added to the loan , would then flow through to the following loan. This is 
referred to as residual PPI. And I dont think HSBC has properly compensated Mr A for this 
residual PPI.
Part of the problem is that Mr A complained about PPI sold with loan ending 3214 in 2009. 
At the time HSBC dealt with the complaint about that loan and made Mr A an offer of 
£2,656.49. But HSBC didnt investigate Mr As other loans with PPI. HSBC may say Mr A 
didnt complain about PPI with his other loans, but loan ending 3214 was part of a chain of 
loans. So when he complained about PPI sold with loan ending 3214, he was, in my view, by 
default complaining of PPI sold with his other loans. I say this as loan ending 3214 would 
have contained an element of residual PPI from earlier loans in the chain. And from what 
Ive seen HSBC didnt compensate him for this or for residual PPI carried forward from loan 
ending 3214 to the next loan in the chain. In my view it would have been good practice for 
HSBC in 2009 to investigate the PPI sold with all the other loans in the chain.
When a loan with a single premium PPI policy is cleared early the PPI on that loan is 
cancelled. And the policy insurer will pay a rebate for the unused portion of the premium. 
Usually this rebate would be used to reduce the outstanding balance on the loan before it is 
refinanced by the new loan.
But in this case HSBC seems to have paid any rebates from early cancellation of the policies 
direct to Mr A instead of using the rebates to reduce the outstanding amount on the loans. 
So although Mr A received the rebates from the cancelled PPI policies, the amount of 
residual PPI carried on to the next loan was much higher than it would have been if the 
rebate had been used to reduce the amount outstanding on each loan before it was 
refinanced by the next loan in the chain. 
When calculating the compensation owed to Mr A , HSBC should have taken into account 
the full amount of residual PPI flowing from one loan to the next. From what Ive seen it has 
not done this. It has assumed the rebates paid directly to Mr A were used to reduce the 
lending. But Ive not seen any evidence that this was the case. HSBC can take into account 
the rebates received by Mr A but the rebates need to be deducted from the amount he paid 
for the PPI and not deducted from the residual PPI flowing through the chain of loans.
Ultimately I dont think HSBCs calculation is fair, and I direct HSBC to carry out a new 
calculation on the whole chain of loans (including the loans sold without PPI). HSBC will then 
need to deduct from the total redress what it has already paid Mr A in compensation for the mis-sold PPI policies and pay Mr A the balance. To be clear I have set out below how it 
needs to calculate the redress due to Mr A.
HSBCs handling of the complaint  
Ive looked at the way HSBC dealt with Mr As complaint. As Ive already stated I think it 
would have been reasonable to expect HSBC to have investigated all the PPI policies sold 
within the chain of loans when Mr A complained in 2009. If it had done so I think Mr A would 
have been saved a lot of trouble and upset. And when Mr A complained in 2019 I think 
HSBCs explanation of how it proposed to put things right could have been a lot clearer. I 
can see Mr A has experienced a lot of inconvenience bringing his complaint to this stage so I 
award him an additional £250 as compensation for the trouble and upset he has 
experienced.
Putting things right
The purpose of the redress is to return Mr A as far as is practical back to the position he 
would be in if the PPI policies had not been sold. In this case the loans were successive  
that is each loan refinanced the proceeding loan so that an element of PPI premium was 
carried over to the new loan and so on. So in order for HSBC to return Mr A to the position 
he would have been in if the policies had not been sold it needs to carry out the following 
calculations:
HSBC should:
(A) In respect of each loan:
recalculate the loan and the payments to what they would have been if Mr A had taken 
the loan without PPI;
repay to Mr A the amounts by which the payments actually made exceeded the 
recalculated payments;
pay Mr A interest on each of these amounts at 8% per year simple from the date each 
payment was made to the date the compensation is paid;
recalculate the balance that would have been outstanding at the end of each loan had 
the recalculated loan not included PPI. 
(B) Calculate how much of the balance that was carried forward to the subsequent loan 
related to the cost of the PPI policy taken out for the previous loan (HSBC cannot deduct 
any PPI rebate paid directly to Mr A from this part of the calculation); and
repay to  Mr A all amounts paid under each subsequent loan in respect of the carried 
forward balance, including interest and charges;
pay Mr A interest on each of these amounts at 8% per year simple from the date 
each payment was made to the date the compensation is paid.(C) Set out in writing for Mr A details of the calculations under (A), (B) and (C).
   HSBC is required to deduct basic rate tax from this part of the compensation. HSBC 
should supply Mr A with a tax certificate showing the tax it has deducted if Mr A asks for one.
When carrying out the above calculation HSBC can take into account any PPI rebates 
received directly by Mr A and deduct them from the overall total it owes Mr A. But HSBC 
cannot take any rebates received directly by Mr A from the residual PPI flowing from one 
loan to the next as described in (B) above.
HSBC should carry out the above calculation for all the loans in the chain. It can then deduct 
the compensation it has already paid Mr A before making payment to Mr A.
HSBC should also pay Mr A an additional £250 for the trouble and upset he has 
experienced.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should calculate and pay Mr A compensation for 
the mis-sold PPI policies. It should calculate the compensation as Ive set out in this 
decision.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman