DRN-3780808
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) acted irresponsibly by providing her 
with an overdraft and increasing her limit. She says it acted unfairly by continuing to apply 
charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Miss A was approved for a £500 overdraft on her graduate account with Lloyds in June 
2016. The first £1,000 of the overdraft was interest free. Over the next year Miss A applied 
online and had her overdraft limit increased a number of times until it reached its highest 
limit of £2,850 in February 2017. In 2018 as Miss As financial situation had changed her 
account was closed for long term support and Miss A took out an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement.
Miss A complained to Lloyds that the lending was irresponsible and unaffordable and that 
the charges applied to her overdraft were unfair when she was struggling financially. 
Lloyds said all applications for the overdraft lending passed its credit checks and that all 
charges were applied to Miss As account correctly in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account.
Miss A was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that by January 2017 a proper 
review by Lloyds of Miss As statements wouldve suggested that she wasnt managing her 
overdraft facility in a sustainable way and that she may be in financial difficulty and 
suggested that Lloyds refund all interest, fees and charges applied to Miss As overdraft from 
January 2017.
Lloyds disagreed with our adjudicators view but in order to settle Miss As complaint offered 
to settle the complaint in-line with the adjudicators recommendations and would:
Re-work Miss As current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from January 2017 onwards are removed. This amounted to a refund of 
£1,627.57.
As the outstanding balance is greater than this amount Lloyds will use the refund to 
reduce the debt.
Lloyds will backdate the negative information, default, as though this action 
commenced in January 2017 and as the process notifying a customer of an account 
closure and applying a default is three to six months it would back date the present 
negative information to 30 April 2017.
Miss A didnt wish to accept this offer as she didnt feel it had taken into consideration the 
emotional and mental stress that the situation had on her and the toll that it took on her 
mental health and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss A is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have.
So where a business increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility 
which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer 
in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that 
credit. This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added 
to any credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if 
those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case after reviewing Miss As statements, Im in agreement with our adjudicator that 
by January 2017 it was evident Miss A wasnt managing her overdraft in a sustainable way. 
While Miss A still had a salary coming in which would initially reduce her overdraft, she was 
spending more and her overall debt was increasing month by month. If Lloyds had carried 
out a proper review of her statements I think it ought to have realised it was unlikely Miss A 
would be able to sustainably repay the extra lent within a reasonable period of time.
Lloyds has agreed to settle Miss A complaint in-line with this finding and Miss A will be left 
with an outstanding balance, once all adjustments have been made, and shes been 
refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by the overdraft facility. So while Miss 
A will be left with a balance and she might be unhappy with this, Lloyds has agreed to do 
what Id normally expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provide credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what would be 
fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss A says Lloyds should do something different here. She says the irresponsible lending 
and charges took a toll on her mental health and wishes to be compensated for this.  
Miss A has given us a background of her circumstances and the tragic events that happened 
in her family prior to the overdraft lending. I sympathise with Miss A and I am in no doubt that 
the events she described have affected her mental wellbeing and continue to do so. But I 
havent seen enough to persuade me that the main cause of the emotional and mental 
stress she has suffered is due to Lloyds overdraft lending  rather than her personal 
circumstances alone. 
And I dont think this is a reason for departing from our normal approach to putting things 
right in cases such as hers. All the interest, fees and charges Lloyds shouldnt have added will be removed from what she now needs to pay. So what Miss A will be left with to repay 
are the funds which she used and benefitted from. 
So, in these circumstances, and bearing in mind Miss A spent them, I think its perfectly fair 
and reasonable to expect Miss A to repay these funds. And I dont think that Miss As 
unhappiness at having a balance to repay on her overdraft, even after her complaint has 
been upheld, is in itself a compelling reason for me to depart from our usual approach here.
I also understand that Miss A would like Lloyds to remove any adverse information it 
reported on his credit file. But Lloyds does have a duty to make sure the information it 
reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually 
accurate  so providing this is the case I cant ask Lloyds to amend this information.
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed to do to put 
things right for Miss A is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Miss A to decide whether she 
wishes to accept Lloyds offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss A is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
So Im not requiring it to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman