DRN-3144431
The complaint
 Mrs J complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) have declined her claim for treatment 
provided to her dog L.          
 
What happened
On 16 February 2020 Mrs J took L to the vets with what looked like an abscess on his gum. 
L wouldnt let the vet look in his mouth and so the diagnosis was made without an 
examination and antibiotics were prescribed. 
Mrs J took out a policy with GLI on 28 February 2020. 
In October 2020 Mrs J took L back to the vets as the abscess had grown larger and he was 
in pain. The vet removed the lump, but pathology couldnt determine whether it was 
cancerous or benign. Mrs J put in a claim for £980.65 for this procedure and tests. She 
received a letter saying the claim would be assessed in 3-5 weeks. 
The lump grew back quite quickly, and the vet recommended taking L to a different clinic for 
an MRI scan and biopsy at a cost of around £3000. Mrs J spoke to GLI and they said they 
had the information to assess the claim so she proceeded with the appointment and paid the 
bill of £3102.99. 
In January 2021 GLI rejected both claims as relating to a pre-existing condition. They had 
obtained Ls medical records and noted the appointment on 16 February 2020 for the mass 
in the jaw. As this was within 24 months before policy inception, and was for the same 
condition, they classed it as a pre-existing condition.
  
Mrs J was unhappy with this and complained to GLI. She said that the vet didnt know what 
the problem was in February as he didnt examine L, and the clinic hadnt examined L in 
February so they couldnt comment on what the problem was. Mrs J also complained that 
GLI told her it would take 3-5 weeks to decide her claim, and it took longer than this. If she 
had known sooner that the first claim was declined, she wouldnt have proceeded with the 
clinic treatment at a cost of over £3000, but she went ahead thinking that her claim was 
being allowed. 
GLI issued a final response in February 2021. They said that they had needed extra 
information from Ls vet and that high volumes of work delayed the claim. However, they 
were satisfied that the decision to decline the claim as a pre-existing condition was right. 
Mrs J brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into Mrs Js complaint. 
She thought that GLI had acted fairly in declining the claim but that GLI should pay Mrs J 
£50 for the trouble and upset caused by the delay in assessing the claims.  
   
Mrs J accepted our investigators view but we received no response from GLI, and so the 
case has come to me to review.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have decided to uphold Mrs Js complaint in part. I agree with the investigator that there 
was some delay in dealing with the claim, but that the decision to decline the claim was 
made fairly and reasonably. I will explain why below. 
In deciding this case I have to look at whether GLI have applied the terms and conditions of 
their policy correctly, and whether they have acted fairly and reasonably in declining the 
claim. 
I have seen all the correspondence between GLI and Mrs J and I have also seen all of Ls 
medical notes and GLIs internal notes. 
In Mrs Js policy it says, We will not pay for any pre-existing conditions. It provides a 
definition at page 27 of the policy which says:
Pre-existing conditions (anything your pet has had treatment, medication or advice for in the 
last 24 months) are a common cause of claims being turned down in this section. You can 
always call us if you are not sure about this definition.
The vet notes show that on 16 February 2020 L was taken to the vets with:
owners noticed LEFT lower jaw being swollen/bigger than RIGHT side. 
It was not possible to examine L but the notes show that the vet discussed toothroot 
abscess/broken tooth/foreign body, prescribed antibiotics and also discussed possible 
anaesthetic or sedation with an x-ray to determine the cause. 
L was not seen by the vet again until September 2020 when he was seen for an issue with a 
claw, but the jaw was also mentioned again and noted as: 
LHS mandible lesion  epulis? Is ulcerated as close to incisor, as causing constant 
discomfort and gets infected can cons sx removal . 
This lump was subsequently removed in October and sent for histology. After the regrowth, L 
was scanned and biopsied in December 2020 at the clinic.
GLI say that as the notes show the condition was present and treated prior to the policy 
inception in February 2020 it was pre-existing and is excluded from cover.  
I can see that at the time of the original appointment in February the lump was a suspected 
abscess and there was no indication that it was serious or would cause the problems that 
were experienced later in the year. However, the later problems were in the same area of 
the jaw and of the same nature. As there is no evidence that the original problem was 
actually an abscess, or that it ever went away, I consider that it is reasonable for GLI to treat 
it as the same underlying problem.  Under the terms of the policy it doesnt matter that there 
was no formal diagnosis in February, the exclusion would still apply as L had received 
treatment for a condition which was in the same area and causing the same issues, and so 
it seems more likely than not that they were linked.  
I therefore dont find that GLI have done anything wrong in declining the claim. 
Mrs J has also complained that GLI delayed in determining her first claim, which led her to 
believe that they were going to pay it, and had she known that it would be refused, she 
would not have incurred the additional expense of the second treatment. Whilst I appreciate that Mrs J has incurred significant expense in the treatment of L and that 
she may have made a different decision about proceeding if she had known the claim was 
going to be refused, I have reviewed the correspondence sent by GLI and I am satisfied that 
they didnt give Mrs J any assurances or indications that her first claim would be successful 
before they issued their decision in January 2021. They say that the claim is being assessed 
and information is being gathered from the vet, but dont say the claim will be paid. 
That said, there is some delay in making the decision to decline the clam. I appreciate that 
this was because of difficult circumstances at the time caused by working due to Covid 19, 
but this fell below the service standards that Mrs J was told to expect. 
 
Putting things right
 I agree with the investigator that GLI should pay Mrs J £50 for the delay in determining her 
claim.
 
My final decision
 My decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE should pay Mrs J £50 for the delay caused in 
determining her claim.    
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman