DRN-2227879
The complaint
Mr G complains about the fee Consumer Savings Network Limited (CSN) charged him for 
representing him in a claim. He says CSN didnt provide him with information in an 
accessible format, so he has been discriminated against because of his disability.
What happened
Mr G instructed CSN to represent him in a claim against a bank for a mis-sold investment. 
The claim was successful and CSN invoiced Mr G for its fee of 25% (plus VAT) of the 
settlement from the bank.
Mr G complained about the fee. He said CSN hadnt clearly explained how its fee would be 
calculated when he agreed to use its services. He wasnt offered any paperwork, including 
the terms and conditions, in an accessible format despite informing CSN that he was totally 
blind. He was expecting the 25% commission to be calculated on the amount CSN 
recovered in respect of the value of the loss on his investment. He didnt think he should also 
have to pay commission on the compensatory interest that was added to the award. CSN 
had recovered £59,000 on his behalf. Mr G believed CSN should base its commission on 
that amount. 
Mr G was also unhappy that CSN hadnt sought redress from the bank for neglecting to 
inform him a Personal Injury Trust (PIT) was the most appropriate form of investment for 
him. As a result, hed lost out on his means tested benefits. He felt that this should have 
been the basis of his initial claim.
CSN said the complaint against the lender was on the suitability of the investment. The issue 
of the PIT only came to light when the bank referred to it while investigating the mis-selling 
claim. CSN werent solicitors or trust experts and only became aware it was an issue when 
the bank brought it to its attention in response to the complaint. A claim against the lender 
for loss of benefit due to the banks omission about the PIT would be considered a new 
complaint against the bank. Mr G could pursue this himself at no cost. 
CSN believed it was entitled to receive its full fee of 25% (plus VAT) of the gross 
compensation awarded. But as a gesture of goodwill it was willing to reduce this to 20% 
(plus VAT) on the net total redress amount. This would reduce its fee of over £38,000 by 
about £11,000.
Mr G remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs concerns and thought his complaint should be upheld. 
She didnt think CSN had given Mr G clear enough information about how its fees would be 
calculated. Mr G was told he might get interest refunded as well as losses back (over the 
phone) but he wasnt told CSNs fee would be calculated on the total amount. CSN also 
hadnt provided its terms and conditions in a format that was accessible to him, given his 
disability. 
She didnt think CSN was wrong to only have progressed the investment mis-sale complaint 
because issues with the PIT didnt form part of its body of work.
Our investigator thought it would be fair for CSN to charge Mr G 25% (plus VAT) on the 
losses from his investment (and not the compensatory interest) as this is what Mr G was 
expecting to pay.
Mr G accepted our investigators recommendation. CSN agreed to reduce its fee to 25% 
(plus VAT) of the losses on the investment only. But it wanted assurance that Mr G would 
pay this within two weeks of accepting the offer from the bank or, if he didnt accept the offer, 
on receipt of CSNs invoice.
Mr G said he hadnt accepted the offer from the bank because hed raised a complaint about 
the money not going into a PIT. CSN said it was willing to wait for this other issue to be 
resolved with the bank before expecting payment of its fee. It said it would send Mr G an 
invoice (for around £17,000). But it had agreed to reduce the fees with the expectation that 
Mr G accepted the banks offer and paid the invoice within two weeks of receiving the 
settlement.
In the months that followed, CSN emailed our investigator several times for an update on   
Mr Gs second complaint with the bank. But Mr G didnt give us permission to share 
information about this with CSN.
In June 2020, CSN asked our investigator to get in touch with Mr G to ask him when he 
expected to receive payment from the bank for the work CSN had completed when 
representing him. CSN wanted to know when it could expect payment. It said it understood 
the bank had given a six month extension on its original offer which CSN believed expired in 
June. CSN thought Mr G should have accepted and received payment for the refund it 
secured for him. If he hadnt, CSN felt Mr G should explain why he had not accepted it yet 
and when he intended to do so.
Mr G said he didnt want our investigator to update CSN on progress of his PIT related 
complaint against the bank. He said hed get in touch with CSN once the matter with the 
bank had reached a conclusion. He said he was receiving emails from CSN and calls he 
wouldnt answer. He felt CSN was harassing him and wasnt adhering to what was agreed.
CSN started to send Mr G demands for payment. It told us it had found out Mr G had 
received a payment from the bank in early May. 
Mr G said that he received an interim payment into his bank account, but he couldnt access 
the money. The settlement from the bank needed to go into a PIT, so as not to affect his 
benefits. The account the money was sent into was frozen until a trust account could be 
opened. 
There had been a delay in setting up the PIT account because of COVID-19. Mr G told us 
that if the trust account had been opened, he would have made CSN aware of it. A cheque 
for CSNs fee could then have been issued by the two trustees for CSNs fee. Mr G said the 
payment from the bank wasnt an offer that had been accepted, it was just a payment. His 
complaint with the bank hadnt been resolved.
CSN told Mr G that it was contracted with him as an individual, not a trust and Mr G was 
obligated to pay its fee. It instructed a debt collection agency to recover it. It had applied 
interest at 8% per year dating back to November 2019 and added £1,600 debt collection 
fees. CSN said it would be willing to reduce the debt collection fees if Mr G paid in full by the 
end of July.As CSN and Mr G disagreed about when the fee needed to be paid, our investigator thought 
it would be best if Mr Gs complaint be passed to an ombudsman to decide. 
In the meantime, the payment from the bank was transferred into the trust account and Mr G 
arranged for CSNs fees to be paid. CSN said it had removed the interest and debt collection 
charges in exchange for acceptance that this was in full and final settlement. 
Mr G didnt think this was enough to resolve his complaint. He didnt think CSNs contract 
was fair or legally binding, because he didnt have the opportunity to review it in an 
accessible format so he could be fully aware of what he was signing up to. He said CSN had 
told him over the phone that he just had to sign a letter of authority to release information 
from the bank so CSN could look at his complaint against it. 
He didnt know it was a contract and he wasnt made aware of the charges and hidden 
extras to make an informed decision. If hed been given this information, he would have 
made enquiries to the bank himself and taken this complaint to the ombudsman service free 
of charge. 
Mr G feels that CSN has discriminated against him because it failed to provide the salient 
contractual information in a which was accessible to him and which it was obliged to do 
under relevant legislation. He says that CSN should have provided him with its terms and 
conditions in braille or an audio format or have emailed him a link to accessible information 
on its website so the terms and conditions could have been read out to him.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 September 2020 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint, but I didnt think CSN needed to do anything further to put things 
right. In that decision I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Gs complaint. But I think CSN has 
already done enough to put things right. So, I dont plan to ask it to do anything further. Ill 
explain why.
Mr G says he believes the contract he entered into with CSN is unfair and that he was a 
victim of disability discrimination.
The Equality Act 2010 says a person must not be treated less favourably because they have 
a disability. It also requires businesses to make reasonable adjustments to remove barriers 
to using their services.
 
As a service we take relevant law, amongst other things, into account when deciding whats 
fair and reasonable. But we dont have the power to decide if the Equality Act 2010 has been 
breached or if a contract is legally binding. These are matters for the courts.
So, what Ive needed to consider is whether CSN has acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Mr G. This includes thinking about whether its done enough to put things right after Mr G 
brought his complaint to our service.
Ive listened to the phone conversation that took place in May 2016 when Mr G first 
discussed the possibility of CSN helping him with his complaint against the bank. Mr G told 
CSN early on that he was blind. After discussing the claim, the CSN representative told Mr G 
he would send a letter of authority to him. He would need to sign and return it to CSN so it 
could request information from the bank.CSNs fee wasnt discussed in this initial call. But in December 2016, CSN phoned Mr G 
because it had received paperwork hed completed for another claims management 
company (CMC). CSN explained that they werent the same business. It said it would return 
the forms to Mr G and take him off CSNs books if he wanted the other CMC to represent 
him. But after CSN mentioned that the other CMCs fees were 35% (plus VAT) while CSNs 
fees were 25% (plus VAT), Mr G decided he wanted CSN to represent him in his claim. 
Further detail of how the fee would be calculated wasnt mentioned at this time.
So, I think CSN made it clear to Mr G in this call that its fee was 25% (plus VAT). It also 
made it clear that he didnt need to continue to use CSNs services. But Mr G indicated that 
he was happy for CSN to represent him.
Mr G was given the wrong information about the fee when he spoke to another CSN 
member of staff in February 2019. But I dont think this would have made a difference 
because this was more than two years after hed agreed for CSN to represent him. 
From what Ive seen and been told, CSN didnt send its terms and conditions to Mr G in an 
accessible format. While the fee of 25% (plus VAT) was mentioned before Mr G said he 
wanted CSN to progress his claim, compensatory interest wasnt mentioned. 
Given Mr Gs disability, I think CSN should have done more to ensure Mr G was aware of 
how it intended to calculate its fee. Im also persuaded by Mr Gs testimony that he thought 
the fee of 25% (plus VAT) would only be based on the amount CSN recovered in respect of 
the value of the loss on his investment.
But following our investigators involvement, CSN agreed to calculate its fee to exclude the 
compensatory interest. This resulted in a significant reduction in its fee to less than half the 
amount CSN had originally charged. I think this was fair, because this was what Mr G 
believed hed agreed to.
 
CSN also agreed to wait for the fee while Mr G pursued his complaint about the bank not 
putting the money in a PIT. I think this was reasonable. 
While CSN didnt do everything as it should have when Mr G first instructed it to represent 
him, I dont think he has lost out financially because of it.
I appreciate Mr G was upset when CSN started to pursue him for its fee in around June this 
year. This was around seven months after it had agreed to wait for him to receive the money 
from the bank. But from what I can see, CSN tried several times to get an update on the 
progress of Mr Gs second complaint with the bank. Mr G decided not to respond to contact 
from CSN or allow our investigator to update it on his behalf.
 
Without this information, I think its understandable that CSN started to resume recovery of 
its fee. It was aware that Mr G had received a payment from the bank in May 2020. I dont 
think CSN fully understood why Mr G couldnt access this money to pay its fee. And it might 
not have been fair for it to add on interest and debt collection fees. 
But since then, Mr G has been able to access the money and he has paid the fee. And CSN 
has removed the interest and debt collection fees. So again, I think this is fair and 
reasonable.  
   
Having considered everything Ive seen so far, I dont think CSN acted fairly when it charged 
Mr G its full fee of over £38,000. It was aware of Mr Gs disability and it should have 
provided its terms and conditions to him in an accessible format to enable him to make an 
informed decision on whether to instruct CSN to represent him. But CSN reduced its fee by almost £21,000 so that Mr G only had to pay what hed understood hed be charged. 
Moreover, its clear to me from the call I listened to that Mr G felt he was getting better value 
by asking CSN to represent him instead of the other CMC.
I appreciate Mr G didnt feel that CSN had stuck to its agreement to wait for him to receive 
the money from the bank before pursuing him for its fee. But I think CSNs actions were 
understandable because it had come to light that the bank had made a payment to Mr G, 
and he hadnt responded to CSNs requests for an update. CSN also removed the interest 
and debt collection charges it had added, when Mr G paid the fee. 
So overall, I think this matter has been resolved fairly and reasonably and I dont intend to 
ask CSN to do anything more.
I gave both parties the opportunity to provide any further information they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
CSN said it accepted the findings Id reached in my provisional decision. Since taking on    
Mr Gs case, it had taken steps to make sure it noted vulnerable people and would clearly 
explain fees on the phone in a similar situation.
Mr G said he didnt believe the contract he signed was legally binding because CSN did not 
take the utmost skill and care to point him to all the points within the contract so they could 
agree on it. CSN has now placed all the information on its website to make it accessible for 
disabled people, which he welcomed. But if he could have read the terms and conditions on 
CSNs website and weighed up his potential liability if he got compensation from the bank for 
his losses, he would not have agreed to the contract hed signed because of how much it 
cost. He would have turned to the ombudsman for a free service. 
Mr G also commented that Id drawn up a virtual contract for him to pay 25% (plus VAT) on 
his losses excluding compensatory interest. He didnt sign the virtual contract, which is what 
he believed to be true. He signed the one CSN led him to believe was the virtual contract. 
CSN knew Mr G was blind from the start.
Mr G felt I was acting as a mediator trying to please both parties.  He didnt believe he 
should have to pay any of the fees but was willing to not take the matter to court if CSN paid 
back half of what it had charged him. Hed only paid CSNs invoice because of its 
harassment.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G feels strongly that the contract he signed isnt legally binding and he shouldnt be liable 
for any of the fees CSN has charged him. But as I said in my provisional decision, the 
ombudsman service doesnt have the power to determine whether or not a contract is legally 
binding. This is a matter for the courts.
 
I appreciate Mr G didnt sign a contract agreeing to pay 25% (plus VAT) on his losses from 
the investment, excluding compensatory interest. The contract he signed was for the fee to 
be based on the full amount of compensation CSN recovered for him. But CSN didnt do 
enough to make Mr G aware of this, given his disability. And CSN has acknowledged this.What Ive needed to consider is whats fair and reasonable to put things right for Mr G. CSN 
did secure a settlement for Mr G from the bank. So, I think its fair for CSN to have charged 
Mr G a fee. But I dont think he should have been charged based on what it says in the 
contract because it wasnt presented to him in a way that met his needs. 
Mr G indicated in the telephone conversation of December 2016 that he wanted CSN to 
represent him and was willing to pay its fee of 25% (plus VAT) for it to do so. But he thought 
the fee would only be based on the amount CSN recovered in respect of the value of the 
loss on his investment (not including compensatory interest). 
Having considered Mr Gs points, I still think a fair outcome was for Mr G to pay CSN what 
he expected to be charged when he agreed for it to represent him, rather than what was in 
the contract. CSN already agreed to this after our investigator sent her view. This resulted in 
Mr Gs fee being reduced by almost £21,000. 
Putting things right
CSN has already reduced its fee to an amount I consider is fair and reasonable. It has also 
removed the interest and debt collection charges it had previously added. So, I dont require 
it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. But I think Consumer Savings 
Network Limited has already done enough to put things right, so it doesnt need to do 
anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman