DRN-3518922
The complaint
This complaint concerns Fairmead Insurance Limiteds (Fairmead) handling of a claim 
made under the late Mr Hs home insurance policy.
The complaint is now brought by the executors of the estate, who Ill refer to as Mr H2 as 
he has led the complaint with our Service.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known and has been detailed by our Investigator 
previously, so Ive summarised events. 
Mr H held a home insurance policy with Fairmead.
In June 2019 he contacted Fairmead to report malicious criminal damage to his 
property. The damage was extensive in nature.
A police report at the time referred to the property having been occupied by a tenant. 
Mr H disagreed with the accuracy of this police report, saying a custodian (that Ill 
refer to as Person A) had been looking after the property. And that Person A was not 
a tenant, as they had no requirement to pay bills or costs towards the property.
Fairmead considered the claim and declined it. It said the policy required the home to 
be occupied by the policyholder (Mr H) or a family member who lived with him. And in 
this instance, Person A didnt meet this requirement. It also said if it had known the 
property wouldve been occupied by a party who wasnt Mr H or his family, it wouldnt 
have offered the policy to begin with.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said the 
statement of facts document asked clear questions about whether the property would 
be occupied only by the proposer (Mr H) and family, to which hed answered yes. 
And hed answered no to a question asking if the property would be let on a full time 
or occasional basis. 
The Investigator highlighted that within a claim call Mr H had explained Person A was 
a regular occupier who was completing decorating works. And while she 
acknowledged Mr H disagreed with the polices comments, she felt it was reasonable 
for Fairmead to rely on them.
Sadly, Mr H passed away. Mr H2, representing Mr Hs estate, disagreed with the 
assessment. He said Fairmeads position was wrong and it should pay out for the 
damages in question.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Hs policy wording shows the insurance was set up to cover the property with Mr 
H as the proposer occupying the home, alongside any family. Im satisfied this is 
clear within the documentation provided to him, including the statement of fact. The 
policy also says the property will not be let on a full time or occasional basis.
From the documentation Ive been given, Im satisfied Mr H had confirmed the above 
circumstances were accurate when the insurance was taken out. 
Having reviewed Fairmeads underwriting guide, Im satisfied this insurance would 
only been sold where the property in question is the policyholders main home and 
not to be let or have occupancy from non-family members.
Mr H has said that the property was occupied by a custodian who was decorating the 
home for periods of time while Mr H was not residing there. And Mr H2 has indicated 
that the property was visited by him or Mr H at least once a fortnight. Mr H has 
disputed that Person A was a tenant.
When considering if Person As occupation of the property was against the policy 
terms, it seems to me theres little significance to whether he was a tenant or a 
custodian as simply he wasnt the policyholder nor a member of Mr Hs family. So, in 
either case, these circumstances do not meet the terms of the insurance  regardless 
of whether Mr H or Mr H2 were visiting the property regularly. 
Ive gone on to consider if the property was let for the purposes of the policy. Mr H 
has said the lack of a tenancy agreement meant the property wasnt being let. Ive 
not been given a formal agreement between Mr H and Person A to show a tenancy 
was in place, but this type of documentation isnt necessary for an agreement to 
exist. Based on Mr Hs description, it seems there was an agreement that Person A 
was allowed to live in the property in exchange for some type of services 
(decoration). 
I think its reasonable in these circumstances for Fairmead to consider this to be a 
landlord/tenant relationship  even if Mr H2 doesnt agree. Furthermore, Fairmead 
has relied on a police report that refers to Mr H being a tenant. 
Mr H had complained about the accuracy and wording of the polices comments  but 
its not for me to criticise the polices commentary, and Im satisfied it was 
unreasonable for Fairmead to consider and rely on this evidence.
For all of the above reasons, Im satisfied Fairmead has fairly declined this claim and 
cancelled the policy and Im not directing it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman