DRN-3843402
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs H complain that premiums Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
has charged for their pet insurance policy are too high.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs H have had pet insurance cover for their two dogs, J and M with RSA since 
2016.
In 2019, they made a claim because J had an infection of the jaw, which was treated with 
antibiotics. Shortly after this, they received a letter which referred to J having had an oral 
tumour. Mrs H phoned RSA and was told that the information would be corrected on its 
system.
In 2022, Mrs H complained to RSA about the premiums she was being charged for the past 
three years. She was surprised by how much theyd increased over that time period. She 
was convinced that RSA hadnt corrected the error it made when it recorded Js condition. 
She says shed asked RSA for a quote for her dogs for new pet insurance and it was much 
cheaper.
RSA said Mrs H hadnt been overcharged. An oral tumour and bacterial infection were 
perceived by RSA as the same risk. RSA said her renewal premiums reflected continuation 
of cover. It said its new policies wont provide cover for pre-existing conditions and have a14-
day exclusion period, from the policy start date. It said she might want to consider taking out 
a new business policy if she was comfortable she did not require cover for pre-existing 
conditions. 
RSA said it understood how the premiums may have come as a surprise to Mrs H. It 
appreciated it might not be possible for her to continue with the policy due to the amount 
they had increased and given they were likely to continue to increase. It paid her £250 to 
compensate her for any upset or inconvenience this had caused. 
Mrs H remained unhappy, so she asked our service to consider her complaint. Our 
investigator looked into her concerns but didnt think her complaint should be upheld. He 
thought the premiums were representative of the pets risk and RSA had communicated 
fairly with Mrs H regarding available options and considerations.
Mrs H disagreed with our investigators outcome. She felt the increase in the premium for J 
was disproportionate. She commented that RSA was taking advantage of existing customers 
for their loyalty. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr C and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Insurers are entitled to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide for 
the risks they agree to cover. Its not within the power of this service to tell an insurer that 
they are charging too much or require them to charge less. Similarly, individual consumers 
have a choice about which policy and which insurer they wish to take insurance with, or not 
to take insurance at all  unless its a requirement.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the 
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any 
medical conditions the pet had, or received treatment for, when the policy was taken out or 
renewed, so ongoing or recurring medical conditions usually wont be covered. 
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mr C and Mrs H took out, will continue to 
provide cover for conditions claimed for in previous policy years, so that treatment for 
recurring illness or injury will be covered until the maximum benefit has been reached. 
Providing this level of cover is expensive, so the yearly cost of these types of policies can go 
up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is made. And there is no limit to how much 
the premium could be.
Mrs H believes the premiums RSA have been charging since 2020 are incorrect because 
RSA recorded the incorrect illness for J. I can understand why Mrs H thinks this. However, 
RSA has provided evidence to show that this hasnt made a difference to its perceived risk 
or the premiums charged. So, I dont think RSA has mistakenly charged Mr C and Mrs H 
premiums that are too high.
RSA has provided evidence of how its calculated the premiums and Im satisfied that it 
treated Mr C and Mrs H fairly and the same as other customers.
Ive also thought about whether RSA gave Mr C and Mrs H clear information to help them 
make an informed choice when they took out the policy. RSA says Mr C and Mrs H initially 
took the policy out via a comparison site. Its provided a copy of the welcome letter it sent in 
2016. I dont think RSA clearly explained that premiums were likely to increase significantly 
as the pets got older and there was no limit to this. 
Ive thought about what would likely have happened if Mr C and Mrs H had been given better 
information when they initially took out the policy. They were taking out pet insurance, so 
they clearly wanted some type of cover for their pet. And, as they decided to take out a 
maximum benefit policy like this, I think they were interested in the greater level of cover it 
provided.
I accept that knowing more about how the cost of this policy might change in the future could 
have caused them to look for cover with an alternative provider. But, as providers of this type 
of insurance tend to operate in a similar way, I think its unlikely Mr C and Mrs H would have 
been able to find alternative cover that would have cost them significantly less. So, I think its 
likely they would still have taken out this policy.
The information RSA has provided at renewal in the last few years is clearer than in the 
documents it sent when Mr C and Mrs H first took out the policy in 2016. Even so, I can see 
how the premium increases would have come as a shock to them. However, I think the £250 
compensation RSA has paid them fairly recognises the distress and inconvenience caused 
by RSA not providing clear information when the policy was first taken out. So, while I know 
my answer will be disappointing for Mr C and Mrs H, I dont require RSA to do anything 
further.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr C and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman