The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) avoided his motor insurance 
policy. This meant his claim for theft wasnt covered.
What happened
Mr D bought a car insurance policy with RSA in February 2019. He bought the policy online 
through a price comparison website. In March 2019 Mr D contacted RSA to make a claim for 
theft. He said the vehicle had been stolen from his drive. 
RSA investigated, and after gathering some more information, told Mr D it was going to 
avoid the policy back to the start date. This meant no cover was in place at the time of the 
theft. RSA said it did this because Mr D had told it he was the registered keeper of the car 
when he bought the policy. But RSA had found the registered keeper was the business Mr D 
works as a consultant for, which Ill refer to as B. RSA said if it had known Mr D wasnt the 
registered keeper of the car it wouldnt have offered cover at all.
Mr D brought his case to our service. An investigator looked at what had happened. She 
didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She considered whether Mr D had 
taken reasonable care to provide correct information to RSA when he bought the policy. She 
didnt think he had. She said she was satisfied Mr D wasnt the registered keeper or the legal 
owner of the car. RSA had provided evidence to show it wouldnt have offered cover if Mr D 
wasnt the legal owner or the registered keeper, so she thought it had been reasonable for 
RSA to avoid the policy.
Mr D disagreed. He remained unhappy RSA avoided the policy. He said he had an 
agreement with the director of B that the vehicle was his. He explained that he was the 
person making finance payments towards the car. In his mind, the car was his. He also said 
he was never sent a policy document, so he couldnt see if anything stopped him insuring 
the car if he wasnt the registered keeper.
The investigator reconsidered, but she didnt change her mind. She was still satisfied RSA 
wouldnt have offered insurance if it had known Mr D wasnt the legal owner or registered 
keeper. Because an agreement couldnt be reached Mr D asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1557448Given RSA has said it wouldnt have offered cover to Mr D if it had known he wasnt the 
registered keeper Ive considered what the relevant law, the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) says. CIDRA makes clear that insurers 
need to ask clear questions, and consumers have a responsibility to take reasonable care 
when answering. 
This is so consumers take care not to make a qualifying misrepresentation when buying an 
insurance policy. A qualifying misrepresentation can be either deliberate or reckless, or 
careless. 
Mr D bought the policy online using a price comparison site. Ive considered the question
Mr D was asked and the answer he gave when applying for cover. 
Mr D was asked Are you (or will you be) the registered keeper and legal owner?. I think the 
question is clear enough for him to know he would need to consider both a) the registration 
of the car, and b) its legal owner, when answering. 
Ive been provided with a copy of DVLA documentation, specifically the V5 Certificate, which 
shows B is the registered keeper. Ive not seen anything to suggest a transfer of registration 
was made or attempted. So, based on what I have, Im satisfied that B was the registered 
keeper, not Mr D. 
Mr D says he owns the car. The car was being paid for through a finance agreement. Mr D 
said he paid the initial deposit and the subsequent monthly repayments. Mr D has also 
provided a letter signed by Bs director, which states that Mr D is the owner. Ive checked the 
finance agreement. It shows the finance was taken out by B, for B. The finance agreement 
doesnt mention Mr D in any capacity. 
When a car is acquired through a hire purchase agreement (as in this case) the finance 
company owns it until full repayment has been made. Under the terms of this finance 
agreement, a final balloon payment of around £19,000 was due 42 months after it was 
signed. Bs director signed the finance agreement in April 2016, so the balloon payment was 
still outstanding at the point the car was stolen. On that basis, Im satisfied that neither Mr D, 
nor B, was the legal owner when the policy was taken out (or when the theft occurred). 
Instead, the finance company was. 
Even if I accept that Mr D believed he was the legal owner because of his agreement with 
Bs director and the repayments hed made toward the car, Im satisfied that he wasnt the 
registered keeper. When he bought the policy Mr D was asked if he was the cars legal 
owner and registered keeper. If Mr D had been taking care when buying the insurance 
policy, I think he ought to have known he wasnt the registered keeper, and therefore 
answered the question he was asked accurately. I cant see that he did.
Overall, I think there was a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA due to a lack of 
reasonable care. On that basis, I think RSA was entitled to do what it would have done if
Mr D had taken reasonable care. Had it been provided with the correct information, and 
thereby known that Mr D wasnt the registered keeper and legal owner, RSA has said it 
wouldnt have offered cover. Ive seen its underwriting guide which satisfies me thats the 
case. So, Im satisfied RSA has acted in-line with the law, and I dont think its treated Mr D 
unfairly. 
As RSA has said it wouldnt have offered cover at all I think its fair that it should return the 
premiums Mr D paid. From RSAs notes I can see this has happened, so I dont think RSA 
needs to do anything more.Mr Ds said he didnt receive the policy documents, so he didnt know if anything precluded 
him from insuring the vehicle if he wasnt the registered keeper. But it was for Mr D to 
provide accurate information at the point of sale, not afterwards. Additionally, it doesnt 
appear that Mr D chased RSA for the policy documents, which its reasonable to think he 
wouldve done if he was concerned about not receiving them. Mr D has also said RSA didnt 
carry out due diligence. But its entitled to rely on what a customer says in response to the 
questions asked when the policy is taken out. Its also entitled to more thoroughly investigate 
matters if a claim is made if it wants to do so. Thats what RSA did in this case.
Mr Ds also asked that this case be decided in favour of B if its found that hes not the legal 
owner or registered keeper. But its not Bs case that Im deciding here, its Mr Ds. B isnt 
RSAs customer and, in any event, it wouldnt be able to complain to RSA about a policy in 
Mr Ds name. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Simon Louth
Ombudsman