DRN-2297378
The complaint
Mr A says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
the complaint. To keep things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr A took out in September 1997. It was 
added to his account when he applied for the card when he was shopping in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mr A is mainly concerned that PPI was added without his knowledge and he says his 
circumstances at the time meant he didnt need it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA has provided a copy of Mr As card application. I can see there is a separate section for 
PPI. 
I dont know what, if anything, was said about the PPI. But I think it wouldve been clear from 
the paperwork that it was up to Mr A to say if he wanted to have PPI added on. 
Theres a brief description of the cover offered and it says here on the form If you would like 
cover all you need do is tick the box below 
Mr A ticked to indicate that he wanted the cover. 
He couldve left this part of the form blank if he hadnt wanted PPI. And there were other 
optional features offered that Mr A didnt tick for. 
So I think he wouldve understood that having PPI was a matter of choice as well.
I would expect Mr A to have checked over the form carefully before signing up to this 
account  so I think he wouldve seen the PPI information which is reasonably clearly set out 
on the form. Mr A signed the completed application. So I think its fair to say that he must 
have agreed with the information on the form at the time. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think AXA made it clear that optional PPI was available with the 
store card and Mr A chose to take out the insurance  even if, understandably, he has 
forgotten this now. 
AXA had to give Mr A enough information about the policy for him to be able to decide if he 
wanted it or not. And if this didnt happen, Ive thought carefully about whether this would 
make any difference overall.
I dont know if the information AXA gave Mr A about the PPI was as clear as it shouldve 
been  including the costs and benefits of the policy. But, based on what I know about Mr As 
circumstances, it looks like the policy couldve been useful to him. 
AXA cant show me the policy document that was in use on the exact date that Mr A took out 
his PPI so Ive looked at a selection of policies to see what policy terms are likely to have 
applied when Mr A took out cover.
In the event of unemployment, accident or sickness it looks like the policy couldve paid a 
monthly benefit for as long as Mr A was off work  clearing the card balance outstanding at 
the start of the claim if Mr A wasnt well enough to go back to work. It couldve paid out for 
longer than Mr A couldve relied on his employer to pay him full sick pay. And the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of sick pay, which couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time if 
Mr A had extra costs as a result of being too sick or disabled to work  especially as he 
wouldve only got half his normal pay after 6 months off work sick. 
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. And if Mr A had 
needed to depend on social security money as his only income I think its likely he wouldve 
found PPI useful as it meant he wouldnt have to spend this making his store card monthly 
repayments. 
AXA didnt recommend PPI to Mr A  it was up to him to decide if he wanted the benefits the 
policy offered knowing what his financial situation was at the time. 
Taking into account what Mr A told us about his financial circumstances I think Mr A 
couldve found PPI useful so I can see why he mightve wanted it. 
I dont think having more information about policy exclusions and limitations wouldve made 
any difference to Mr As decision to take out PPI as these didnt affect Mr A. 
Mr A chose to take out the policy when he didnt have to  so he seems to have wanted it at 
the time, even if hes forgotten this now. He indicated on the application form that he was 
happy to pay for the policy when he ticked next to where it says: Yes, I would like to protect 
my Account with Account Cover. Please debit my Account with the relevant premium until 
further notice. And Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable for him when he took it 
out. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mr A, I think it unlikely he wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think hed still have 
taken out the policy. 
Ive also taken into account that Mr A says he thinks his case is similar to other cases that 
have been upheld. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt 
change my conclusion here.  Looked at overall, it doesnt look as if Mr A has lost out as a result of anything AXA did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman