DRN-2378189
The complaint
Mr N complains about the management of his pension plan portfolio by Open Door IFA 
Limited (Open Door). He says his investments werent controlled or managed. Mr N 
complains about the level of returns on his plan which he says werent competitive and 
caused by poor management.
Mr N says he asked Open Door to move his investments to faster growing funds, but it 
advised him against this course of action. He says his pension didnt accrue any growth over 
nearly two years.
So, Mr N says Open Door should refund its initial charge and the ongoing management 
charge he paid. 
What happened
Mr N met with a representative of Open Door in September 2017. A fact find was completed 
which recorded his financial circumstances and objectives. Mr N also completed an attitude 
to risk questionnaire. It recorded his attitude to risk as four- low to medium.
Mr N signed the Open Door IFA service charter on 19 November 2017 which set out the cost 
of its charges and the scope of the service it provided.  
On 27 November 2017 Open Door produced a suitability report  which recommended Mr N 
transfer his two existing pension plans into a new personal pension plan invested in a 
portfolio created by F.  
Mr Ns pension transfers took place at the end of November and the beginning of December 
2017 respectively and his pension funds were invested in the level four portfolio. 
On 18 January 2018 a new updated portfolio was applied to his plan. 
On 8 February 2018 Open Door informed Mr N by email that it had applied the new portfolio.
On 1 August 2018 there was a portfolio update and the holdings in Mr Ns portfolio were 
rebalanced.
In October 2018 Mr N met with Open Door to discuss his portfolio. 
On 10 November 2018 a further portfolio update was applied to Mr Ns plan. 
On 30 November 2018 an annual review was produced and sent to Mr N.
On 18 February 2019 a further portfolio update was applied to Mr Ns plan.
On 3 April 2019 a review of Mr Ns attitude to risk was carried out. Mr N completed a 
questionnaire and his pension portfolio was subsequently adjusted to level six.
In September 2019 Mr N stopped using the ongoing management service.
Mr N complained to Open Door in 2019. It issued a final response letter and didnt uphold his 
complaint. 
Open Door said Mr N had completed a financial risk questionnaire in September 2017  and 
they had discussed his attitude to risk  resulting in an assessment of level four, low to 
medium risk. It said this had been confirmed in the suitability letter it sent to Mr N in 
November 2017.
Open Door said Mr Ns plan was established by two pension transfers. It said the F Level 
four Portfolio was applied to his plan and reviewed on a regular basis and adjusted as 
necessary. Open Door pointed out that a new portfolio was created in January 2018 and this 
was applied to Mr Ns plan. It also said the portfolio was updated and his investments were 
rebalanced in August and November 2018.   
Open Door said an annual review pack was produced and sent to Mr N at the end of 
November 2018 and then a further update to the portfolio was applied in February 2019 and 
his investments were rebalanced. It said an attitude to risk questionnaire was completed in 
April 2019 and resulted in the portfolio being adjusted to level six.
So, Open Door said it had managed and controlled Mr Ns investments in accordance with 
the requirements of the terms of the agreement. It highlighted that the standard service it 
provided was a face to face meeting or telephone meeting, an annual report and an annual 
rebalance of holdings with an annual valuation. It said therefore that it had provided 
additional services over the above the annual service required under the agreement.  
Open Door didnt agree that the returns on Mr Ns plan werent competitive. It said 2018 had 
been far more volatile than 2017 and that had impacted investment returns. It cited events 
such as Brexit and events in the US and pointed to falls in various stock markets and in 
composite risk managed funds such as the ABI Mixed Investment Sector (using 20 to 60 
percent shares). 
It said overall, considering the turbulent market at the relevant time, Mr Ns investments had 
performed competitively. 
Mr N disagreed with Open Doors response and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ns complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.
She noted the terms of the agreement stated the adviser had responsibility to confirm the 
ongoing appropriateness of your portfolio against your attitude to risk and they had to 
provide a review of your investment performance against your objectives and 
circumstances. 
The investigator said the agreement gave no guarantee that Open Door would increase the 
value of Mr Ns plan or in relation to the amount of any increase. She said Open Door had to 
ensure the funds were suitable for Mr N.
The investigator noted that the adviser had assessed Mr N as having a low to medium risk 
profile and she said the initial advice appeared to be suitable for Mr Ns needs and he was 
happy with it. 
The investigator noted that Mr N raised concerns about the reduction in value of his plan in 
2018. She said that Open Door had referred to a stock market crash in February 2018. The 
investigator also said this type of investment was designed to be taken out over the long-term. The investigator said after initial charges and commission were taken from the fund at 
transfer, she wouldnt expect the value to rise substantially in the first six months.
The investigator noted Mr N had met with the adviser to discuss his investments and attitude 
to risk in October 2018. The adviser said Mr N was looking for greater returns but didnt want 
to accept the risk of losing any of the fund value. So, she concluded the adviser had been 
reluctant to increase the risk level of Mr Ns investments because of Mr Ns attitude to risk 
and the volatility of the market.
The investigator took into account the explanations provided by Open Door in respect of the 
volatility of the markets at that time caused by certain events such as Brexit. Overall, she felt 
that it had provided a reasonable explanation for the lack of growth over the period that Mr N 
had been using the ongoing management service. 
Mr N disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary he said:
The website of Open Door was full of encouraging descriptions of how it would look after the 
customers future and improve their investments. 
The adviser convinced him that his investment was in good hands.
The web site said Open Door would improve your pension. He said that could only mean 
one thing, that the pension would grow over time.
Over the period his pension was with Open Door his pension did not grow at all. In fact, after 
Open Door withdrew its fees the value actually went down
He said where a customer was paying for a good or service there was an implicit agreement 
that that good or service was fit for purpose. 
He said the adviser told him he could improve his pension. This was the service he was 
selling. He said that was the service the adviser promised he could deliver on his website. 
Mr N said that is why he agreed to pay Open Door £2,500. 
Mr N said he paid the adviser to manage his pension fund using his best skill, knowledge 
and judgement. And he said the only measure for success was that the fund increased in 
value.
He said the adviser simply put the fund into a mixed portfolio in S and didnt make any 
changes despite Mr N and his wife repeatedly asking why things were not improving. 
Mr N said he was provided with excuses such as the markets are tricky right now.
He said he changed his risk category and asked the adviser to do something to achieve 
some rise in value. He said he eventually gave up and cancelled the ongoing management 
service. 
Mr N said once he took over the running of his fund, he doubled its size. He pointed out this 
was without having any financial training or knowledge and what he described as some of 
the worst economic conditions in living memory.
Mr N said at no point did Open Door draw his attention to the fact the fund was flatlining. He 
also complains the adviser didnt suggest a different strategy. He said Open Door promised results and shouldnt be able to use contractual small print to, 
in effect, avoid responsibility. 
He said he may have been more understanding if the adviser had explained to him that it 
may be highly unlikely he would see any growth for many years, rather than convincing Mr N 
that he could expect to see immediate growth.
Overall, he felt Open Door provided poor financial advice and failed to address and act upon 
his concerns. 
As no agreement could be reached Mr Ns complaint was referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N met with Open Door in September 2017 to discuss transferring his existing pension 
plans to a new pension plan. Mr N was in his mid-50s, married and director of his own 
business. It was recorded that he and his wife owned their own home, a commercial property 
and a residential investment property - for which they were receiving an income.  Mr N still 
had a number of years remaining until retirement and he was looking at a flexible retirement 
rather than stopping work completely. 
Mr N held a personal pension plan with R and a section 32 buyout pension plan with F.  Both 
were paid up pension plans. The buyout plan didnt have a guaranteed annuity rate (GAR) or 
guaranteed minimum pension as benefits of the plan.
 
Mr N completed an attitude to risk questionnaire which gave him a score that put him as low 
medium risk. The adviser also took into account Mr Ns investment experience and his 
circumstances and overall assessed his attitude to risk as low medium. 
A description of what that meant was set out in the suitability letter issued to Mr N. It said:
People in this category have a low-medium risk tolerance and are likely to be concerned 
about the possibility of losing money, but do not want to completely ignore the possibility of 
making higher returns. You may have some experience of investment products, or may 
value capital security over high returns. You probably want greater returns than are offered 
by bank accounts and other low risk investments, and therefore are prepared to accept 
some fluctuation in return for potential growth in products such as Fixed Interest Securities, 
Property, UK Equity or International Equity and realise that these are likely to be better for 
longer-term returns. You could get back less than you invested.
It should be noted that the risk category described is based on a medium term investment (5 
years+). Increasing the length of time an investment is held tends to reduce investment risk 
and the chance, and/or extent, of any loss being realised.  
I can see that Mr N had some financial experience in that he ran his own business and 
owned a rental property. I also note it was recorded in the suitability report that Mr N had 
stated he had some knowledge and experience of financial products.  But I dont consider 
there is anything to suggest he had more than limited investment experience. 
Mr N was in his mid-50s and looking to improve his pension pot over the medium to long-
term. There is limited information recorded about his income at that time, but the adviser 
noted that he was financially stable. I also note the adviser considered Mr Ns capacity for 
loss and said Mr N had said he could afford to lose between 8  10% of the value of his fund if the markets didnt perform as anticipated. I also take into account the answers he gave to 
the questionnaire which would suggest he wasnt willing to take a significant level of risk. For 
instance, Mr N strongly agreed that he would worry a great deal if he thought he would lose 
money in an investment and agreed with the statement I would be anxious if I saw my 
investments had gone down in value. He also disagreed with the statement I would be 
happy to risk loses to get potentially greater long-term gains.
    
Overall, I dont consider an assessment of being prepared to take a low to medium risk was 
unsuitable taking into account his circumstances and objectives. I am also satisfied on 
balance that the fund recommended was broadly in line with his attitude to risk. I note it 
contained a spread of investments with a reasonable proportion of UK equities and lower 
risk funds such as fixed interest and cash funds.  
Open Door looked at Mr Ns existing pension plans, and in the suitability report, it reviewed 
the features of those plans and compared them with the features provided with the new plan. 
In relation to the existing plans it said: 
The selected investment fund choices do not match your declared low-medium risk profile 
and whilst you could alter your fund choices internally as required, you would prefer to adopt 
a specific managed strategy going forward. The more limited fund choices and functionality 
mean that these plans cannot meet your longer term needs. You are looking to adopt an 
alternative asset allocation  strategy  going forward  that  matches  your  risk profile,  with 
greater  diversification of sectors held, regular rebalancing and ongoing advice available at 
any time.
and 
The existing pension plans held have not  incorporated the Freedom in Pensions legislation 
and as such you will have limited options when taking benefits.  Although F, can offer a  
similar  contract  to  the  recommended  plan,  a  full  market  review  of  all  options  
available  is appropriate to ensure any recommended plan can meet your requirements over 
the longer term.
I note the value of the R plan (about £64,000) was more than three times the value of the F 
Plan (about £19,000) so a lack of flexibility within that plan would have been significant in 
relation to Mr Ns pension pot.
Mr N had also indicated that he was looking at making employer contributions to his pension 
but was not confident in using his existing paid-up pension plans to do so. It was recorded 
that: 
You appreciate the need to develop your retirement provision as you work towards stopping 
work. You would like to start making meaningful contributions towards your specific 
retirement provision but you do not have the confidence in your existing provision to do so.  
As such you are looking to hold a modern and support plan that will allow you to build up 
your confidence levels and then make additional contributions as cash flow allows.
In addition, if the pension plans had been paid up for a number of years it was unlikely that 
Mr N would have been able to make further contributions to them and it was specifically 
noted that he was unable to make further contributions into the F plan. 
Mr N was provided with illustrations which compared the potential returns on his existing and 
recommended plans at different assumed growth rates. In these projections account was 
taken of the impact of the charges on the new plan  for instance the initial advice and 
setting up charge of 3 percent and the ongoing advice charge of 0.5 percent per annum. At 
the projected growth rate of 5.54 percent there was a significant increase in the potential return for the recommended plan as compared to the existing plans, if the ongoing advice 
charge was disregarded as this was an additional optional charge which could be cancelled 
and not a service available on Mr Ns existing plans.  
I also note the charges on the new recommended plan werent uncompetitive when 
compared to the existing plan charges of 1.3 percent and 1.5 percent per annum 
respectively, together with a monthly plan fee. 
I can see those growth comparisons were set out in the suitability letter and in the 
illustrations provided to Mr N.  And I consider Mr N was also interested in the other features 
of the new recommended plan.
I think Mr N was looking for the flexibility provided by the new plan enabling him to access 
flexible drawdown which wasnt offered by both of his existing plans. I note it was recorded 
that he wanted the ability to access the monies from when he reached 55 years. He was 
also looking for a wider range of funds and the option to make further contributions into his 
plan from his company.  I am also satisfied on balance that he was interested in the ongoing 
management of his funds.  
The adviser considered several different options for a new plan including a Stakeholder 
pension plan and a Self-Invested Personal Plan. 
In the suitability report he said:
Having analysed  these options I have recommended  the most suitable product  for you to  
be a Personal  Pension  Plan  held  with  S.  Although  S  offer  a  basic Stakeholder Pension 
arrangement there is a limited fund choice and no flexible options as available under the 
Personal Pension Plan. You wish to invest in a range of assets within one plan that will allow 
you to control and monitor the investment performance being achieved more readily. You 
would prefer to adopt an asset allocation investment strategy to potentially benefit from 
superior returns prior to taking retirement benefits.
I consider there were some disadvantages in transferring the existing plans  namely a 
penalty fee Mr N would have to pay in respect of the R plan and the cost of the initial advice 
which was deducted from the plan and would have to be recouped through investment 
performance over the longer term. 
However, I note the existing plans didnt provide valuable benefits such as a guaranteed 
annuity rate (GAR), guaranteed growth rates or a guaranteed minimum pension. I also think 
Mr N was looking for greater flexibility and a larger choice of funds. The new recommended 
plan was flexible and had a large choice of funds and gave him the option to make further 
contributions. He also had some years until retirement which gave the plan time to achieve a 
return and negate the impact of the initial advice fee. So, overall, I dont consider the 
recommendation to transfer was unsuitable taking into account Mr Ns objectives and 
circumstances. 
And I also note that since September 2019 Mr N has managed to use the new 
recommended plan to make a level of return that he is happy with and he hasnt complained 
about the plan itself.  So, I think it is really the management of his plan from November 2017 
to September 2017 that he is unhappy with and, in particular, the decision not to change the 
funds within his plan.  Charges paid by Mr N
Mr N is seeking a refund of the charges he paid Open Door. So, it is important to look at the 
agreement between the parties to see to what services would be provided in exchange for 
those charges. 
Mr N has paid Open Door two types of charges.  The first was an initial, one-off charge of 3 
percent of the value of the amount invested, which amounted to about £2,500. The second 
was an ongoing management charge which was 0.5 percent of the investment value per 
year but paid monthly. That was an optional service which could be cancelled.    
Ive addressed each in turn below.  
Initial charge
Mr N signed an agreement with Open Door which set out the extent and scope of the service 
it provided.
That agreement stated that there was no charge for the initial consultation meeting with 
Open Door. But after Mr N had decided to proceed with its service, there was an initial 
charge which was paid to Open Door to carry out research and analysis, to provide a full 
financial planning report and for implementation of the recommendation. In other words, for it 
to arrange any transfers and set up the plan.  
I can see that Open Door carried out all those tasks  it researched and reviewed Mr Ns 
existing plans, produced a detailed financial planning report and set up the new plan. So, it 
should be entitled to its initial fee unless the service it provided was of such low quality as to 
provide no benefit at all. 
Mr N says the service wasnt fit for purpose as his plan didnt make a return in that initial 
period of about 22 months. But I dont think that was the agreement between Mr N and Open 
Door. 
I accept that financial businesses will describe their services in a very positive light in the 
marketing material they use but I dont think that constitutes a promise to make a positive 
return on your investment within a specified period or even at all. The whole nature of these 
kinds of investments is that there is a risk of a negative return, or no return, unless you opt 
for a guaranteed product. And I think it was made clear to Mr N in the documentation 
provided in the advice process that there was a risk of no return or a loss. 
In addition, this type of plan was designed for the medium to long term so it wouldnt 
necessarily be expected to produce a positive return in the first year or so.  Mr N was paying 
a charge of 3 percent in that first year in addition to the 0.5 percent ongoing management 
fee and the plan and fund fees. So, his plan would have to do particularly well in that first 
year, to overcome the impact of those fees.
Moreover, Open Door has explained that the market was particularly volatile in that first year 
because of several events such as Brexit and trading issues between different countries 
which caused falls in a number of stock markets. So, that made it even more difficult for     
Mr Ns plan to achieve a positive return overall. So, Im not persuaded on balance that the lack of investment return during the first couple of 
years of the plan mean Open Door should refund its initial fee of 3 percent of the transfer 
value.       
The ongoing management service charge 
As I have said Mr N paid a 0.5 percent annual charge for an ongoing management service. 
That service was described in the agreement as follows:
As a minimum our on-going management service will provide:  
    The offer of a face, telephone review meeting or report at least annually which we will 
contact you to arrange. The review will include:
o     To confirm the ongoing appropriateness of your portfolio against your attitude to risk
o     A review of your investment performance against your objectives and circumstances
      An annual rebalancing of your portfolio, if required
      Annual valuations
I think that document was important because it set out what each party agreed to do. 
Mr N says his funds werent properly managed and they were left in the same funds despite 
Mr N repeatedly raising concerns and asking to switch to different, faster-growing funds.
I can see that Mr Ns portfolio was updated in January 2018, August 2018, November 2018 
and February 2019 and his investments were also rebalanced on a number of occasions. 
Open Door wrote to Mr N regularly indicating that it had carried out checks on the market 
and his funds to ensure they were in line with his attitude to risk. 
I can also see that when Mr N and his wife raised concerns about the return on his plan 
Open Door explained that the market in 2018 was particularly volatile as a result of Brexit 
and other events in the US and China. 
Mr N contacted Open Door in September 2018 to raise his concerns and he indicated that 
he wanted to meet the adviser to discuss them. A meeting took place in October 2018. 
Unfortunately, there arent any notes of that meeting, but Open Door says that Mr Ns 
attitude to risk was discussed. It says Mr N wanted to increase the returns on his plan but 
didnt want to risk losing the value of his fund. So, Open Door didnt recommend moving his 
funds to riskier investments, which might be able to achieve greater returns but risked 
potentially greater losses.   
I can also see that an annual review pack was sent to Mr D in December 2018 which gave 
some explanation about the level of the returns and the difficult market conditions at that 
time. Open Door said:
The instability of the markets and their volatility has meant that we have not seen the flight 
to safety that would be expected and the increase in the value of safer holdings that would 
come with this flight. The classic supply and demand effect on the values of safe holdings 
has not yet happened and there are no signs when or even if this will be triggered. 
For most investors this has resulted in a low level of returns as their risk based holdings 
have shown a flat return over the year due to the stock markets falling and no increase in the 
value of their safer holdings as there has been no movement to them.
Open Door also confirmed that it was reviewing the position on a quarterly basis and 
adjusting Mr Ns plan accordingly and in line with his attitude to risk.   
Open Door then wrote to Mr N in March 2019 confirming it had carried out a review of his 
holdings. Then a further attitude to risk assessment took place in April 2019. The adviser wrote to Mr N and said although his attitude to risk had been assessed at about seven, he 
felt that the portfolio should stay at level four because of the uncertainty caused by Brexit 
position at that time. 
The adviser said:
To my mind we are not in a climate to take risk, as of December of the 300 world wide 
Investment Indexes that cover stock markets as well as Fixed Interest, Gilts, property etc 
261 of them were showing a negative return for the year. This reflects the poor state that the 
world economy is currently in, hence my view that you want to be light in the market and not 
Heavy at this time. 
Mr N then wrote to Open Door asking for his portfolio to be moved to a portfolio with a risk 
level of about six. He said he understood the current climate wasnt great, but he was 
hopeful things would pick up. 
Mr Ns plan was then moved to the level six portfolio. 
So, I am satisfied on balance that Open Door fulfilled the service as agreed in the service 
charter signed by Mr N. I am satisfied that reviews and rebalancing of his portfolio took place 
and there was a meeting and annual review in addition to a further assessment of his 
attitude to risk.    
In addition, I dont think Open Door just left Mr Ns funds as they were.  The portfolio was 
being updated regularly and specific consideration was given, for instance in October and 
November 2018 and in April 2019, as to whether Mr Ns portfolio should be changed. 
Sometimes advice can be that the best option is to least things as they are- that still amounts 
to advice, even if it doesnt result in any action being taken as such. 
Whether the level of risk should have been increased at an earlier stage
I dont think there was anything in Mr Ns circumstances and objectives at the time of the 
original recommendation to indicate that he was willing to take a higher level of risk than the 
investments recommended or that his capacity for loss allowed him to take an increased 
level of risk.  
I appreciate that as time went on Mr N became increasingly frustrated with the level of 
returns on his investments. But the risk of moving to more aggressive funds with potentially 
higher returns was that there was a greater risk of losses- particularly in a volatile market. 
So, I can understand Open Doors reluctance to move Mr Ns portfolio to higher risk funds. 
It appears the decision to increase the risk level of his portfolio was eventually taken in April 
2019 having had a number of discussions and a further assessment of risk. Overall, I think 
that was a reasonable approach and I dont think it would have been prudent to rush to 
change to riskier funds when the original funds had only been in place for a short time and 
without proper discussion and assessment of Mr Ns attitude to risk to ensure he understood 
and was content to take a higher level of risk.  
I also note that Open Door has provided fund performance sheets for the higher risk F funds 
(level six and seven) which show that the returns for 2018 were lower than the return on the 
level four lower risk fund Mr N was invested in. So, if the change had been made earlier, I 
dont think it would have resulted in a better return.  While I do sympathise with Mr Ns disappointment at the level of return on his plan in those 
initial 22 months, Im not persuaded on balance that Open Door failed to provide the ongoing 
management service as set out in the agreement. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against Open Door IFA Limited for the 
reasons outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
 
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman