DRN-3739133
The complaint
Ms B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt agreed to refund amounts shes reported as 
lost to an investment scam. 
What happened
Ms B fell victim to an online scam with company R. She invested in R by moving her money 
to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange and then into what she understood was a genuine 
investment. R enabled her to work with others as a team to earn commission, so she lent 
money to a number of family members for them to invest too.
Ms B realised shed been the victim of a scam when she wasnt able to withdraw from the 
investment. She paid tax as requested by R, but received no funds in return. Ms Bs 
complaint covers transfers she made to her family members, for her them to invest in the 
same opportunity, as well as her own payments.
Lloyds didnt uphold her complaint or refund her any money, so Ms B came to our service. 
Our investigator didnt think that Lloyds had done anything wrong, so Ms B asked for an 
ombudsman to review her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Ms B unfortunately has been the victim of a scam. Its clear from the 
information shes provided about R, both from the regulator and her experience, that it 
wasnt operating legitimately. But that doesnt mean Lloyds then needs to reimburse her. We 
have to consider whether it shouldve been concerned about the payments Ms B was 
making, and if so, if it then couldve unravelled this scam and prevented her losses.
It's important to note that Ms B never directly pays R. She makes payments to this scam via 
a genuine cryptocurrency exchange. And shes used this exchange a number of times prior 
to getting involved with R and continues to use it after she realises shes been scammed by 
R. So while Ms B has said Lloyds shouldve warned her about R, it didnt know she was 
dealing with R when she made the cryptocurrency payments. Ms B however did know the 
name of the firm and yet didnt look it up until after the scam, when she found warnings 
about it online pre-dating her investment. Lloyds only knew she was paying the genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange, a known payee.
Ms Bs first reported payments relating to this scam are transfers to her family members. I 
dont consider these payments out of character for Ms B  shes paid these members of her 
family many times before. And has made payments and transfers for much higher values 
than this in the months leading up to the scam, for example she makes a faster payment for 
£15,000 in February 2021 and payments of £4,000 and £5,000 in May 2021. So I dont think 
there was any reason for Lloyds to intervene on the amounts Ms B sent to her family, a few 
days before she invested herself in the scam.
Ive then looked at her investment payments. As set out above, Ms B pays a cryptocurrency 
exchange, not R, then moves the money to R from the exchange. Ms B sends two payments 
to the exchange to invest in R, £1,979.71 and £5,149.40. And then a further payment which 
she believes is for tax of £1,169.91. But I dont consider Lloyds needed to intervene on any 
of these payments.
As explained, Ms B has been using this exchange since before this scam. She sent a 
payment of £5,025.46 to it in April 2021. And she sent four lower value payments on the 
same day to it in May 2021. So its an established payee. And Ive already set out the high 
value payments that leave Ms Bs account in February and May 2021, so I cant say that any 
of the payments to this scam were uncharacteristic or unusual for Ms Bs account. This 
means that Lloyds didnt need to intervene on the payment, so it didnt miss an opportunity 
to ask Ms B further questions about what she was doing. This then means I cant say it 
missed an opportunity to unravel this scam.
Ive then considered whether Ms Bs funds couldve been recovered by Lloyds when she 
informed it shed been the victim of a scam. But as she paid her own account with the 
genuine exchange and not R directly, this wasnt possible. The cryptocurrency exchange did 
provide Ms B with the service she paid for, so Ms B couldnt successfully make a 
chargeback claim for these funds. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman