DRN-2454297
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain Aviva Insurance Limited have declined their buildings insurance 
claim.
All references to Aviva also include their agents.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
Around December 2019, Mr and Mrs D noticed cracking in flooring and on a supporting wall 
near the staircase of their property. They noticed the staircase had moved slightly and 
spindles had become loose.  
Mr and Mrs D hired a contractor to inspect the damage. They removed tiles from the floor 
and discovered a pool of water underneath  which was identified as causing the damage.
Mr and Mrs D submitted a claim to Aviva.
Aviva attended Mr and Mrs Ds property to carry out an inspection. Following this they 
declined Mr and Mrs Ds claim, they said the damage was caused by gradual deterioration 
so was excluded under the policy.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with this and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator recommended Mr and Mrs Ds claim be upheld. She said Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have been aware of the damage happening gradually  and wouldnt have been 
evident to them until they made the claim.  So she didnt think it was fair for Aviva to rely on 
the exclusion to decline the claim.
Aviva didnt agree with our investigator. They reiterated their points that the exclusion 
applied and said the cause of the ingress could not be said to be because of one specific 
event - such as a storm.
The complaint then passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 21 December 2020. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing to Mr and Mrs D, but Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D hold an all-risks policy - which means this covers all risks of damage, unless 
an exclusion applies.
Aviva have relied on the following exclusion when Mr and Mrs Ds claim:
We do not cover:
i. Loss or damage caused by or resulting from: 
a. wear and tear or gradual deterioration, inherent defect, rust or oxidation, moth or vermin, 
normal settlement, warping or shrinkage, rot, fungus, mould or infestation
For standard policies, which cover specific perils, our services usual approach to gradual 
deterioration exclusions is if the consumer couldnt have been reasonably aware of the 
damage happening gradually, a fair and reasonable outcome is the insurer cant rely on the 
exclusion.
When someone holds an all-risks policy, we have a slightly different approach. In these 
cases, we usually say the consumer shouldnt be worse off than someone with a standard 
policy, if they were both in the same situation. In other words, it would be unfair for an 
insurer to turn down a claim using the gradual damage exclusion, if the damage would be 
covered under a standard perils policy, and the consumer wasnt aware of the damage 
happening.
In Mr and Mrs Ds case, theres no evidence a peril which would usually be covered under a 
standard insurance policy happened here. Aviva said there wasnt any evidence storm 
conditions specifically caused the ingress and therefore the damage. And from looking at the 
report and photos provided by Aviva theyre conclusion is not obviously wrong. The photos 
provided show the damage described which includes cracking and wooden beams that show 
clear signs of rot  which is something that generally tends to happen over a period of time, 
and not by a one-off event such as a storm. 
So, because of this Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs D are at a disadvantage to someone with 
a standard policy in the same situation. So consequently, Aviva is able to rely on the 
exclusion in these circumstances to decline Mr and Mrs Ds claim.
Aviva responded to say they accepted my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree with my provisional findings. They said the cover they took out 
was better than that offered by a standard policy  and all forms of water damage are 
covered. They said they had no knowledge of any issues until the deterioration occurred.
They didnt agree the damage was gradual and occurred over time. They said while water 
coming down the steep hill of the property could exist, it didnt affect other parts of the 
propertys ground floor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the comments Mr and Mrs D have made about the level of cover they took. But 
as Ive explained, an all-risks policy covers all risks of damage, unless an exclusion applies. 
Mr and Mrs D said no other parts of the ground floor had been impacted and said there was 
no indication the issue had happened on more than one occasion - or over a period of time, 
But in making my decision, I have to rely on opinions provided by experts. And from the 
information Ive seen, with nothing of similar standing to the contrary, Im not persuaded the damage was due to a one-off event. The photos of the damage provided show clear signs of 
rot  which is something that generally tends to happen over a period, and not by a one-off 
event. 
In this case Aviva have applied the wear and tear exclusion to decline the claim and, as Ive 
explained in my provisional findings, I wont be interfering for with their decision for the 
reasons previously given.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman