DRN-4500952
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs W were due to go on holiday in mid-September 2022. The trip was booked 
shortly before they were due to travel. A few days after they booked Mrs Ws mother sadly 
died and so they were unable to travel as planned. 
Admiral declined their claim for their unused holiday because they said Mrs Ws mother had 
a pre-existing medical condition and was excluded under the policy terms. Mrs W 
complained about the decline of the claim and the slow process. Admiral maintained their 
decision to decline the claim was fair. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She 
thought Admiral had reasonably declined the claim on the basis of the available medical 
evidence. And she was satisfied that the claim was been progressed within a reasonable 
timescale, once the relevant evidence was received. 
Mr and Mrs W didnt agree. They said there was no way that the death could have been 
foreseen and there was no terminal diagnosis. They also said that the medical certificate 
didnt list Alcoholic Liver Disease as a pre-existing condition or a condition that was being 
treated in the last 24 months. They highlighted that medication was given to stop the use of 
alcohol. This information didnt change the investigators thoughts about the overall outcome 
of the complaint and so the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Admiral has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
We will not pay for any claim related to a pre-existing medical condition of other 
people whose health may affect your decision to travel or remain overseas such as a 
close relative, travel companion, close business associate or any person who you 
have arranged to stay with which they had at the start or renewal of your policy or 
when you booked a trip (whichever is later). 
You can make a claim if you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of their 
death, serious illness or serious injury, providing its no related directly or indirectly to 
any pre-existing medical condition (see Section 2). 
This is also set out under the cancellation section of cover which says there is no cover for 
any claim related to: 
A pre-existing medical condition of other people whose health may affect your 
decision to travel or remain overseas, such as a close relative, travel companion, 
close business associate or person you have arranged to stay with, which they had 
at the start or renewal of your policy or when you booked a trip (whichever is later). 
Pre-existing medical condition is defined as: 
Any disease, illness or injury that you or any insured person (or any person your trip 
depends on) has, when arranging or renewing your policy, or when you book a trip 
(whichever is later). 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The holiday was booked in September 2022. The medical certificate refers to 
Mrs Ws mother having liver function tests and trying to stop alcohol in May 2021. 
There is further reference to this in July 2021. The medical certificate also notes that 
she was taking medication for alcohol mis-use within the previous 24 months and 
had a history of alcohol abuse. 
The holiday was booked in September 2022, a few days before Mrs Ws mother died. 
And the annual policy was taken out the same day she died. 
The medical certificate said the cause of death was recorded as sudden cardiac 
arrythmia and history of chronic alcohol dependency. The coroners preliminary 
report referred to Alcoholic Liver Disease. The final report referred to Ketoacidosis 
Associated with Alcoholic Liver Disease. 
I think it was reasonable for Admiral to conclude that the claim was related to a pre-
existing medical condition based on the above evidence. Mrs Ws mother had been 
receiving treatment and her history of alcohol misuse is clearly noted on her medical 
history. As the coroner concluded that the cause of death was ketoacidosis 
associated with alcoholic liver disease I think Admiral reasonably concluded the 
exclusion applied. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs W have said about Mrs W taking medication to stop 
drinking alcohol. But I think that indicates that Mrs W was receiving treatment and 
support with her alcohol use. So, Im still satisfied the condition was pre-existing and 
that Admiral fairly declined the claim.  
Taking all of the above into account I think its reasonable to conclude the condition 
which caused Mrs Ws mothers death, either directly or indirectly, was present at the 
time of booking the trip or taking out the policy. 
I dont think there were unreasonable delays in assessing the claim. It took some 
time for all the medical evidence to be made available and I think Admiral assessed 
the claim within a reasonable time frame upon receipt of it. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman