DRN-4095947
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd 
(C&G) unfairly declined a claim under their pet insurance policy and added an unfair 
exclusion to the policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M first took out insurance for their dog with C&G on 12 October 2019.
In June 2020 they took the dog to the vet because of dental problems. The vet noted at the 
time that the dogs back legs were lame.
The policy was renewed in October 2020 and 2021.
In April 2022 Mr and Mrs M noticed that the dog was walking oddly and dragging his back 
legs. He was diagnosed with and treated for spondylosis of the spine.
Mr and Mrs M claimed for the cost of the treatment. C&G declined the claim. It said the 
policy only covered conditions for up to 12 months from the onset of the condition. It said the 
dog had suffered from lameness and stiff limbs in June 2020. It also said it was adding an 
exclusion to the policy with effect from the 2020 renewal for Degenerative Disease and any 
associated conditions.
As Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this response, they brought their complaint to this 
service. Our investigator thought C&G had acted fairly in declining their claim. But she 
thought C&G ought to remove the exclusion for degenerative disease and instead apply the 
appropriate exclusion for lameness.
Mr and Mrs M have asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This policy is known as a non-lifetime policy. The terms state under What is insured?:
Under Our Essential Policy -Vet fees including Complimentary Therapy, You can claim 
per Condition up to the Benefit Limit of £1,000 for a maximum period of 12 months from 
the date the first Symptom and/or Clinical Sign was noticed, or Treatment started, 
whichever happens first (less the applicable Excess).
Once the12 months has passed, or the Benefit Limit has been reached, no further cover 
will be provided for that Condition, even for future renewals.
This is a normal term or restriction in this sort of policy. Im satisfied that the policy 
paperwork made this sufficiently clear.
C&G has declined this claim because it says Mr and Mrs M made the claim more than 12 
months after the date the first symptom of clinical sign of spondylosis was noticed. 
The vets notes from 5 June 2020 say that the dog was stiff on legs and had chronic 
bilateral hindlimb lameness. The vet said theyd discussed the option of x-rays of the limbs 
while the dog was under general anaesthetic for dental treatment but Client opted to hold off 
x-rays for now.
Mr and Mrs M say spondylosis is a degenerative disease that affects older dogs. Their vet 
has advised that spondylosis is a degenerative joint disease that can be caused by many 
things such as trauma, infection, the bodies own immune system, through repetitive stress 
as well as, of course, age. The vet said this condition affects the spine and not the limbs or 
other joints. I have no reason to doubt that this is correct.
Prior to 2022 the dog had not been formally diagnosed with or treated for spondylosis. 
However, for the purposes of the policy its not the cause of the condition thats relevant but 
rather the date that symptoms or clinical signs of spondylosis first appeared. 
C&G has provided clinical evidence of the symptoms of spondylosis in dogs. It says some of 
the common symptoms include stiff movement and lameness or limping. It seems clear from 
the vets history that Mr and Mrs Ms dog showed these symptoms in 2020.
Mr and Mrs Ms vet said he wouldnt expect the symptoms shown in the dogs case in 2020 
to result in spondylosis. I accept that there might be a number of clinical reasons for stiffness 
and lameness in dogs and a vet might well not suspect spondylosis at the outset.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, I have to base my decision on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened in the light of the evidence. I note that in 2022 the dog 
was diagnosed with severe spondylosis. That suggests to me that the condition had been 
developing for some time. I also note that in 2020 Mr and Mrs M chose not to have any 
further investigations carried out into the cause of the lameness or stiffness. The dog has not 
been diagnosed with any other illness or condition causing lameness or stiffness. So, it 
seems to me more likely than not that the dog was showing early symptoms of spondylosis 
when it was seen by the vet in June 2020. On balance I find that C&G has fairly declined this 
claim in line with the policy terms.
With regard to exclusions the policy said that if C&G became aware of any pre-existing 
conditions at the time of a claim, these pre-existing conditions would not be covered and it 
reserved the right to add a relevant endorsement to the policy. I need to decide whether 
C&G acted fairly in applying a retrospective exclusion to the policy for degenerative 
diseases.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the obligations of a consumer when entering 
into an insurance contract and the remedies available to an insurer if a consumer fails to fulfil 
their obligations.
Under CIDRA Mr and Mrs M had to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when they first took out the policy and on each renewal. If they did make a 
misrepresentation, it is for C&G to show that this was a qualifying misrepresentation. To do 
this, it needs to show that if it had been given correct information, it wouldnt have offered the 
cover or it would have offered it on different terms.When Mr and Mrs M applied online in 2019, they were asked whether they wanted to cover 
any pre-existing medical condition. They answered No. There was explanatory information 
saying that meant any medical conditions, illnesses or accidents that happened before the 
policy started would not be covered. They also answered No to the same question in 
October 2021.
One of the considerations under CIDRA is how clear the question was. I think the question 
was clearly put. At the time of the 2020 renewal Mr and Mrs M were aware that their vet had 
noted lameness in their dogs hind limbs a few months previously and also stiffness. C&G 
has shown that if they had disclosed the lameness, it wouldnt have offered insurance on the 
same terms. The underwriting guidelines show that signs of lameness would have led to an 
exclusion relating to lameness and associated conditions in the specified limbs.
C&G has since accepted that it should have applied this exclusion instead of one relating to 
degenerative diseases. I think thats right. Im satisfied that a fair resolution of this part of the 
complaint would be for C&G to apply the exclusion for lameness rather than degenerative 
diseases.
Putting things right
To put things right I think Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd should 
remove the exclusion for degenerative diseases from the policy and instead apply an 
exclusion for lameness from 12 October 2020.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Casualty & 
General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman