DRN-3104429
The complaint
Mr J complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim asked him to pay 
their success fees for payment protection insurance (PPI) claims he said he hadnt 
authorised them to make.
What happened
Mr J said hed only agreed for FTR to carry out a free PPI check. He said he hadnt  
authorised them to pursue any claim for PPI. He said when theyd asked him to complete 
further documentation, he hadnt completed or returned the forms. In December 2020, he 
was told by one of his lenders Ill call B that hed a successful PPI claim, and in January 
2021, FTR started asking him to pay their success fee. He complained to FTR.
FTR said a letter of authority (LoA) had been signed in August 2019 and theyd acted in 
good faith in submitting this to Mr Js lenders and pursuing Mr Js PPI claims based on the 
information provided to them in the initial application. FTR said theyd updated Mr J when 
PPI had been found, and theyd provided him with their claims service. FTR said the PPI 
questionnaire theyd asked him to complete was to strengthen his claim that the PPI had 
been mis-sold. FTR said B told them when Mr Js claim was successful, and as he hadnt 
cancelled his agreement with them, they said their fee was justified.
Mr J wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred his complain to us.
Our investigator said Mr J  had authorised FTR to act on his behalf. And as his claim was 
successful FTRs fee was justified.
Mr J didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr J doesnt dispute that he signed the LoA in August 2019 but doesnt agree that hed 
authorised FTR to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim on his behalf. FTR feel strongly that theyd 
been authorised as Mr J had agreed to their terms and conditions. And that it was the 
submission of the LoA that meant Mr Js PPI claim was successful.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. In reaching my decision I need to decide whether, on balance, Mr J had 
authorised FTR, and if he had whether hed asked them to stop working for him. Ill also look 
at whether FTR had acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Mr J.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management 
companies (CMC) amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high 
volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject 
request. Any further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be used to 
strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the submission of a 
LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to 
investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim being auto 
converted. And a claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been 
accepted by any lender unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for Mr J on 29 August 
2019, the last day for making such claims. Ive looked at FTRs web journey process for an 
online application. A screen shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
*Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24%
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims as per the Terms of Engagement.
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement. And I think this 
shows that on PPI being found FTR would carry on with their claims service and a fee would 
be payable on success of any claim for mis-sold PPI.
The next screens would have asked for information from the applicant about personal details 
and lenders. FTR has shown the personal details supplied included , current and previous 
addresses, date of birth and contact details that correlate with the personal details Mr J has 
given this service. A list of lenders was also supplied.
On completing the application, FTR has said Mr J would have needed to agree to their terms 
and conditions. And this would generate a LoA populated with the supplied information. FTR 
has told us the LoA could only be submitted when a signature was added. Mr J isnt 
disputing, he completed the online application and submitted it to FTR. I know hes said he 
didnt read the terms and conditions but in submitting his application he said hed agreed to 
them. They said:
 Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
In January 2020, FTRs records show that they sent several notifications to the email 
address supplied in the online application, that gave a FTR customer reference number and 
said You Have Paid PPI with a link to a PPI questionnaire.  The email also said:
Please note: you may be unable claim a PPI refund unless you have completed the PPI 
questionnaire.
The email didnt say that by not completing the PPI questionnaire the agreement with FTR 
would end or that Mr J wouldnt be able to claim for mis-sold PPI. 
As PPI had been found, from this point FTR I think were providing their claims service. PPI 
being found didnt automatically mean Mr Js claim was successful as it needed to be considered by B whether the PPI had been mis-sold to him. This is why the emails sent by 
FTR included a link to the PPI questionnaire. But as I outlined about the information asked 
for in this questionnaire could be used to strengthen a claim for mis-sold PPI but this didnt 
mean a claim couldnt be considered without one.
I will now look to see whether Mr J asked FTR to stop working for him.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter
of Authority (Cooling -off period) at no cost to You.
The terms and conditions also explain how the agreement can be cancelled after the 14-day
cooling off period. And goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done,
telephone, email or in writing.
I think until PPI is found Mr Js  agreement would have only been for a free PPI check. So, I 
consider the 14-day cooling off period starts form the date Mr J would have been notified 
that PPI had been found and when FTRs claims service started. FTR first told Mr J  You 
have paid PPI .  In an email dated 6 January 2020, so Mr J would have had up to 20 
January 2020 to cancel the agreement without cost. 
I havent seen any evidence that Mr J asked FTR to cancel the agreement either
within or after the 14-day cooling off period. In December 2020, B told both Mr J and FTR that 
his mis-sold PPI claim was successful. The notification clearly shows the FTR customer 
reference. And B refers to Mr J in their notification to FTR as our mutual client. I think this 
shows B saw FTR as being Mr Js representative and that they werent dealing solely with Mr J. 
And I havent seen any evidence that Mr J asked FTR to stop or question them as to why 
they were contacting him or why B clearly referred to FTR in their final response. And by 
not telling FTR he didnt want them to act on his behalf before the end of the 14-day cooling 
off period, theyd continued to provide their claims service. 
I know Mr J said hed not completed any of the documents sent by FTR to him, but I dont 
think its enough to simply disengage from the process to consider this as cancelling the 
agreement. 
The agreement Mr J would have had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis. This means 
FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work they did. 
This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a 
claim was successful, FTRS fee maybe more or less than the value of the work they actually 
did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. As I think Mr Js claim was 
submitted by FTR just prior to the August deadline, and the claim was successful. I think 
FTR is justified in charging their fee.
I know Mr J will be disappointed with my decision but taking all of the above into account Im 
not upholding his complaint. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman