DRN-2385308
The complaint
Mr H complains about the process that Motorplus Limited required for him to submit a claim 
on his motor insurance policy. He wants compensation for his loss of earnings.
What happened
Mr Hs van and tools were stolen, and he submitted a claim to Motorplus for his tools in 
transit cover. He said he spent six hours collecting and submitting the required documents 
to prove his loss. But Motorplus said it required the documents to be scanned and wouldnt 
accept images. So Mr H had to spend further time doing this. 
Mr H said this wasnt made clear to him at the time. He wanted compensation for the time he 
spent repeating this when he could have been working. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Motorplus agreed 
that its claims process wasnt clear, and it said it would amend this. She didnt think 
Motorplus had caused Mr H enough inconvenience to warrant compensation. 
Mr H replied that he thought hed suffered a loss due to Motorplus inadequate instructions. 
He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration that he thought hed followed the claims instructions and 
sent off images of the required documents only to be told that they were in an incorrect 
format. Mr H said other insurers accepted images as proof of a loss. But I think this is 
Motorplus decision about its processes, and as its a commercial decision, its not something 
that I can interfere with. 
Motorplus said that it would amend the wording on its claim form to make it clear that 
documents need to be clear scans or originals and not photos. But it said it wouldnt 
compensate Mr H because it needed the documents to progress his claim.
Mr H first told us that hed spent six hours collecting and photographing the required 
documents from various files assembled over three years. He later estimated that hed spent 
a day to a day and a half doing this. 
I can understand that Mr H felt frustrated that he had to then provide scanned documents 
rather than images. And I can see that Motorplus has said it would make its requirement 
clearer. 
But I dont think the level of inconvenience Mr H suffered warrants any compensation. I think 
all claims involve some level of inconvenience and stress. And I cant see evidence that this 
had any further impact on Mr H for me to take into consideration. So I dont require 
Motorplus to compensate Mr H for the time he spent making his claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman