DRN-3324350
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly declined his credit card application and 
wouldnt tell him why.
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card with Santander in September 2021. Santander reviewed 
Mr Ms application and then declined it. Mr M appealed this however Santanders decision 
remained unchanged. Mr M said he completed another application shortly afterwards which 
was also declined.
Mr M said he then applied for credit cards elsewhere with other lenders and these 
applications were approved. So, he wanted to know why his applications with Santander 
were declined. Mr M also said he had a high credit score and pointed out that hed had 
previous credit with Santander, which he had managed well.
Unhappy with matters, Mr M complained. Santander looked into Mr Ms complaint and said 
as a responsible lender, it ensures that a customer has the most appropriate credit facilities 
available to them. It also said it made its decisions based on information from the credit 
reference agencies. It further explained that the amount of credit someone has available to 
them can influence its decision about whether to lend.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
reviewed matters and didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint was upheld. In summary, he 
didnt think Santander had treated Mr M unfairly by declining his credit card application, 
based on the information available to it and its lending criteria.
Santander didnt dispute our investigators findings, but Mr M did and mostly repeated his 
earlier points. Mr M also said he thought Santander had discriminated against him. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, the case has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I understand this will come as 
a disappointment to him, so Ill explain my reasons why. 
Businesses have their own set of lending criteria to follow before making a lending decision, 
and it isnt the role of this service to review a businesss lending criteria. Thats a commercial 
decision for Santander to make, in line with the regulator  The Financial Conduct Authority. 
But I can review whether a business has followed the correct processes before reaching a 
decision about whether or not to lend to a prospective customer.
Santander explained it had undertaken internal checks before reaching a decision. It also 
reviewed information retrieved from the credit reference agencies before making a decision 
about Mr Ms application. Ultimately Santander decided, based on what it had considered, to 
decline Mr Ms application. I think this was reasonable. 
Mr M says hes been treated unfairly because Santander hasnt lent to him, whereas other 
lenders have. However, its important to explain that each lender is entitled to decide 
whether or not theyre willing to lend to prospective customers. I recognise Mr M wanted the 
credit card and feels hes lost out from not getting it. But having a credit card application 
declined isnt  in and of itself  an unfairness. 
I also understand Mr M would like to know the specifics of why his application was declined. 
In its response to his complaint, Santander explained that the amount of credit a person has 
available to them can also influence its decision to lend. So, I think it has broadly explained 
the reason behind its decision and I dont consider that it is required to do more than this.
 
Mr M said that he thinks Santander had discriminated against him, because other lenders 
lent to him, but Santander didnt. Hes said he has an excellent credit score, repayment 
history and has had no problems taking out credit elsewhere. So Santander must be 
discriminating against him. Ive thought about this point carefully. Having done so, and from 
the information Ive been provided with, Ive not seen anything to suggest Santanders 
decision was for reasons of a discriminatory nature. And, I think it has indicated that the 
reason behind its decision was related to the amount of existing credit that Mr M had. 
Therefore, I cant fairly agree with Mr M here.
In summary, I dont think Santander has treated Mr M unfairly by declining his credit card 
application. And, Im satisfied it followed correct processes before reaching a decision. It 
follows that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman