DRN-3893372
The complaint
Mr M2 has complained on behalf of the estate of the late Mr M1, about the way that National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) resolved the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2004, Mr M1 took out a loan with NatWest, which he had PPI on. Mr M1 unfortunately 
passed away, and NatWest wrote off the outstanding balance of the loan.
In 2022, as part of an exercise to pro-actively contact customers who mightve been mis-sold 
PPI, NatWest found that this loans policy had been mis-sold. They found they owed the 
estate of the late Mr M1 some redress for the mis-sale. They used this redress to help pay 
off the outstanding balance on the same loan.
Mr M2 felt this wasnt fair. Particularly, he was unhappy that NatWest hadnt explained this 
properly in their offer letter. NatWest offered £100 compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
Our adjudicator looked into things independently and found that NatWest had acted 
reasonably. They explained that NatWest had the right to set off, and the debt had not 
disappeared on being written off. Mr M2 asked for an ombudsman to look at things afresh, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know that this will disappoint Mr M2, and while it is not my intention to disappoint 
him, I have found that NatWest resolved things fairly here.
I should first explain that when a debt gets written off, it doesnt cease to exist. It just means 
that the bank agreed not to take certain action to pursue the debt anymore, like sending 
chasers for repayments or going to court. So here, Mr M1s loan balance remained 
outstanding and in arrears  NatWest just agreed not to take certain action to chase it.
I should also explain that banks have whats called the right to set off  to use money they 
owe their customer to reduce the money that the customer owes them. They are also 
allowed to do this under the regulations for PPI compensation.
Mr M2 pointed out that NatWests offer letter only mentioned set off in cases involving 
insolvency  and Mr M1 wasnt insolvent. I understand why Mr M2 thought this might be 
important, and I agree that NatWest didnt explain things as well as they should have. But 
NatWests right to set off did not disappear just because they forgot to mention arrears in 
their letter. They were still within their rights to set off this redress against the arrears  they 
just should have communicated it better.
I also need to consider whats fair. When two parties owe each other money, it seems only 
fair that they each pay what they owe. Here, while NatWest owed Mr M1s estate around 
£1,000 for mis-selling PPI on the loan, Mr M1s estate still owed NatWest around £12,000 for 
the outstanding balance on that very same loan. I find its both fair and practical to use one 
debt to reduce the other.
We can think of it another way. Lets imagine a situation where Mr M2 owed someone 
money, and they also owed him a much larger amount of money. I dont think Mr M2 would 
feel it was fair if the other person never repaid their larger debt to Mr M2, but Mr M2 was still 
made to repay his debt to them.
Another key point is that when a PPI policy has been mis-sold, we tell businesses to put their 
customers in the financial position theyd be in now had the policy never been sold  as far 
as its possible to do that. Here, had Mr M1s loan PPI not been added to the balance, then 
his estate would not have an extra £1,000 or so now. Instead, the PPI premiums would 
never have been added onto the loan balance, so the loan wouldve been about £1,000 
smaller before being written off. So it makes the most sense to use the PPI redress to 
reduce Mr M1s unpaid debt in line with what it wouldve most likely looked like without PPI. 
Doing so more effectively puts the estate in the financial position it wouldve been in had the 
PPI not been sold.
So I find it was fair that NatWest used the PPI redress to reduce the balance on the same 
loan.
I also understand that Mr M2 was unhappy with the way NatWest handled the complaint. Im 
sorry to hear he found it stressful. But Im afraid this isnt something I can help with. Were 
only allowed to consider complaints about regulated activities  such as selling insurance. 
But handling complaints is not a regulated activity in and of itself. Further, we can only award 
compensation for losses that the eligible complainant suffered, but not their representatives. 
So in this case, I could only award compensation for losses which Mr M1s estate suffered 
(such as for mis-sold PPI), but not for any upset which Mr M2 faced as the representative of 
the estate.
With that said, I understand that NatWest have offered £100 compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill. That seems fair for their miscommunication in their offer letter and for any trouble 
the estate faced in dealing with the complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I find that National Westminster Bank Plc settled this PPI 
claim in a fair way. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman