DRN-3150485
The complaint
Mr A says Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to a loan 
taken to pay for a training course.
 
What happened
In early 2017 Mr A contacted a Course Provider to enquire about taking a training course. A 
representative visited him, and a modular training course was agreed to be undertaken. A 
loan agreement was created by Carnegie to pay for this course and Mr A paid £165 a month 
to Carnegie whilst doing the course for some years.
Then in July 2020 Mr A complained to Carnegie about many aspects of the sale and the 
course. This complaint included not knowing hed entered into a loan agreement, that his 
signature has been falsified, that he wasnt told there was a time limit on completing the 
course and a variety of other issues. Mr A wanted (and wants) the agreement unwound and 
all payments he made refunded to him.
Carnegie responded explaining that it supplied the loan and that a separate party (the 
Course Provider) provided the training course. Carnegie made clear it had responsibilities for 
any breach of contract or misrepresentation in the sale or supply of the training course. It 
considered the elements of Mr As complaint and felt that it hadnt done anything wrong and 
nothing needed to be remedied. So Mr A brought his complaint here.
Our Investigator decided that there had been a failing in the sale of the training course with 
regard to the time limit in the contract to complete the course. So decided that Carnegie 
should extend the period of time Mr A had to complete the course. Mr A disagreed with this 
saying his circumstances had changed, and he no longer wanted the course. Mr A still wants 
the agreement to be unwound and all payments returned.
Carnegie didnt agree with the Investigators position either and remained of the opinion that 
nothing had gone wrong. But as a gesture of goodwill and in an attempt to bring the matter 
to an end it offered an eighteen-month extension to the course in order for Mr A to complete 
it and gain the qualifications available. This offer has been put to Mr A and hes explained he 
doesnt accept it.
As both parties didnt agree with the Investigators position and Mr A was unwilling to accept 
Carnegies offer this complaint came to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2021 which set out my preliminary position that I 
didnt think any element of Mr As complaint should be successful. Carnegie responded that 
it didnt have anything to add. Mr A said in summary that there must be issues here because 
lots of people complain about the matter online, that he reiterates he didnt know it was a 
loan, that the evidence Carnegie is tainted (which I take to mean is false) and that they 
could create the documents after his meeting with the representative. Mr A also says that he 
has been hospitalised due to this and the stress caused by this matter has had a huge 
impact on my mental health which has raised safety concerns with health professionals.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to hear Mr A has not been well and has been in hospital. I hope he receives 
all the support he requires and has a speedy recovery.
The following paragraphs which are italicised, indented and in smaller font are the key areas 
of my provisional decision. After Ive quoted these Ill address Mr As concerns.
Carnegie and Mr A dont agree to some of the key issues here. I can only make my decision 
based on the evidence available and the arguments made. In short I must decide what is 
most likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
Mr A purchased his course with the Course Provider through a loan with Carnegie which was 
specifically arranged for that purpose. This means Carnegie has certain responsibilities to Mr 
A which arise from the relevant law, specifically, sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA). There is no need for me to go into great detail about how these sections 
operate, but in summary section 56 has the effect of making Course Provider the agent of 
Carnegie during the antecedent negotiations which led up to Mr A entering into the loan 
agreement and beginning with the first communication he received from the Course Provider. 
In practical terms this means Carnegie can be held responsible for representations made by 
the Course Provider during the sales process. 
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr A to hold Carnegie liable for breaches of contract by 
the Course Provider, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to the course. Again without 
going into a large amount of detail, a misrepresentation is a material, false statement of fact 
which a person relies on to their disadvantage, for example, by going into the contract that it 
otherwise wouldnt have done. A breach of contract occurs when one party to a contract fails 
to provide what it has agreed to under that contract.
Mr As contract with the Course Provider would be defined under the Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) as a contract to supply a service. The CRA causes a number of terms to be 
treated as included in such a contract. These are that the service in question will be 
performed with reasonable skill and care, within a reasonable time, and for a reasonable cost 
(if a price hasnt been pre-agreed). So I now turn to key aspects of this complaint.
Signatures
Mr A says the signatures on the documents arent his. Ive considered this carefully. Mr A has 
pointed to his signature on his passport and a document which relates to his agreement which 
is unsigned to support his stance that he didnt sign any documentation here. But I have to 
bear in mind a number of issues here. Firstly Mr A didnt complain to Carnegie for over three 
years after agreeing to take the Course which was arranged at the same time as the loan. 
This is a significant period of time and it would be understandable for memories of the sale to 
have faded in that time. 
Carnegie have provided a number of documents including a registration form, the Loan 
Agreement, an Affordability Assessment and the Student Status Credit Application which it 
says were all completed at the time and in Mr As presence. I can see that all of these 
documents have customer signatures on them. They are all dated when Carnegie says the 
representative visited Mr A. And across all of them they contain a significant amount of 
personal information about Mr A including addresses, monthly expenses, account details, 
driving licence details, bank statements and bank account details. This is not information 
publicly available, so I think it likely that Mr A provided these details during the meeting. And 
the number of documents present and the amount of handwritten entries made on these 
suggests to me that the completion of them (with Mr A providing extensive details in their 
completion) suggests to me that the completion of these documents would have taken a significant amount of time. And I think Mr A provided the information written on these forms. 
Mr A suggests the representative could have completed this all on his own. I disagree-these 
documents contain information that I think more likely Mr A provided. 
Mr A argues that an unsigned document demonstrates he didnt sign the documentation. I 
disagree. Often copies are made and just because one copy is unsigned doesnt demonstrate 
that another identical copy was not signed by Mr A.
Mr A also points to variances in the signatures between what he accepts is his signature and 
the signatures on the documentation here. And he is correct that they are not absolutely 
identical. However signatures vary for a variety of reasons, so I dont think this is persuasive 
here.
I can also see a letter which the Course Provider says it sent to Mr A shortly afterwards which 
says it contained copy documentation including the credit agreement. It is worth remembering 
that Mr A made the payments and continued with the course for three years after this point. 
And Im satisfied the signatures on all the documentation from the sale are sufficiently 
consistent for me to not think they were signed by different people.
Taking all of this into consideration Im satisfied on balance of probabilities that Mr A did sign 
all this documentation as Carnegie suggests he did in order to get the course he clearly 
wanted to do (and did for some time).
Not knowing it was a Loan
I can see from the documentation signed one of the documents is titled Fixed Sum Loan 
Agreement which is clearly branded with Carnegies company details. It has the amount of 
credit, advance payment made on the day and the monthly repayments (which Mr A accepts 
he made). And it has a signature consistent with the other signatures on the documentation 
which Ive found on balance Mr A made. I can also see references to the loan and a credit 
agreement on the other paperwork. And bearing in mind the amount of this paperwork and 
the details therein I think it likely Mr A was present during its completion. And I can see a copy 
of the letter sent after the sale to Mr As listed address which explains it includes the credit 
agreement which showed it was a loan. And Carnegie says statements were sent to Mr A 
also in the following years and has pointed to its records of this.
Mr A says he was told it was a direct debit arrangement which could be cancelled whenever 
he wanted. But he was also aware that it was a modular course which worked towards 
qualifications and that it had limited places, which doesnt seem consistent with being able to 
cancel at any time. Evidently Mr A paid throughout the three-year period. And the 
documentation shows it was a loan. And as Carnegie point out he was sent statements during 
this time. And also as Carnegie point out Mr A made contact and in July 2018 a statement of 
the loan was provided to him. But he didnt complain to it until 2020. If Mr A had not known 
hed taken a loan Id have expected him to raise the issue when he was sent a copy of the 
credit agreement a few days after agreeing it in 2017 (and within the cancellation period). Or 
when he received statements about the loan in 2018 and later. But there was no complaint 
made until 2020. Which doesnt seem consistent with what Mr A says he thought was the 
situation.
Taking all Ive said above into account and Mr As extensive arguments on the matter Im 
satisfied on balance that it was made sufficiently clear to Mr A that this was a loan and not a 
pay as you go type arrangement. So I dont think Carnegie has to do anything here.
The three-year issue
Mr A says that he wasnt told he had to complete the course within three years of taking it 
when he bought it. He says if hed been told he would not have taken the course or the loan.
The investigator in this case has said she felt that Mr A was misrepresented to on this point. 
But Im not persuaded this is the case here. I say this for a number of reasons. Firstly this 
course is designed to give specific qualifications for a specific industry in order for those who 
complete the course to then go into that industry and work in that industry. It was clearly a course with numerous stages and requiring a significant commitment in terms of time and 
effort. Carnegie say that depending on time available, effort level and other variables people 
doing this course complete it in between twelve months and thirty-six months. Twelve months 
being the minimum time required to do the course and thirty-six being the maximum. Clearly 
this was a course with significant expense, significant time commitment and with the clear aim 
of going into that profession that the course trained people taking the course to do.
Its clear that Mr A intended to take the course alongside his other commitments when he 
started the course. But three years is a long time and I think it unlikely Mr A would have been 
put off by the three-year limit when he took the course. I say this because hes not given any 
persuasive reasons why hed plan to take longer than three years to qualify in this profession 
bearing in mind hed need to qualify on the course before hed be able to start earning 
significantly from his new profession. It would seem likely that hed want to get the 
qualifications as soon as practicable (whilst alongside his other commitments) in order to start 
earning from his new profession. So whether or not he was told there was a limit to the course 
or not I dont think would have made a difference to his decision making. I think it likely hed 
still have taken the course if hed been told about the three-year limit. Im not persuaded there 
was a misrepresentation here. I see no reason for Mr A to have known in 2017 that hed have 
to take longer than three years to complete the course. And importantly for a finding of 
misrepresentation to be made Id have to be persuaded that the representative lied to Mr A 
and that he relied on that to his detriment. Even if the time limit wasnt discussed that wouldnt 
be enough to say Carnegie had a responsibility here.
And this is now no longer key issue anyway as Carnegie has offered an 18-month extension 
as a gesture of goodwill. Having listened to the call with our Investigator at the start of this 
Services involvement discovering the three-year time limit at the three-year point in the 
agreement was clear issue for Mr A. and now Mr A can complete the course in the extra time 
hes been offered. But Mr A has refused this because he says he no longer wants to do so. 
As it seems he doesnt want to proceed with this career. But that doesnt mean Carnegie did 
anything wrong. 
Qualifications 
Mr A has said the Course Provider isnt entitled to award the qualifications advertised. Our 
Investigator looked into this and confirmed that the Course Provider outsources the 
qualifications to be assessed by third parties who are entitled to award such qualifications. So 
was satisfied that there had been no misrepresentation to Mr A on this issue at the point of 
sale. But bearing in mind Mr As confirmed position that he doesnt wish to continue to the 
qualification stages of the course I dont think any potential issues on this point would make a 
difference to the outcome of Mr As complaint. And bearing Mr As position in mind, his 
comments regarding the training he has undertaken being in breach arent persuasive to my 
mind. I say this because if he continues with the course and completes it and then doesnt get 
the qualifications described then there will be breach. But as hes decided to stop before the 
end of the course and the third parties havent reached the stage of being asked to award the 
qualifications yet then no breach is made out. And nor is there any persuasive reason to 
expect the qualifications not to be awarded based on what Carnegie and the Course Provider 
have said to this Services investigations.
The Course Provider
Mr A has said that the Course Provider is no longer trading so he could not get the course if 
he wanted to. However Carnegie have confirmed the course is being provided and has 
offered an extension to Mr A in order to complete the course. So Im not persuaded by what 
Mr A says here. He should also be aware that even if the Course Provider did fail, Carnegie 
would be entitled to provide the same or similar courses from other providers to remedy any 
breach. But as Carnegie tell us that the course is still available to Mr A and hes choosing not 
to continue with it Im not persuaded this is a sufficient reason to uphold this element of 
complaint.
Limited Places/Act Fast
Mr A says he was misrepresented to at the point of sale. He says that he was told that there 
were limited places and that he had to act fast to secure a place. But it is important to remember that it was Mr A who approached the Course Provider initially. And Mr A hasnt 
persuaded me that there were unlimited places for the course or that there wasnt some 
degree of time pressure to get on the course. So although Mr A may in retrospect feel such 
comments in a sales meeting are disingenuous, Im not persuaded that they were untrue or 
that they decisively led him into purchasing the course and loan that he would not have 
purchased otherwise.
Training Centre
Mr A points to having to go to a training centre far further away than his preferred training 
centre. Carnegie has considered this and pointed out that Mr A hasnt attended any practical 
sessions at either training centre. It also points out that if he wishes to attend his preferred 
training centre for the practical elements of the course he can. And so Im not persuaded this 
is as key an issue as Mr A suggests. And considering he doesnt wish to continue the course 
anyway then Im not persuaded that this makes a difference.
A full refund
Mr A says he wants all his payments refunded to him. But Mr A has clearly had the benefit of 
three years of training in this specific profession. Mr A still has the option of getting fully 
qualified due to Carnegies offer to extend the time to complete the course. So even if I was 
persuaded that there were significant failings here (which Im not) a full refund would clearly 
be unfair and unreasonable. And at this stage Im not persuaded that there should be any 
refund or unwinding of the agreement Mr A entered at all.
I shall now address Mr As comments that he made in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr A points to online comment about similar issues. However I can only consider the 
evidence relating to Mr As complaint about Carnegie. And although Mr A passes comment 
on the relationships of the parties it is clear these are legally distinct parties fulfilling separate 
roles in this case. And that Carnegies liability is limited to what it is liable for under the Act 
as Ive described. And for the reasons Ive given above Im not persuaded that his complaint 
should be successful. It maybe that the online comment shows other people have 
complained but it doesnt necessarily follow that Mr As complaint should be upheld. And as 
Ive described there are many reasons which I think show his complaint should not be 
successful.
Mr A reiterates that he didnt know it was a loan. But he hasnt explained why my analysis of 
this issue is wrong. I have reconsidered this, but I think Mr A was aware it was a loan for the 
reasons Ive given.
Mr A makes clear that he believes a lot of the documentation available has been falsified or 
created after he complained to defeat his complaint. Im not persuaded by this for the 
reasons already stated. But it is worth adding that Carnegie knows that when Mr A 
complained hed already received benefit of some years of this course. So it follows that 
even if the complaint was upheld against Carnegie, it would know that Mr A had received 
benefit of the training and paid for it, so its liability would be limited significantly and may only 
be the loss of future payments or similar. So why would it commit the crime of falsifying 
documents when there would be limited financial gain in doing so and the consequences of 
such criminal action could be disastrous for both Carnegie and the individuals concerned if 
this were to be evidenced? I think it more likely that the evidence Carnegie has put forward 
is reliable.
I appreciate that Mr A is very invested in this complaint. But the length of time Mr A took part 
in the course, the weight of evidence provided by Carnegie which comes from throughout 
what happened here, Mr As own actions during the time in question and all the other 
reasons Ive given already mean I cannot fairly find in his favour.Accordingly this complaint is unsuccessful, and Omni has nothing further to do here. I 
appreciate this isnt the decision Mr A wants to hear but I think it is fair. And as Ive said I 
hope Mr A has a speedy recovery.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Carnegie Consumer Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman