DRN-4222486
The complaint
Ms G complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) refuses to refund her losses after she fell 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Ms G says she is part of an online community of sorts, with likeminded individuals on a 
social networking platform which Ill call F. On 17 December 2021, Ms G saw an investment 
opportunity being mentioned in F  and this opportunity was being discussed on another 
networking application which Ill call T. Ms G downloaded T and saw many people from her 
online community had signed up to the investment opportunity which helped them become 
more secure financially. Ms G had been worried about her job during the pandemic and was 
looking for ways to become more financially secure.  
Ms G says the scammers appeared to be linked to a financial business (which Ill call P). P 
was an FCA regulated business and although she did not invest with this particular firm, she 
believed she was dealing with brokers and staff from P, a genuine firm. 
Ms G was contacted by the scammers and told shed have to send her funds to an account 
in her own name on an online trading platform (which Ill call C) and then on to the 
scammers crypto wallet, for the scammer to trade on her behalf.
On the 18 December 2021, Ms G opened a Monzo account. Ms G says she was told the 
minimum investment amount was £1,000 so on the 19 December 2021, Ms G transferred 
£1, £999 (the £1,000 minimum investment) and an additional £99 to her account with C. She 
says she was able to withdraw £99 and £1 from C and being able to withdraw her money 
made her believe it was genuine investment. It is my understanding the funds were then 
moved on from C, to the scammers. 
Ms G says that throughout this time, Ts group members would advise that they had 
thousands of pounds worth of profit in their accounts. There were over 300 members in the 
group and most of them seemed to have made a lot of profit and even had withdrawals back 
into their bank accounts, which made the scam appear more convincing to Ms G. 
Ms G says she could see significant profits building in her trading account and wanted to 
withdraw her money. The scammers told her that in order to withdraw her investment, she 
needed to pay the scammer £3,900  which was 30% of the profit. On 21 December 2021 
Ms G made the payment of £3,900. 
On 22 December 2021, Ms G sent a further £5,200 as she was told she had to pay tax. 
When a further fee was demanded before releasing her profits to her, Ms G contacted 
Monzo saying shed been scammed. 
Monzo refused to refund the money Ms G had lost, saying it had done nothing wrong. Monzo 
said when the initial payment was sent, she was shown a no match warning but she 
continued to make the payment. 
Unhappy with its response, she referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened and didnt think Monzo should have to return the money to Ms G. 
Ms G asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter re-iterating that she had been the 
victim of a scam, that she was vulnerable due to her concerns over her job, and Monzo was 
in a position to identify the scam and prevent her falling victim to the scam. She added she 
didnt recall being shown any warnings. She felt that, as Monzo had failed in its duty to 
protect her, it should now refund the money she had lost. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me. 
In my provisional decision of 12 June 2023, I set out why I was minded to not upholding the 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. Ms G through her representative replied accepting my 
findings. Monzo did not make any further comments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained the following: 
Firstly, I think it may be helpful to set out that banks have an obligation to process the 
payments its customer authorises it to make both under the regulations applicable and the 
terms and conditions of accounts. However, banks also have a duty to try to prevent their 
customers falling victim to a scam. Banks need to strike a balance between intervening in 
payments to prevent scams or financial harm, and the risk of unnecessarily inconveniencing 
or delaying legitimate transactions. 
What this means is that Monzo is obligated to process any payments Ms G authorises, but it 
is also expected to monitor transactions. If any transactions are flagged as suspicious, or 
sufficiently unusual  Monzo should take measures to prevent its customers, such as Ms G, 
falling victim to a scam. 
It may also be helpful to explain, that Monzo didnt scam Ms G and was not the perpetrator 
of her losses. And, as explained above, banks usually are under an obligation to process 
payments authorised by consumers. Where consumers authorise such payments, the 
starting point is that consumers must bear the losses (so in this case, as Ms G authorised 
the payments, the starting point is that she must bear the losses that arise from such 
payments). 
In order for me to uphold a complaint of this nature, and hold Monzo liable for the losses 
instead of Ms G, Id need to be satisfied that Monzo failed in its duty to protect Ms G in some 
way, and that if it had instead done what it should have done, this either would have stopped 
the losses from occurring in the first place or helped to mitigate the losses once notified of 
the potential scam (by retrieving the money for example). 
The first thing I must bear in mind is that this was a new Monzo account that Ms G had 
opened only the day before the first transaction was made. So Monzo did not have a history 
of spending to review to identify whether these were unusual/suspicious transactions for her. 
Monzo says Ms Gs first transaction did trigger a no match warning  but this is a general 
warning shown to consumers when the beneficiary name doesnt exactly match the account 
details entered. While Ms G doesnt recall this warning, I dont think, in any event this affects 
the outcome of this complaint. As Ive explained further below, there were no indications at this early stage that this might be a scam, so I dont think it ought to have triggered an 
intervention by Monzo. And this type of alert is unlikely to have caused Ms G any concerns, 
as the money was going to an account that she, herself, held with C.
Secondly, the first few transactions were for relatively small amounts. I appreciate these 
amounts might be a lot of money for many consumers, but when compared to the thousands 
of transactions a business like Monzo processes daily  none of them are sufficiently 
significant figures that I would expect to trigger alarm bells. It is common for many 
consumers to transfer thousands to their online platform like C quite frequently to trade 
online and many of these transactions are completely legitimate. So, when assessing if 
Monzo should have contacted Ms G  I have to bear in mind the information available to 
Monzo at the time of the event. In the absence of any other concerning factors, I dont think 
these payment amounts are enough to have prompted an intervention by Monzo.
So, like our investigator says, the transactions made between 19 December 2021 to 21 
December 2021, were not individually and collectively significant enough, in my view, to 
have alerted Monzo to something having gone awry. 
However, on the 22 December 2021, Ms G made the final payment of £5,200, only a day 
after making a payment of £3,900. By this time, Ms G had collectively made payments of 
£9,100 in a very short space of time, when prior to this, her payments had been less than 
£1,000. That said, Ms G had her Monzo account for a very short amount of time. So Monzo 
would still not have much to go on to determine her typical account activity and what should 
be regarded as unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious. Ive nonetheless thought about what 
I think most likely would have happened if Monzo had flagged this transaction as suspicious 
and contacted Ms G  to discuss what was going on.  
Having looked at all the evidence provided, I dont think an intervention from Monzo would 
have, in all likelihood, prevented the loss at that stage and Ill explain why. 
I can see from the messages between Ms G and the scammers that before sending the final 
payment of £5,200, Ms G had already become aware that something might be wrong. 
On 22 December 2022, amongst other messages Ms G says
I was miss lead from the beginning
Madam I will contact the police
But Ms G still goes on to make the final payment a short time later. I also have to take into 
consideration that the online community Ms G was a member of, had also substantiated 
Ms Gs belief that shed make huge sums in profit. 
Ms G therefore appears to have had some suspicions by this time that she was being 
scammed, even considering contacting the police. But she continued to send money in the 
belief she would make a profit like others in her online community had done. If Monzo had 
contacted Ms G  it could only have discussed its concerns with her and alerted her that this 
could be a scam. But it would still have been up to Ms G to decide whether to send the 
money. There is nothing Monzo could have told Ms G that she wasnt already aware of at 
this point  Monzo could simply have alerted her to the possibility that this could be a scam, 
but this was something Ms G was already aware of and she continued to send further funds 
despite this. 
Given Ms Gs affiliation to the group on F that first prompted her to look into this opportunity, 
the discussions in the group on T  indicating that members were making significant profit, and Ms Gs decision to push ahead with the final payment despite her concerns, leads me to 
conclude that its unlikely an intervention from Monzo would have prevented Ms G from 
sending this final payment.
So, like our investigator says, Im therefore not satisfied that Monzo could have prevented 
the scam at this stage, even if it had intervened (in line with its duty of care). 
As Ms G sent the money to an account in her name with C, before she sent it off to the 
scammers crypto wallets, Monzo couldnt have retrieved the money for her after it was 
alerted to the scam  so I dont think it could have mitigated her losses at this stage. 
Im very sorry Ms G has lost this amount of money and I have no doubt that this has caused 
her a significant amount of distress. But as Ive said above, Monzo was not the perpetrator of 
the scam, and I dont think it acted incorrectly in not intervening for the first few payments. 
And even if it had intervened before the final payment, in line with its duty of care, Im not 
satisfied that Ms G would have heeded its warnings. So, as it couldnt have, in all likelihood, 
prevented the loss, I dont think its fair for it to be held liable for Ms Gs losses.
In the absence of any new points for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my 
original findings as set out in my provisional decision. So, whilst I am, again, very sorry that 
Ms G fell victim to this scam, Im afraid Im still of the view that Monzo could not have 
prevented this scam and so shouldnt be held liable for the losses. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman