DRN-1205912
The complaint
Ms R (through her representative) complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to identify two 
faster payments she made in error. Shes lost the money as a result. 
What happened
Ms R made two faster payments to a third party account held with HSBC in February 2019. 
The total payments were £21,000. Ms R realised shed made the payments to the wrong 
account. She contacted her bank, which raised the matter with HSBC to try to recover the 
money.
But the money had already been withdrawn by the third party. Ms R considers HSBC 
shouldve realised that the account name on the payment remittance was different to the 
name on the account the money was paid to. She also considers the bank shouldve realised 
the amount transferred wasnt typical for the account it was paid to. Ms R says if HSBC had 
better systems in place she wouldnt have made the payments in error.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that by the time Ms Rs bank 
raised the money with HSBC the money had already been withdrawn from the third party 
account. She was also satisfied that HSBC had followed the correct process to try to recover 
the money once it was notified of the problem by Ms Rs bank. The investigator wasnt 
persuaded that HSBC had done anything wrong.
Ms R didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware of the time it has taken to provide Ms R with a decision on her complaint, and Im 
grateful to her for her patience.
I can see that Ms R and her representative have put time and effort into their complaint and 
have strong feelings about HSBCs role in this matter. Ive given careful consideration to all 
of the submissions made by Ms Rs representative since the investigator issued her 
conclusions. I dont doubt the considerable distress this matter has caused Ms R.
Given the nature of whats happened, I can understand why Ms R and her representative 
feel let down by the banking, regulatory and legal systems. But I should explain that our role 
as a service is to decide cases based on whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
of an individual complaint against a financial business.  
Ms R has provided details of the outcome of a recent court hearing, although I understand 
she wasnt permitted to attend that hearing. Ms R has told me shes asked for transcripts of 
the hearing and I realise she would like me to consider those transcripts before making a 
final decision. 
But Im also conscious of the length of time this matter has been ongoing.  From what Ive 
seen and been told, on balance Im not persuaded that the transcripts are likely to change 
my overall conclusions about the complaint. While there may be details within those 
transcripts that Ms R thinks its important for me to see  ultimately the transcripts will only 
support the outcome the court reached, which I am aware of. And, the matter the court has 
considered is very different to the individual complaint against HSBC that I can consider 
here. Im satisfied I have sufficient evidence to consider this matter here. So Im satisfied that 
a final decision can be made based on the evidence thats available. 
Ms R doesnt dispute that the account number she used for the online payment was wrong. 
But she says the account name on the remittance was clearly different to the name on the 
account that the money was paid to. Ms R considers HSBC shouldve noticed this and made 
her aware of the discrepancy. Had it done so, Ms R says she wouldnt have made the 
payment and her money wouldnt have been lost.
Since the payments in question were made, the Payment Systems Regulator has required 
several UK banks (including HSBC) to change their processes so that account names are 
checked, as well as the account number and sort code. So I can see why Ms R might 
consider HSBC shouldve taken the same approach when her payments were made.
But at the time of Ms Rs payments, there was no regulatory requirement for HSBC to check 
the account name as she suggests. It was only required to check the account number and 
sort code. The account number and sort code Ms R used corresponded to an active HSBC 
account. Ultimately, the transaction here was authorised by Ms R and HSBC made the 
payment in line with the instruction they received. So based on the regulatory standards that 
applied at the time, Im not persuaded that HSBC was at fault for allocating the money to that 
account in line with Ms Rs instructions.
Ms R also considers HSBC shouldve realised the amount of money paid to the account 
wasnt typical for the account in question. Again, she says if HSBC had properly monitored 
the account transactions it couldve made her aware of the mistake shed made. 
HSBC has fraud parameters that it uses to identify unusual transactions. Those parameters 
are confidential to the bank (for security reasons) but HSBC has told me that the 
transactions in question didnt breach its fraud parameters. 
I appreciate Ms R is frustrated that confidentiality and security mean that HSBC isnt able to 
disclose anything further on this point. But its beyond the remit of this service to require the 
bank to share information that could compromise its wider security procedures. With that in 
mind, I dont think its unreasonable for me to accept what HSBC has said about the 
transactions not being flagged by its systems at the time.  
So what HSBC should have done is to help Ms R recover the money to the best of its 
abilities. Im satisfied it did here. Ms R contacted her bank once she realised what had 
happened. HSBC has provided evidence to show that by the time it was contacted by Ms Rs 
bank the money had been withdrawn.
Its also provided evidence to show that it contacted the third party to get consent to return 
the money. But the third party disputed that he wasnt entitled to the money, and said he 
wasnt willing to return it. At that point, there was nothing more that HSBC could do because 
the matter had become a dispute between Ms R and the third party. So while HSBC wasnt 
able to help Ms R recover her money  I think it nonetheless did what it could and should 
have done to try and help her recover it.The matter has been pursued through the criminal courts, and a final verdict has now been 
delivered. As Ive already said, our role as a service is to decide cases based on whats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of an individual complaint against a financial 
business. Were not looking at the same issue as the court here. So while Ive had regard for 
whats happened in this sense, I cant fairly say that HSBC can be held liable or responsible 
for what happened here. And that means I wont be telling HSBC to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman