DRN-3845290
The complaint
Mr A complains about the advice given by Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) to transfer 
the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
Mr A is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr A.
What happened
Mr A says he was offered a no obligation pension review with an independent financial 
adviser by a marketing company. He agreed to this and was put in contact with Portal.
Portal completed a fact-find and a financial questionnaire to gather information about Mr As 
circumstances and objectives. These recorded that he was 44, single, in good health and 
employed full time. He lived in rented accommodation and his income was recorded as 
exceeding his outgoings by approximately £180 per month. It was noted that Mr A hoped to 
retire at age 60 and was interested in being able to leave his pension to his children in the 
event of his death. It was also stated that he wanted control of the pension and more 
flexibility. The fact-find recorded that maximising available tax-free cash (TFC) was not 
important to him.
Mr A was asked, in the financial questionnaire, to specify his general attitude to risk in regard 
to investments on a scale of 1  7, with 1 indicating wanting to take no risk at all. It was 
recorded that Mr A selected 1. But in the fact find it was stated he had a balanced attitude 
to risk and was happy to accept investment risk.
Portal also gathered information about Mr As DB scheme pension. It noted this had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £33,380. At the normal scheme retirement age of 65 it 
was estimated Mr A would be entitled to an annual pension of £5,270 or tax-free cash 
(TFC) of £24,141 and a reduced annual pension of £3,621.
On 17 November 2014, Portal advised Mr A to transfer his pension benefits into a SIPP. The 
suitability report briefly recapped Mr As circumstances and said he had a Moderately 
Adventurous attitude to risk. It said that Mr A had expressed that he felt the ability to draw a 
pension flexibly from age 55 would be useful, as would maximising the amount of available 
TFC.
Portal said that the critical yield  the growth rates required of a new pension to allow Mr A to 
purchase equivalent benefits to those he was due under his DB scheme  was 10.3% if he 
were to take a full pension at age 65 or 9.5% if he took TFC and a reduced pension at age 
65. But it said that Mr A indicated he wasnt likely to take an annuity and the funds would 
remain invested. And the growth rate required of a flexible drawdown facility to match his 
existing benefits was 6.41%.
Portal said it felt a future assumed gross rate of return of 6.445% per annum was reasonable 
 before accounting for charges  based on a model portfolio for an investor with Mr As 
attitude to risk. And it said the portfolio would be designed to reduce exposure to risk as Mr 
A came to his expected retirement age, which Portal said was 65.
So, Portal recommended that Mr A transfer his benefits saying We believe a transfer is 
likely to result in increased pension benefits on a like-for-like basis with your Scheme. It also 
said this would give Mr A ownership, control and flexibility, would enable Mr A to access TFC 
from age 55 and would provide alternative death benefits  so would meet his objectives. It 
also said, while it believed the DB scheme was currently financially secure, there was the 
possibility that future benefits could be reduced if governments fail to address structural 
funding problems that have been identified for these schemes.
The report said Portal would recommend that you invest in the following fund asset classes 
and gave a percentage breakdown of how the portfolio should be apportioned. But it said 
another business, which Ill call Firm C, that was separate and independent to both Portal 
and the new pension provider, would contact Mr A to discuss the actual fund investments. 
And it said until that time, the pension fund would remain entirely invested in cash.
I understand that the SIPP was subsequently set up as per the recommendation and Mr As 
benefits transferred from his DB scheme in July 2015. By which time the CETV had 
increased to £62,235. Firm C then provided recommendations regarding how the SIPP was 
invested, including that Mr A invest a significant sum in unregulated investments.
Firm C subsequently went into liquidation and Mr A appointed an alternative adviser. In 
2019, Mr A made a claim to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) in 
respect of the advice hed been given by Firm C. I understand that claim was successful, 
and Mr A received redress.
Mr A then complained in 2021 to Portal about the suitability of its advice. He said he thought 
the advice to transfer and give up guaranteed pension benefits hed have received through 
his DB scheme was unsuitable and not in his best interests.
Portal declined to look into Mr As complaint as it said it felt it had been made outside of the 
time limits set for raising a complaint. It said it sent him a suitability report in November 2014 
and his complaint had been raised more than six years after this. And Portal said Mr A 
shouldve had reasonable cause to question the advice hed been given when Firm C went 
into liquidation in 2017  more than three years before he complained.
Mr A referred his complaint to our service. Another Ombudsman considered whether we 
have jurisdiction to look into the complaint. And they decided the complaint had been made 
in time, so we can consider it.
An Investigator then looked into the merits of the complaint. She upheld the complaint and 
required Portal to pay compensation as well as £250 for the distress caused. In summary 
she felt Mr A was always likely to receive pension benefits of a lower overall value by 
transferring. And she didnt think there was another reason that outweighed this or made a 
transfer in Mr As best interests. So, she thought Mr A shouldve been advised to leave his 
benefits where they were.
Portal did not respond to the Investigators opinion. So, we have assumed Portal did not 
accept it. And the complaint has therefore been referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
As I mentioned, Portal previously said Mr As complaint was brought too late for our Service to consider it. I dont intend to revisit that, given an Ombudsman has already given a 
decision explaining why they were satisfied Mr A brought this complaint in time, other than to 
say having reviewed the available information I agree with the decision reached by the 
previous Ombudsman. So, as Im satisfied we can look into this complaint, Ive considered 
all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Portal's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Portal should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr As 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.
Financial viability
Portal said in the suitability report it believed that a transfer was likely to result in increased 
pension benefits. But, as Ill explain, I dont agree with this statement.
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The investment return (critical yield), quoted in the suitability report, required to match the 
DB scheme benefits at age 65 was 10.3% per year if Mr A drew a full pension or 9.5% per year if he took TFC and a reduced pension. This compares with the discount rate of 5.1% 
per year for 20 full years to retirement, as was the case here.
For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8% the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
In the suitability report Portal said Mr A had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk. But 
despite requests from our Investigator, Portal hasnt provided copies of any risk profiling 
questionnaire completed at the time. The fact-find and financial questionnaire from the point 
of sale though included some questions about risk. And I dont think these support the 
statement that Mr A had a moderately adventurous attitude to risk.
When asked on a scale of 1 to 7 to indicate what level of risk hed be willing to take, Mr A 
indicated 1  representing no risk at all. It was recorded, separately that Mr A had a 
balanced attitude to risk and was happy to accept investment risk. But there was nothing 
to say how much risk he was in fact happy to accept. And in the same document it was 
noted that Mr A was only willing to tolerate a minimal loss and that any loss of 10% of his 
pension fund would have a significant impact on his standard of living. Given there was 
nothing recorded about Mr A holding any other pension provisions, this DB scheme appears 
to have represented the majority of his private pension arrangements. So, these statements 
about tolerance for loss seem reasonable. Mr A was at least 10 years from being able to 
draw any pension benefits. And so, there was time to achieve some growth. So, I dont doubt 
that, after discussion with Portal, he indicated he was likely willing to take some risk. But on 
balance I think at most he was likely to have a cautious or balanced attitude to risk, rather 
than being moderately adventurous as Portal has suggested.
Ive taken the critical yields and discount rates into account, along with the composition of 
assets in the discount rate, what Ive said about Mr As attitude to risk and also the term to 
retirement. There would be little point in Mr A giving up the guarantees available to him 
through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, based on the information used at the point Portal advised Mr A to 
transfer, I think he was always likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value 
than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with his attitude to risk. And 
I think this would have in fact been the case even he did have moderately adventurous 
attitude to risk.
Im aware that the transfer value moved to the SIPP was greater than that which the 
suitability report was based on, meaning the critical yield was likely to have reduced. But I 
havent seen anything to suggest it fell to the point it could be reasonably expected to be 
achieved and exceeded  as would need to be the case for Mr A to improve his pension 
benefits. And in any event, the advice Portal gave was based on the lower CETV.
Portal said that the required growth rate of a drawdown pension to match the existing 
benefits was in fact 6.41%. And it estimated a return of 6.445% was achievable.
The regulator required the calculation of the critical yield when giving pension transfer advice 
as it illustrated the value of the DB scheme benefits. So, I think this is a more appropriate 
consideration. In any event though, the return rate Portal said was achievable is based on 
Mr A having a moderately adventurous attitude to risk. Which, as Ive explained, I havent 
seen evidence to support being the case.
Also, as Portal will know, past performance, which I understand this estimate of what Portal 
thought was achievable is based on, is no guarantee for future performance and so I 
consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in 
this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward.And in any event, the rate of 6.445% which Portal said was achievable was before 
accounting for any charges. The information Ive seen indicates the SIPP provider charged 
an annual management fee of 0.5% of the fund. And the business providing ongoing 
servicing, in this case Firm C, would also likely have applied a charge. So, when accounting 
for these charges, even if I felt looking at the required growth rate Portal has referenced was 
appropriate, or that Portals projection was likely achievable, it still wouldve fallen short of 
the growth required to match the existing benefits. Meaning Mr A was always likely to end up 
with lower overall retirement benefits as a result of transferring.
So, from a financial viability perspective a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr As 
best interests. And I think Portals statement that he was likely to receive increased pension 
benefits was incorrect and misleading.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility
It was noted that Mr A was potentially interested in retiring early  possibly around age 60. 
But Mr A has said he had no firm plans about this at the time. And, while obviously he was 
interested in retiring early if he could, this was not something that had been decided.
The suitability report said that Mr A had said he expected to retire at age 65. And the fact 
that no mention was made in the suitability report of the critical yields required for retirement 
at age 60, would also tend to support that this was more likely a nice to have. Given Mr A 
was 44 at the time of the advice, I dont think a decision around this had been made. So, I 
dont think he needed flexibility in his pension arrangements at the time, for this purpose.
I also cant see that anything was recorded during the fact finding about his income needs in 
retirement. And no mention of this was made in the suitability report. So, I dont think there is 
enough evidence to suggest that he needed flexibility in order to achieve a set income need 
either.
The suitability report said Mr A felt maximising the amount of TFC available to him would be 
useful. But the fact-find specifically recorded that he felt this was not important (and this isnt 
the only discrepancy between the fact find and the suitability report). I havent seen anything 
to suggest that Mr A needed or had any plans for TFC. And in any event, given his age, he 
wouldnt have been able to access this for over ten years anyway.
So, taking all of this into account, I dont think Mr A needed flexibility in terms of how his 
pension benefits could be accessed at the time of the advice. He doesnt appear to have had 
any concrete retirement plans. And, as it was over ten years before he could think about 
accessing his pension, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring 
out of the DB scheme. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr A to give up 
his guaranteed benefits at the time. And if Mr A later had reason to transfer out of his DB 
scheme he could have done so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
Portal recorded that Mr A wanted death benefits for his son. And Mr A has confirmed that 
being able to pass the pension to his son was something he was interested in.Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr A. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr A might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr A about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Portal explored to what extent Mr 
A was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death benefits.
Mr A was unmarried, so the spouses pension available through the DB scheme wasnt 
useful to him at that time. But he was still young. So, there was still the possibility he 
mightve later married, and the existing death benefits couldve then been useful.
More importantly though the lump sum death benefits the personal pension would provide 
was dependent on investment performance and wouldve also been reduced by any income 
Mr A drew in his lifetime. I havent seen anything suggesting Mr A wasnt in good health, so 
there wasnt anything to suggest he was unlikely to reach at least his average life 
expectancy. By which time the income hed have drawn wouldve meant the value of the 
pension was likely to have been significantly reduced. So, the pension was unlikely to 
provide the legacy Mr A mayve thought.
In any event, Portal should not have encouraged Mr A to prioritise the potential for higher 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
Furthermore, if Mr A genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his son, which didnt depend on 
investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Portal 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. Mr A had disposable income to potentially pay for 
this and his age and the fact he was in good health suggests insurance was likely to be 
affordable. But I cant see that Portal explored this.
Overall, while Mr A mightve been thinking about the pension potentially not benefitting his 
son in the event of his death when speaking to Portal, I dont think different death benefits 
available through a transfer to a SIPP justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for 
him.Concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
There was nothing to suggest that the funding of Mr As DB scheme was in a position such 
that Mr A should have genuinely been concerned about the security of his pension. And 
there is nothing to suggest he was concerned when contacting Portal. The suitability report 
also acknowledged as much. But it then went on to question the security of DB schemes in 
general and implied there was the possibility Mr As pension could fail and see reduced 
benefits if governments fail to address structural funding problems. I dont think this general 
observation was appropriate in the circumstances. And I dont think introducing this 
argument and doubt on Mr As part represented his opinion and Id argue it was misleading. 
And there werent in my view any grounds to say transferring out of his DB scheme was in 
Mr As interests based on this.
Suitability of investments
Portal said that Firm C would provide advice on how the SIPP was invested and the 
information Ive seen indicates it did so. The FCA has been clear that in order to give 
suitable advice on a transfer of pension benefits, the advice has to include the suitability of 
the underlying investments. So arguably, without Portal having knowledge of how the 
portfolio would be invested, it couldnt reasonably have concluded that the transfer was in Mr 
As interests. But ultimately, as Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer 
out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr A, it follows that I dont need to consider the 
suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Mr A should have been 
advised to remain in the DB scheme and so Firm C would not have had the opportunity to 
manage his funds if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr A. But Portal 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr A might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr A needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr A was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr A was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, for the reasons Ive already explained, in my view there were 
no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.
So, I think Portal shouldve advised Mr A to remain in his DB scheme.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr A would've gone ahead anyway, against Portal's 
advice. And Ive considered this carefully. But Im not persuaded that Mr A wouldve insisted 
on transferring out of the DB scheme, against Portals advice. Mr A appears to have been an 
inexperienced investor. I think he had a cautious, or at most balanced, attitude to risk. And 
he had a low capacity for loss - as this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement 
provision. Im not persuaded that Mr As thoughts in relation to the pension potentially not 
benefitting his son were of such concern that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing 
that a professional adviser, whose expertise hed asked for, didnt think it was suitable for 
him or in his best interests. I think Portals advice wouldve carried significant weight and if it 
had provided Mr A with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, I think he 
wouldve accepted this.
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr A for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.Should Portal be held entirely responsible for Mr As losses?
As Ive explained, I understand Firm C was responsible for providing advice in relation to 
how the SIPP was ultimately invested. So, I have considered whether I should apportion only 
part of the responsibility for compensating the loss to Portal. In the circumstances, though, I 
think it fair to make an award for the whole loss against Portal.
Portal should not have recommended Mr A transfer out of his DB scheme. And it was only 
as a result of Portals involvement that Mr A transferred the funds held in his DB scheme to 
the SIPP. Portals role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the 
funds being transferred first. If that hadnt happened, Mr A couldnt have invested as he did. 
So, in my view, the entirety of Mr As loss stems from Portals unsuitable advice to transfer 
away from his DB scheme.
Im aware that Mr A made a successful claim to the FSCS in respect of the advice Firm C 
gave him. So, Ive thought about whether any award made against Portal should be limited 
by taking the payment the FSCS has already made to Mr A, which I understand totalled 
£15,711.14, into account.
The FSCS describes itself as a fund of last resort. And I understand it is usually unlikely it 
will pay out on claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction, and 
where it considers there is a reasonable prospect of the consumer making a recovery 
against that firm for the loss suffered. But whether to postpone payment of compensation (to 
enable the consumer to recover compensation from a third party) is a matter entirely for the 
FSCS.
In this case, the FSCS decided to award Mr A compensation before the complaint against 
Portal was brought or made to our service. I am aware that as a condition of accepting 
compensation from the FSCS, Mr A was asked to give to the FSCS an assignment of his 
rights to make a claim against third parties. This would have enabled the FSCS to make a 
claim in recovery of that compensation against those third parties and the PI insurer of Firm 
C. And Portal would be considered a third party.
In order for Mr A to make a complaint to this service about Portal, he needed to ask the 
FSCS for a re-assignment of those rights. I can see that Mr A has obtained that 
reassignment which contains, as a condition, the following requirement:
The Claimant agrees that in respect of the Reassigned Rights the proceeds of the claim 
shall first be applied to repay an amount equal to the Compensation Sum to FSCS together 
with interest on the Compensation Sum from the date of receipt of the proceeds by the 
Claimant to the date of payment by the Claimant to FSCS at a daily rate equivalent to the 
Bank of England base rate from time to time (subject to a minimum rate of 0.1%), such 
payment to be made to FSCS within 14 days of receipt. The payment to FSCS shall be 
made after the deduction from the proceeds of the Claimant's reasonable legal costs 
incurred in pursuing a claim in respect of the Reassigned Rights.
So, although Mr A did receive compensation from the FSCS, as per the reassignment of 
rights agreement Mr A entered into with the FSCS, he has agreed to repay the 
compensation he received from the FSCS if he receives compensation from a third party (in 
this case Portal) relating to the same claim.So, in my view:
There is no real risk of Mr A benefiting from double recovery, as Mr A is contractually 
required to pay back to FSCS the full amount of the compensation it paid to him; and
I have seen nothing to suggest that Mr A is unlikely to comply with that requirement 
in accordance with the deed of reassignment;
If I did not direct Portal to pay compensation to Mr A for the full amount of his loss (in 
circumstances where I have determined it is responsible for 100% of that loss), he 
would nonetheless still be required to account to FSCS from the compensation he 
receives from Portal and would, in turn, be left out of pocket.
So, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is for Portal to pay Mr A compensation for the full 
amount of his loss.
Mr As representative has said he is unhappy with any compensation being paid into the 
SIPP as he has lost all faith in Portal. And he is concerned with its financial viability based on 
a recent letter he received. So, he would like redress paying to him as a lump sum. But 
Portal is not the SIPP provider, so its status does not impact the status of the SIPP. And the 
aim of the recommendation Im making is to put him back in the position he wouldve been in 
but for the advice  which wouldve been him having pension benefits rather than access to 
a lump sum now. There may be reasons that a lump sum payment is appropriate once 
redress is calculated  which are covered below. But I dont think it is fair to require all of the 
compensation to be paid as a lump sum.
Our Investigator recommended that Portal also pay Mr A £250 for the distress caused by the 
unsuitable advice. I dont doubt that Mr A has been caused distress and concern in relation 
to his retirement planning. And Im conscious this wouldnt have happened but for the 
unsuitable advice. And so, in the circumstances, I think the award the Investigator 
recommended is fair.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr A, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr A would 
have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress.
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance - https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come 
into effect on 1 April 2023.The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr A whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for the new guidance / rules to come into effect. He has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr A.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, I understand Mr A has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. 
So, compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr As acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr As 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr As SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr A within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr A.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Portal to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and / or guidance in any event.
In addition to the calculation described above, Portal should pay Mr A £250 for the distress 
caused by the disruption to his retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr A the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr A any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr A any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr A the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr A.
If Mr A accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr A can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr A may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman