DRN-3520249
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) failed to tell him, during the sale of a Metal 
account, enough information about the travel insurance to allow him to fully understand the 
cover it was providing. 
This came to light when Mr A had issues making a claim for lost luggage, which was initially 
declined due to the luggage being left unattended whilst under the care of the airline.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt think that Revolut had done 
anything wrong. He thought that the information provided during the sales process was 
sufficient. 
Mr A, in response, said that he believed that the information provided was not clear and was 
misleading as the policy summary just says that lost luggage is covered
I can see that a complaint against the provider of the insurance has already been made. This 
complaint is about the actions of Revolut. I should highlight at this point that what the insurer 
did, or did not do, is not going to be considered as part of this decision. I will only be looking 
at whether Revolut did anything wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having weighed everything up, Im not able 
to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I think it might help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is 
the case here, I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened, based on all 
of the evidence that is available.
Given that Revolut is not the insurer, this means that it is not responsible for how the travel 
claim was handled. I am only looking to see, in this case, if Revolut provided Mr A with 
enough information when the account was sold to him.
I have looked at the documentation that wouldve been provided during the sales process 
and I accept that the policy summary does not give the full details of what is and isnt 
covered in relation to lost luggage, though I see it does mention that luggage and valuables 
left unattended are not covered. But as this is a summary it only needs to highlight significant 
and unusual exclusions  if it included all of the terms, conditions and exclusions, I dont 
think it could reasonably be called a summary. 
The exact terms of what is meant by unattended would not normally be in this summary. 
That is why the top of the summary says that a policy holder would need to refer to full terms 
and conditions for the policy to get all of the details of the policy. From what I can see of 
Revoluts application process I am satisfied on balance that Mr A wouldve had access to the 
full terms and conditions prior to him taking out Metal account. So overall I think that he was 
given enough information by Revolut, so that he could make an informed decision about 
whether the Metal account and the associated benefits were right for his circumstances. So I 
dont think that Revolut did anything wrong in relation to this.
I note Mr A still has concerns with the way his claim was handled. But as explained above, 
this is a matter between him and the insurer, so I cant comment on that in this complaint.
Mr A has also said that he had issues with the service he received during the complaint 
process. From what I can see, whilst I accept that everything may not have gone completely 
smoothly during his complaint, I dont think an award of compensation is merited in this 
instance.
For the sake of completeness, I should add that this decision represents the last stage in our 
complaint process, but if Mr A remains unhappy, he may be able to refer his complaint 
elsewhere, such as court.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman