DRN-3106624
The complaint
Miss H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited didnt complete an annual service on 
her boiler, which she was entitled to under her HomeCare insurance policy. She says had 
the boiler been serviced, it wouldnt have been condemned the following year.
What happened
In February 2021, Miss H complained her annual service had been missed the previous 
year.
In March 2021, an engineer from another company noted the boiler was in an unserviceable 
state and required extensive works to get it to an acceptable condition. He commented the 
boiler appeared to have been neglected, and not properly maintained or serviced over the 
previous years. He noted the boiler wasnt working, and due to its age and condition, he 
advised Miss H to replace it.
Miss H wanted British Gas to pay for her new boiler and to refund the premiums she had 
paid during the last two years.
British Gas said the annual service was missed in 2020 due to the pandemic. It said it had, 
up until 2020, serviced the boiler for over ten years and carried out all the safety checks. It 
said, despite the natural wear and tear on a boiler of its age, on each visit the boiler was 
deemed safe. It also said it had previously advised Miss H that she should consider 
replacing the boiler, due to its age and the availability of parts. 
British Gas also highlighted that Miss H could have asked it to visit, to check the third-party 
engineers observations, and to see whether British Gas could have completed a repair 
rather than the boiler being condemned.
British Gas refunded £65 for the missed service, and £129.05 for the premiums she had so 
far paid for the current years policy.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt think it should be upheld. 
Because Miss H disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms explain that an annual service will be undertaken in each policy period, to 
ensure the boiler is working safely and in line with relevant laws and regulations. However, 
the terms also explain that the service may be more, or less, than 12 months after the last 
service; and in periods of high demand, priority is given to breakdowns which may mean 
annual services are re-arranged. Based on the information Ive seen, I understand the 
following:
- The last annual service was completed in March 2019. This was for the policy period 
of October 2018 to October 2019.
- In September 2019, the next annual service was booked for October 2019. This was 
for the policy period of October 2019 to October 2020. The appointment was later 
re-arranged to November 2019, due to no resource.
- The November 2019 appointment was later cancelled due to a customer request, 
with the customer to re-book. In December 2019, British Gas emailed Miss H, 
inviting her to book the appointment.
I can understand Miss Hs frustration that the October 2019 service was re-arranged, but the 
information Ive seen suggests that either she or her tenants cancelled the November 2019 
appointment. Ive not seen Miss H attempted to re-book the service, despite British Gas 
inviting her to do so.
British Gas says it was then unable to arrange another service due to pandemic restrictions. 
The policy terms explain that during pandemics, British Gas will adhere to the governments 
guidelines. Businesses were unable to enter homes between March and May 2020, unless 
there was an emergency. British Gas says that, from June 2020, once the restrictions had 
eased, it started re-booking annual services. As I understand it, in September 2020, an 
annual service was booked for November 2020. 
Ultimately, this meant Miss H didnt receive an annual boiler service for the policy period of 
October 2019 to October 2020. But in view of the above, I dont consider that British Gas 
breached the policy terms or acted unfairly.
British Gas then rescheduled the November 2020 service. First to early-January 2021, and 
then to late-March 2021. Based on the email from the third-party engineer, I understand he 
was asked by Miss H to service the boiler, in early-March 2021, as it had stopped working. 
I can understand Miss Hs upset if the boiler had stopped working, given the twice 
rescheduled service with British Gas.
However, even if I were to decide it was unreasonable for British Gas to delay the service for 
a further four months (between November 2020 and March 2021), I cant reasonably decide 
that such a delay was the main reason an 18-year old boiler was condemned.
Ive considered the third-party engineers comments about the issues he found. However, he 
hasnt said anything that leads me to believe the boiler hadnt been left working safely, or in 
line with relevant laws and regulations, following British Gas last annual service in 
March 2019.
British Gas says Miss H could have asked it to attempt repair. Its not clear whether Miss H 
had already cancelled her policy by the time the boiler stopped working. But importantly, if, 
like the third-party engineer, British Gas couldnt have repaired the boiler; the cost of 
replacing it wouldnt have been covered (due to its age).
In the circumstances, Im not persuaded that I can reasonably direct British Gas to reimburse 
Miss H the costs she incurred to replace her boiler. I understand that Miss H would also like 
further premiums refunded, in addition to the £65 and £129.05 already provided. However, 
Im not persuaded British Gas needs to refund anything further, given Miss H would have 
had the benefit of the cover if she had called upon it.
My final decisionIm sorry to disappoint Miss H. But for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman