DRN-2819089
The complaint
Miss K complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard and their decision to 
default her credit card account while she was abroad.
What happened
Miss K held a credit card account with Barclays. But Miss K failed to make her minimum 
monthly payment in August, September and October 2019. Barclays wrote to Miss K in both 
September and October to advise her of this and request that she contacts them to arrange 
payment to clear the arrears.
Miss K called Barclays on 29 October, where she explained shed been out of work for the 
previous three months to had been unable to make payments to the account. Barclays 
agreed to freeze any interest and charges on the account for thirty days but explained and 
wrote to her to confirm this. They also explained if they didnt hear from Miss K within these 
thirty days to arrange payment, fees would be charged again.
Miss K didnt make any further payments to the account so on 28 November, Barclays wrote 
to Miss K explaining her card had been cancelled and her account closed. They also 
explained Miss Ks account would be defaulted if no payment would be made and that this 
could impact her credit file.
Miss K called Barclays on 4 and 12 December to discuss this. She asked for a direct debit of 
£15 to be set up to clear the arrears. Barclays explained this payment wasnt enough and a 
repayment plan wasnt agreed. But Miss K explained she had no time to discuss this further.
Miss K then travelled to India in January 2020 and due to COVID-19 and the travel 
restrictions that were imposed, she was unable to travel back to the UK until September 
2020. When Miss K arrived back in the UK, she discovered that Barclays had defaulted her 
account in May 2020 and passed her outstanding debt to a third-party debt collection 
agency. Miss K was unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Miss K didnt think it was fair for Barclays to default her account when she was unable to 
return from India due to the pandemic. She thought this had prevented her from being able 
to maintain payments to her account during this time. So, she wanted Barclays to remove 
the default from her credit file as it was impacting her ability to secure future credit.
Barclays responded and didnt agree. They explained they had a responsibility to accurately 
report the way Miss K had managed her account. So, they didnt think they should remove 
the default as they thought theyd applied it fairly. Miss K disputes she received this 
response but as she remained unhappy, she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought Miss K 
shouldve been reasonably aware her account was in arrears before she travelled to India. 
So, even though they recognised the inconvenience she was caused by not being able to 
travel back, they didnt think this meant Barclays acted unfairly by defaulting the account 
during this time. And so, they didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more.
Miss K didnt agree. She disputed the timeline of events described by Barclays and our 
investigator. She explained shed not received any letters from Barclays other than her 
monthly statements and that if she had, shed have acted on them straight away. So, she 
didnt think she was given any notice about being in arrears, and the actions Barclays would 
take if she failed to make payment, until she was in India and unable to receive her post. 
Because of the above, Miss K maintained her view that the default should be removed from 
her credit file. As Miss K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss K. I recognise Miss K 
was outside of the country for nine months due to the travel restrictions imposed following 
the emergence of COVID-19. And I understand the difficulties this wouldve caused Miss K 
when maintaining her accounts and other responsibilities in the UK from abroad. I can also 
appreciate the upset Miss K wouldve felt when she returned home to find her account with 
Barclays had defaulted and the impact this had on her credit file. But for me to say Barclays 
should remove this default, Id need to be satisfied Barclays applied this default unfairly. Or, 
that they failed to make Miss K reasonably aware that her account was due to be defaulted. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Miss K hasnt disputed she failed to maintain payments to her account. Shes explained she 
was unable to do so as she was abroad at the time. But as Miss K wasnt making her 
minimum monthly payment, arrears were accruing on her account. And from what Ive seen, 
these arrears began to build in August 2019, some five months before Miss K travelled 
abroad in January 2020.
Im aware Miss K has disputed this and has said she made payments, albeit late. But Ive 
seen the statements and they dont show any payment made by Miss K. Without any 
evidence to show Miss K attempted to make payments to the account from August 2019, I 
think its reasonable for me to rely on the information these statements provided.
As Im satisfied Miss K failed to make payments to her account, Id expect Barclays to follow 
their usual collections activity. And as part of this, Id expect Barclays to follow the default 
process as set out in guidelines provided by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
These explain that businesses should look to default an account no earlier than three 
months, and no later than six months, from when a customers account falls into arrears. As 
Miss K was engaging with Barclays until December 2019, I think this time period started after 
this. So, Im satisfied Barclays applied the default correctly in May 2020, five months after 
Miss K stop engaging with them. So, I cant say they acted unfairly when doing so.
Ive then thought about whether Barclays made Miss K reasonably aware they intended to 
default her account. And I recognise that when Miss K was in India, she was unable to read 
the correspondence Barclays sent to her home address in the UK. But I think Miss K 
shouldve been aware her account could default before she travelled abroad.Ive seen the letter Barclays sent to Miss K when they cancelled her card and closed her 
account on 28 November 2019. This letter explained the following:
This is a formal notice that gives you 28 days to fully clear any outstanding arrears or call us 
to agree a way forward. If you dont do this, we will register a Default with the credit 
reference agencies. 
Im aware Miss K disputes she received this letter. But Ive seen Barclays system notes 
which show Miss K called them on 4 and 12 December 2019, after this letter was sent, to 
dispute their decision to close her account. So, Im satisfied she did receive this letter and 
she referred to the information contained within it.
And these case notes confirm Miss K did not agree a way forward. Miss K put forward 
setting up a direct debit of £15. But Ive seen from the notes that Barclays refused this and 
advised Miss K to set up a formal payment plan. The notes also explain Miss K refused this 
as she said she didnt have the time and was due to travel abroad before ending the call. So, 
I dont think Miss K and Barclays had agreed a way forward at this point. And I can see from 
the statements that Miss K failed to clear the outstanding arrears. So, I think Miss K was 
made reasonably aware her account would be defaulted in that situation. Because of this, I 
cant say Barclays did anything wrong and so, I dont think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss K wanted. And I recognise the impact the default 
may have on Miss K being able to obtain future credit and this is something I havent taken 
lightly. But Barclays have a responsibility to report the way Miss K managed her account 
accurately to her credit file. This is to ensure prospective lenders are able to fairly calculate 
the risk theyre taking on when lending. I think Barclays have reported to Miss Ks credit file 
fairly on this occasion and so, I wont be asking them to remove the default.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint about Barclays Bank UK 
PLC trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman