DRN-3254657
The complaint
Miss M has complained that TSB Bank plc didnt offer her appropriate assistance with 
repaying her overdraft. Shes also unhappy with the overall level of service that TSB has 
provided to her.
What happened
Miss M contacted TSB on 25 February 2021. She wanted to discuss how TSB could help her 
to repay her overdraft facility. TSB said it would pass her on to its Customer Support Unit 
(CSU), but when they were busy she was told she would receive a call back within 24 hours. 
When TSB didnt call Miss M back as promised she contacted it again the next day, and was 
put through to the CSU to discuss her account. Miss M wanted TSB to help her by 
essentially closing her account so she could make payments in to reduce the debt but wasnt 
able to use the account for spending. I can see from the notes TSB took of that conversation 
that it explained it would not be able to close the account with an overdrawn balance. TSB 
also explained that if the account stayed over the arranged overdraft limit it would be passed 
to the collections department who may be able to arrange a repayment plan. However, TSB 
had taken details of Miss Ms income and expenditure during this call, and those details 
suggested that Miss M was overcommitted and would not be able to afford a repayment 
plan, so TSB referred her to a debt management charity for help with her finances. It seems 
TSB also explained that as Miss M wasnt being charged for her arranged overdraft, any 
payments in would reduce the balance, and she could reduce the overdraft limit herself 
when she made payments in to stop her from using those funds for spending.
Miss M was unhappy with this advice, she said she didnt need the help of a debt 
management charity and felt TSB hadnt given her any reasonable options for repaying her 
overdraft. So she raised a complaint about how TSB had dealt with her concerns and was 
passed to a manager in the CSU. The manager reiterated the advice that Miss M had been 
given, and it appears this call was then cut off, although its not clear exactly why this 
happened.
Miss M remained unhappy, and after she had sent a series of emails to TSB, the bank sent 
her its final response on 2 March 2021. TSB acknowledged that it didnt call Miss M back 
when promised, and that the call with the manager had been cut off, and offered Miss M £75 
to recognise these service failures. But TSB remained satisfied that it had offered her 
appropriate advice about her overdraft. Miss M remained unhappy, so she referred her 
complaint to us.
Miss Ms complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think TSB had 
acted unfairly. Miss M didnt agree, and so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Firstly, Im satisfied that the £75 TSB has already paid to Miss M is appropriate to recognise 
any failings in its customer service. I can see that TSB did not call her back when promised, 
but other than that, I dont think TSB did anything wrong in how it corresponded with Miss M 
about her complaint. I appreciate that the call with the CSU manager was cut off early, but 
theres nothing to suggest that was intentional on TSBs part. And while I appreciate from 
Miss Ms emails to TSB that she would have liked a quicker response to her complaint, I can 
see that she had TSBs full final response within a few days, and thats an appropriate 
timescale for the bank to look into and respond to a complaint.
Turning to what happened when Mrs M contacted TSB to discuss how to repay the 
overdrawn balance, I can appreciate that TSB wasnt able to give Miss M the specific help 
she wanted. But when an account is operating within its arranged overdraft we wouldnt 
expect the bank to close the account unless the overdraft limit was being removed and the 
account passed to a collections or recoveries department, which could have a potentially 
serious negative impact on Miss Ms credit file. And Miss M has said she wanted to find a 
way to repay the overdraft without being at risk of a default. With this in mind, I think the 
advice that TSB offered was appropriate in the circumstances as Miss M wasnt being 
charged for her arranged overdraft, and payments in would reduce the overdrawn balance 
as long as she stopped spending on the account, and TSB explained she could reduce her 
overdraft limit herself if she wanted to stop herself from spending any of the funds she paid 
into the account. 
And if Miss M did want a more formal repayment plan, TSB explained she would need to 
work with a debt management charity as her income and expenditure had suggested that 
she was unable to afford any formal repayment plan on the account. If Miss Ms 
circumstances have since changed, and she thinks she would now be able to afford a 
regular monthly repayment then she can complete a new income and expenditure form with 
TSB and it will see what further assistance it can offer her. 
With all of this in mind, I think that overall TSB has acted reasonably here and has offered 
Miss M appropriate advice given her circumstances. So I wont be asking TSB to do anything 
more.
I know this will be disappointing to Miss M, but Im satisfied that TSB hasnt acted 
inappropriately, so I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman