DRN-3381845
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the way The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) has handled a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to NFU, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
In August 2020, Mr and Mrs R submitted a claim under their legal expenses insurance policy 
regarding a contract dispute involving a property they own abroad. 
NFU instructed one of its panel firms to assess the claim  who Ill refer to as D  but they 
couldnt act as the claim fell outside of UK jurisdiction. NFU instructed another panel firm  
who Ill call B  but they also declined to take the case on for the same reason. So NFU told 
Mr and Mrs R that they could choose their own solicitor.
After a month of making enquiries, Mr and Mrs R informed NFU that they were struggling to 
find a solicitor who would take on this case. They said as the solicitors role would be limited 
to overseeing the work of a solicitor abroad, no one wanted to act. NFU said it had no other 
panel firms to offer, but it did an internet search and emailed over a list of solicitors not on its 
panel who could handle foreign claims. 
In October 2020, after still having no luck, Mr and Mrs R asked their solicitor abroad to 
recommend a firm in the UK. They were finally able to find someone and NFU were provided 
with their details. The solicitor contacted NFU, who responded to say it was making 
enquiries with one of its panel firms  namely B. 
This time, B agreed to take on the case. But Mr and Mrs R wanted to use the solicitor theyd 
found. NFU declined this request, saying that B were its specialist firm for foreign claims and 
that it wouldnt be prepared to agree the use of a non-panel firm. Mr and Mrs R were 
unhappy as theyd been told to find their own solicitor and had spent a considerable amount 
of time doing so, only to later be told that they couldnt use them. So they raised a complaint. 
In February 2021, NFU issued a response to the complaint. It acknowledged that conflicting 
information over the appointment of a solicitor had been provided and that there had been 
some delays and communication issues. It offered £250 compensation for what went wrong 
and £100 compensation for delays responding to the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy. So NFU issued a further response in March 2021. It 
agreed to the instruction of Mr and Mrs Rs chosen solicitor. And it acknowledged that it 
hadnt actioned some agreed points. It offered a further £250 compensation. 
NFU then contacted Mr and Mrs Rs chosen solicitor requesting that he complete a claims 
management report. The solicitor responded to advise that he hadnt seen a copy of the 
policy terms or the full details of the claim yet. And that he wouldnt be prepared to conduct 
any work until hed received confirmation that his costs were covered by the policy. So NFU 
asked for details of his hourly rate in order to agree a fee for completing the report. 
Mr and Mrs R raised a further complaint. They were unhappy their solicitor had been asked 
to complete the report before the claim could be accepted by the policy and progressed. And 
they were dissatisfied with the length of time taken to progress the case.
In May 2021, NFU responded to this complaint. It said it couldnt accept the claim until it was 
satisfied it enjoyed reasonable prospects of success. So it would require the solicitors report 
before it could put indemnity in place. But that it was prepared to pay the solicitors costs for 
providing the report which isnt something the policy usually covers. 
In this response, NFU accepted that there had been delays with the claims progression, as 
well as delays in dealing with a subject access request (SAR) made by Mr and Mrs R. So for 
this, NFU offered further compensation of £150.
In August 2021, NFU instructed Mr and Mrs Rs chosen solicitor to act under the policy. At 
that time, the solicitor sent his terms of business to Mr and Mrs R, which included details of 
his fees. They were concerned that it said theyd be liable for these costs, given that it was 
NFUs requirement to use a solicitor in both the UK and abroad for this claim. 
So in September 2021, Mr and Mrs R raised another complaint. They highlighted that theyd 
incurred additional consequential losses because of the delays in this case. And theyd been 
unable to go on a holiday theyd booked as the dispute over their property abroad had 
escalated, which had resulted in Mr and Mrs R being denied access. 
NFU responded to this complaint in October 2021. It said it couldnt be held responsible for 
the consequential losses. And that whilst it acknowledges there had been delays, it was 
satisfied it had fairly compensated Mr and Mrs R for this in their previous complaints. 
As Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy, they brought their complaints to our service. I 
understand they havent deposited any of the compensation cheques as yet, and they feel 
the amount offered doesnt fairly reflect whats gone wrong and the impact its had. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaints. Whilst he agreed thered been failings in the 
service provided by NFU, he was satisfied the compensation offered was fair. And he didnt 
think it needed to do anything more. As Mr and Mrs R didnt agree, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr and Mrs R that whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the 
complaint points in far less detail and in my own words, Ive read and considered everything 
theyve told us. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored anything 
 I havent. Im satisfied Ive captured the essence of the complaint and I dont need to 
comment on every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail they would like, in order 
to reach what I think is a fair outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects 
the informal nature of our service.
I will address what I consider to be the main complaint points separately below:
Choice of solicitors Its not in dispute that NFU gave Mr and Mrs R conflicting information about the instruction of 
a solicitor. NFU acknowledges that it told them to find a solicitor of their own choice and later 
said they must use a panel firm. So I dont need to make a finding here on whether or not 
NFU did something wrong  it did. What I need to decide is whether NFU has done enough 
to put things right. 
Where a business has done something wrong, Id expect it to put the customer back in the 
situation they wouldve been in had everything been done correctly. In this case, NFU 
incorrectly denied Mr and Mrs R freedom of choice. But it has now agreed to instruct the 
non-panel solicitor. So Im satisfied Mr and Mrs R have been returned to the position they 
should be in. 
But that doesnt make up for the distress and inconvenience caused, which they should be 
compensated for. Ill deal with this separately below. 
Legal assessment
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs legal expenses insurance policy say that cover 
will be provided as long as a claim has reasonable prospects of success, defined as being at 
least a 51% chance that the policyholder will recover losses or damages.
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies. And its common practice for an 
insurer to require an assessment on prospects before putting cover in place. This is because 
until reasonable prospects have been established, an insurer cant satisfy itself that the claim 
has met the policy terms and conditions. So the claim cant be accepted.
The policy is clear that it wont pay costs and expenses incurred before [NFUs] written 
acceptance of a claim. For this reason, the policy doesnt always cover the prospects 
assessment where a non-panel solicitor is being used.
In this case, NFU asked Mr and Mrs Rs chosen solicitor to complete a case management 
report which included an assessment of prospects. And I understand why the solicitor 
couldnt do this as he had only been approached by Mr and Mrs R to see if he could act. He 
hadnt engaged in the claim in any way at that stage. But this doesnt mean NFU were wrong 
to ask for this information. 
I can see that NFU offered to pay the solicitors fees to complete this report. Whilst this isnt 
something the policy would usually pay for; I think it was a fair offer to make given the 
circumstances of why Mr and Mrs R sought their own solicitor. So I dont think they need to 
do anything more here.
Terms of business 
After NFU agreed to the acceptance of the claim and the appointment of the non-panel 
solicitor, Mr and Mrs R were provided with their solicitors terms of business. This stated the 
following regarding the fees:
As matters stand, you will be indemnified for legal costs by [NFU] according to rates agreed 
with them, set out below. This is subject to their terms and also a review of my file on 
conclusion. Should [NFU] refuse to pay certain of this firms properly incurred costs, then you 
will appreciate that I need to reserve the right to seek those fees from you  but I consider 
this unlikely and of course the very essence of my instruction relates to securing the 
indemnity from your [NFU].I understand why this caused Mr and Mrs R concern. But I think its made clear to them that 
the solicitor intends to recover his costs from NFU and its only in the unlikely event of a 
dispute that Mr and Mrs R would become liable. 
Mr and Mrs R raised concerns to NFU that they shouldnt be held responsible for contractual 
disputes between the solicitor and NFU. But at this stage, that hasnt happened. Our service 
cant deal with a complaint about a hypothetical situation or something that may happen. If 
this does happen, they can raise a complaint about it at that time and bring it to our service. 
Customer service 
Its not in dispute that theres been some failings in NFUs customer service. It acknowledges 
that there have been delays with progressing the claim, actioning a SAR and responding to 
one of the complaints. In addition, there have been some calls that couldve been handled 
better including one where the call dropped, and the advisor failed to call back.
So again, I dont need to make a finding on whether NFU has done something wrong here. 
What I need to decide is whether it has done enough to put things right. Ill deal with that 
below.
Distress and inconvenience
Im aware that Mr and Mrs R have raised their complaints separately, as and when errors 
have occurred. As such, NFU has paid compensation on three separate occasions  totalling 
£750. Our service doesnt award compensation for each individual mistake. Instead, we take 
a holistic view of everything thats happened and make an award based on the overall 
impact.
Ive looked solely at the issues I think NFU should pay compensation for  which are the 
sections entitled choice of solicitors and customer service. Having done so, I think Mr and 
Mrs R have been caused distress and inconvenience that couldve been avoided. This was 
at an already stressful time when theyre dealing with a legal dispute where theyve been 
denied access to their property. I cant imagine how difficult this mustve been and I dont 
underestimate how they must be feeling. 
But no amount of compensation will undo the additional stress caused. And compensation 
isnt designed to fine or punish a business. NFU has taken steps to rectify the mistakes, like 
allowing Mr and Mrs R freedom of choice and paying the cost of the legal assessment. So 
overall, Im satisfied £750 is a fair resolution to whats gone wrong in this case. 
Consequential losses 
Mr and Mrs R say that due to the time taken to deal with their claim, the dispute has 
escalated, and theyve been denied access to their property by the third party. As a result, 
they couldnt go on a holiday booked for September 2021. Theyve asked NFU to pay them 
the cost of their flights as well as over £11,000 of lost holiday time. 
Whilst its acknowledged that NFU has caused some delays, I havent seen anything to 
suggest that had the claim progressed correctly Mr and Mrs R wouldve had access to their 
property in September 2021. Legal disputes are often lengthy, especially when pursuing 
claims abroad. So there is no guarantee that the matter wouldve been resolved or that the 
third party wouldnt have retaliated to the legal case by blocking access. 
For this reason, Im not persuaded that NFU are responsible for these losses and Im not 
asking it to pay them.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limiteds offer of £750 compensation is fair. And Im not asking it to pay anything 
more. 
If the cheques issued have now expired, Mr and Mrs R should let NFU know so that new 
cheques can be sent. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman