DRN-2597757
The complaint
Mr V complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him two packaged bank accounts (PBAs). 
These were a Silver account in 2009 and a Gold account in 2012.
What happened
Mr V opened a Silver account with Lloyds in 2009. This happened at a meeting Mr V had 
with Lloyds. He says this was when he first came to work in the UK. 
The Silver account cost £7.95 per month. It came with benefits that included AA roadside 
vehicle breakdown cover, mobile phone cover and European travel insurance. 
In 2012, Mr V changed his account to a Gold account. He did this online. The Gold account 
cost £12.95 per month and came with benefits that included AA roadside vehicle breakdown 
cover, mobile phone cover and worldwide travel insurance. The first £100 of any agreed 
overdraft was interest and fee free. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Mr V didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr V says the adviser in 2009 told him he could only use an overdraft if he opened at least a 
Silver account. He says he never used the travel insurance that came with it.
Ive considered these points, and also generally looked at whether the PBA was mis-sold. 
This did happen about 12 years ago, and it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt 
remember the detail of everything that happened that long ago. So I must bear that in 
mind when looking at the case. 
To fairly say Lloyds acted wrongly, I would need to have reasonable evidence to show 
that Lloyds misled Mr V and, if it did, that this made a difference to whether he took the 
account in 2009. But I dont have that evidence. 
I cant be certain what Mr Vs thoughts were during the actual meeting with the Lloyds 
adviser in 2009; but it doesnt look as though he wanted to make use of the overdraft at 
the time  at least he didnt make use of an overdraft after he took out the Silver account. 
Also, there is some evidence that Mr V was interested in the mobile phone cover at the 
time. And it looks reasonably likely he could have made use of the travel insurance. So I 
think the account was appropriate for Mr Vs needs, and a recommendation by Lloyds was 
reasonable. It would then have been up to Mr V to decide whether, for him, it was worth 
the monthly cost. 
Just because someone has never needed to make a claim doesnt mean that it was a 
waste of money having the insurances available. Insurance can offer reassurance in case 
you need to use it. 
So I dont have good evidence to decide the Silver account was mis-sold in the way Mr V 
now says. 
I also think its unlikely the Gold account was mis-sold in 2012. Mr V went online to 
choose this account upgrade. So this strongly suggests he actively wanted the extra 
benefits the Gold account gave. I think its likely he was given reasonable information on 
which to base that choice. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman