DRN-3693878
The complaint
Ms P complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) caused delays with completing repairs 
when she made a claim on her home emergency policy.
There are several parties and representatives of Aviva involved throughout the complaint but 
for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Aviva.
What happened
Ms P raised a claim on her home emergency policy with Aviva. She had two separate issues 
which were raised on the same day at the same time. Aviva made appointments for the two 
issues to be looked at. One was an issue with the toilet flush and the other an issue with a 
leak to a pipe under the wash basin.
On 22 October 2021 an Aviva approved plumber attended to look at the issue with the flush 
on her toilet. The plumber didnt have the correct replacement part, so a new part was 
ordered.  
On 27 October 2021 an Aviva approved plumber attended to look at the leak from the water 
pipe under the wash basin. A temporary repair was made as the plumber didnt have the 
correct replacement part. A new part was ordered.
Ms P was contacted by Aviva to say it had the parts for both issues and an appointment was 
booked for these to be replaced. A plumber attended but did not have the parts with him so 
could not complete the repairs.
It took a number of appointments and until 11 November 2021 for the basin pipe to be 
replaced. 
Ms P made a complaint to Aviva in November 2021. Aviva offered £200 in compensation for 
the amount of time it had taken to resolve the issue at her property. It said it was not the 
level of service it aimed to deliver. Ms P accepted the offer. 
After several issues with obtaining and fitting the toilet flush part it was finally replaced on 17 
December 2021.
After both the toilet flush and basin were repaired Ms P complained to Aviva again about the 
time taken to resolve her claim, the number of visits from the plumbers and issues with parts. 
Aviva said after taking into account all of the issues Ms P had, it felt that the compensation 
should be increased by a further £175, making a total of £375..
.
As Ms P was not happy with Aviva, she brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said Aviva had 
made mistakes and appreciated how frustrating this would have been for Ms P and she was 
entitled to a better level of service. However they felt Avivas apology and compensation 
offer was fair and reasonable in this case. 
As Ms P is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case Aviva acknowledged there were delays and a shortfall in the service given to 
Ms P. 
I understand that Ms P sees the issues with the toilet flush and the basin pipe as two  
separate complaints. In this case Aviva said it has considered the complaint about the two 
claim issues as one whole complaint and taken in to account all the issues Ms P had 
together. It has not looked at the two issues separately.
Aviva said its offer is what it feels is fair after taking into account the inconvenience overall 
after Ms P made the claim. 
It is my role to  assess whether Aviva have put things right and awarded compensation fairly 
based on the circumstances of Ms Ps complaint. It is not our role, or within our power, to 
look at Avivas complaint process. So I am unable to ask it to look at this complaint as two 
separate complaints and give two separate responses as Ms P would like.
I saw there were issues when ordering the parts for both the toilet flush and the basin pipe. 
The parts were ordered and did not arrive as expected. This resulted in plumbers attending 
appointments at Ms Ps home and then not being able to undertake the required repairs.
I also saw there was a difference of opinion between plumbers about the toilet flush part. 
When it was eventually fitted, it was found that the first plumber had incorrectly thought it 
was not the correct part. This caused a delay in fitting the flush.
Ms P had to chase Aviva for updates on a number of occasions. I understand that this will 
have been very frustrating and time consuming for Ms P and I think Aviva could have offered 
a better level of service. 
I think in this case there were some delays which were out of Avivas control, such as waiting 
for the specific non-standard plumbing parts. However, I have seen that Aviva did not 
progress the claim as well as it couldve done at various points in the claims process and this 
led to some avoidable delays. 
I saw that Aviva offered a total of £200 after Ms P first complained about the poor service in 
November 2021. At this point in the claim the broken pipe had been replaced but the toilet 
flush part was still to be fitted. I saw that Ms P complained further in early 2022 and Aviva 
increased its offer by a further £175, making a total of £375.
Aviva said the increase was to take in to account all the issues Ms P had. The total 
compensation was for the delays with the parts, a cancelled appointment, the number of 
visits taken to resolve the claims and because Ms P had to chase it for updates on a number 
of occasions.
I have considered if the total offer of £375 compensation Aviva have made is a sufficient way 
to resolve the delays and inconvenience it caused to Ms P. I acknowledge that Aviva 
mentioned thresholds to Ms P, however after reviewing the evidence in detail and the impact on Ms P, I think £375 is a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances of this case, 
regardless of any limits that Aviva may have.
I understand that this isn't the outcome Ms P was hoping for, however I do not uphold her 
complaint and do not require Aviva to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman