DRN-2781924
The complaint
Mr A and Miss H complain about damage caused to their car when Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited replaced their windscreen.
What happened
At the relevant time, Mr A and Miss H had a car insurance policy underwritten by Advantage.
They made a claim after their windscreen was damaged. Advantage arranged for their 
preferred supplier (which Ill call X) to replace it.
Xs engineer attended and, in attempting to replace the windscreen, damaged the 
windscreen trim.
Mr A and Miss H werent happy about this and complained to Advantage. They wanted 
Advantage to pay to have the windscreen trim repaired or replaced.
Advantage said the windscreen trim had been poorly fitted and/or repaired at an earlier time. 
And that meant it was difficult for Xs engineer to remove it  which was necessary in order 
to fit the new windscreen  without damaging it.
When Mr A and Miss H first contacted Advantage they were told Xs engineer, when he 
encountered this problem, should have requested that the car be taken to a dealer to have 
the new windscreen fitted.
They later said that initial advice had been wrong. They said that after reviewing the case, 
they were certain the earlier damage and/or repairs to the windscreen trim meant it could 
never have been removed - and a new windscreen fitted  without further damage.
They said the evidence showed that the bolts which held the trim were corroded  and that 
someone had previously tried to keep the trim in place using some kind of glue. This had 
made it impossible to remove the trim easily and by the manufacturers originally intended 
method.
Advantage concluded that the windscreen trim was damaged before Xs engineers visit, to 
the extent that the windscreen couldnt have been replaced without further damage to the 
trim. And so, they said the necessary repairs werent covered under Mr A and Miss Hs 
policy.
However, because of the initial confusion and as a gesture of goodwill, they offered to pay 
for half the cost of the repairs to the windscreen trim.
Mr A and Miss H werent happy with this and brought their complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and thought Advantage should pay the whole cost of the repairs to the 
windscreen trim.
Advantage disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Because I disagreed with our investigators view, I decided to issue a provisional decision. 
That gave both Advantage and Mr A and Miss H an opportunity to provide further information 
or evidence and/or to comment on my thinking before I make my final decision, which is our 
services last word on this case. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case about what Mr A and Miss Hs policy covers. It covers 
replacing the windscreens if theyre damaged. And it covers damage caused to the 
vehicle by accidents.
Wed also expect that Advantage would take responsibility if they  or their agents  
damaged a vehicle whilst carrying out repairs. Again, I dont believe theres any 
dispute about this.
The only dispute here is about what caused the damage to Mr A and Miss Hs 
windscreen trim.
In essence, Mr A and Miss H say the trim was fine until Xs engineer tried to take it 
off to replace the windscreen. And effectively it was his incompetence which caused 
the damage.
Advantage say the windscreen couldnt have been replaced without damage to the 
trim because it was already damaged, by wear and tear - and by, not to mince words 
about it, a previous botched repair.
I should say at this point that Mr A and Miss H havent owned the car throughout its 
lifetime. So, Advantages suggestion that there have been repairs to the trim doesnt 
mean theyre saying Mr A and Miss H carried out those repairs themselves.
Its also important to say that I cant establish with certainty what previous repairs 
may have been carried out on the vehicle. I have to base my decision on what 
appears most likely to have happened, on the balance of probability, given the 
evidence thats currently available.
We have copies of photographs taken by Xs engineer at the relevant time. They 
appear to show the inside of the windscreen trim and the binding between the trim 
and the windscreen itself.
The inside of the trim appears to show a degree of wear and corrosion. Theres also 
a very clear area  around where the trim would be attached to the car - which 
appears to be covered in glue of some sort. The binding also appears to be worn and 
aged.
That evidence suggests very strongly to me that someone, in the past, has tried to 
attach the trim by means of gluing it in place. It also suggests they may well have 
done so because the bolts or fixtures which would usually hold the trim in place have 
failed because theyre worn or corroded.On the basis of the information we currently have then, I certainly dont think it was 
unreasonable for Advantage to conclude that the windscreen trim now requires repair 
not because Xs engineer incompetently removed the trim when trying to replace the 
windscreen, but because previous wear and tear was repaired in an inappropriate 
and ultimately damaging manner.
That being the case, I cant say it was unfair or unreasonable for Advantage to 
decide that the damage wasnt covered by Mr A and Miss Hs policy. Nor can I 
reasonably conclude that it was unfair or unreasonable for Advantage to offer to 
cover half the cost of the necessary repairs, as a gesture of goodwill.
If there is any further evidence or information we dont currently have, Advantage and 
Mr A and Miss H have an opportunity to provide it now, before I make my final 
decision. They also have the opportunity to comment on my current thinking, as set 
out above.
And on that basis, I said that I was minded not to uphold Mr A and Miss Hs complaint.
The responses to my provisional decision
Advantage havent provided and substantive comments in response to my provisional 
decision.
Mr A and Miss H have provided some comments and some further information. 
Theyve sent us a copy of an invoice for a windscreen replacement carried out on the car in 
November 2013 by an Audi dealership. The customer named on that invoice isnt Mr A or 
Miss H and I assume the work was done before they took ownership of the car. 
Mr A tells us he hadnt sent this invoice to us before now because he overlooked it in his 
frustration with the events which led to this complaint. He believes it shows that any previous 
windscreen repair / replacement was carried out correctly.
Mr A still believes that when Xs engineer identified a problem with replacing the windscreen, 
he should have stopped and given Mr A and Miss H the option to ask Advantage to send the 
car to an Audi garage. He thinks the windscreen could then have been replaced without 
damaging the trim. 
Mr A also said, about the bonding evident in the photographs taken by Xs engineer:
I would also like to point out that the bonding pointed out in the photo is how the 
fixings are held on from new but the photo shows the bonding done during the repair 
not before.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at the original information again and considered Mr A and Miss Hs further 
comments, I havent changed my mind about the outcome of this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ill take Mr As comments on the bonding first. Ive purposely quoted (above) Mr As 
response to my provisional decision directly. Thats because I found it difficult to summarise 
a statement that appears to me to be self-contradictory. The bonding seen in the photograph cant be both the means the trim is held on when the 
car is first manufactured (from new) but also the bonding done during the windscreen repair 
by Xs engineer.
The bonding appears dry - and appears to have been snapped at the edges in the 
photograph, so I dont think it was applied by Xs engineer at the time of the repair.
I still think the bonding indicates a previous repair, but even if it doesnt, that isnt the only 
evidence in the photographs that there was a pre-existing problem with the fixing of the trim. 
As I said in my provisional decision, the photographs also appear to show wear and 
corrosion inside the trim.
I have to ask Mr A and Miss H to remember that Im not in a position to say with absolute 
certainty whats happened here. My decision has to be based on whether it was fair and 
reasonable for Advantage to draw the conclusions they did from the evidence they were 
presented with. 
It seems to me not unreasonable for Advantage to conclude that there was a pre-existing 
issue with the trim when presented with the photographic evidence which appears to support 
the account given to them by Xs engineer.
Turning to the invoice now provided by Mr A and Miss H, this shows that there was a 
windscreen replacement in 2013. 
Its not absolute proof that that 2013 replacement was carried out correctly, but the fact that 
it was carried out by an Audi garage  and no problems were reported at the time  seems 
to suggest on balance that its likely everything was in order. 
However, the invoice doesnt tell us anything about what might have happened after that 
time. And I have to bear in mind that this complaint came about after an attempted 
replacement in 2020  around seven years later.
In conclusion, I still take the view that its more likely than not that the damage to the trim 
caused by Xs engineers replacement of the windscreen was the result of pre-existing 
issues with the way the trim was fixed before Xs engineers visit.
I think the damage was therefore most likely inevitable and couldnt have been avoided if the 
windscreen was to be replaced. So, Im not convinced that there would have been a different 
outcome had the car been taken to an Audi garage.
I dont think Advantage have done anything wrong in concluding that they werent 
responsible for the now required repairs to Mr A and Miss Hs cars trim. So, Im not going to 
uphold the complaint or require Advantage to do anything to put things right. 
If Advantage wish to stand by their offer to pay for half the cost of the repairs, which would 
appear the reasonable thing to do given what theyve previously said to Mr A and Miss H, 
thats a matter for them  and Ill leave them to discuss that with Mr A and Miss H.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman