DRN-4275257
The complaint
A company which Ill call B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc behaved unreasonably 
when completing its banking checks.  
The complaint is brought on Bs behalf by one of their directors, Mr S.
What happened
B held a business account with Barclays. In spring 2022, the bank requested information so 
it could complete its Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. 
Mr S told us:
He sent the information Barclays had requested for B. However, the bank said the 
confirmation statements (the statements) were incorrect as it needed the full 
forenames of shareholders, not just the initial.
He was told to file amendments for B with Companies House however the 
statements had been submitted in this way without issue for the last 9 years. He 
didnt agree so hed complained to Barclays who said it required the statements in 
this format, regardless of the law. 
In February 2023, Barclays restricted Bs account saying that further KYC information 
was needed despite all the information already being provided. The bank also said it 
had sent B letters requesting further information, but none of these letters had been 
received. 
Hed called Barclays several times in March and the calls had been dropped, 
however when hed finally spoken to the bank, hed been told he still needed to 
change the names on Bs statement. But when he challenged this, Barclays accepted 
this was no longer required. 
Barclays actions, poor call handling and incorrect information about the statements, 
had caused inconvenience to B and distress to the directors whod had to check the 
legal information and Companies House to clarify the banks request. So, he wanted 
Barclays to pay B £250 compensation.  
Barclays told us:
In July 2022, it contacted B as it needed KYC information about their shareholders. 
This had been requested through notifications within Bs online banking.
In July 2022, it had spoken to Mr S and told him that it needed Bs shareholders full 
names to be registered, not just their initial. This was required as part of its regulatory 
obligations. 
This information had remained outstanding from June 2022, but it hadnt taken 
further action until early 2023 as it had been focusing on higher risk customers. 
There hadnt been any impact to B due to this however, as Bs account itself hadnt 
been restricted, they had only been prevented from applying for new products whilst 
there was information outstanding. 
It had written to B in March 2023 to say their actual account would be restricted if the 
information wasnt provided. However, its process has now changed so it could 
accept initials on confirmation statements. Mr S had supplied the other outstanding 
information on the call of 8 March 2023, so the KYC checks had been completed and 
Bs account had been fully restored.
It had required information from B to complete its checks and had sent reminder 
letters about this, but this hadnt been received until Mr Ss call on 8 March 2023.
It accepted its customer service on calls which had disconnected on 7 March 2023 
could have been better, so it offered B £50 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the £50 
compensation offered by the bank was reasonable for the poor service Mr S had received 
when speaking to it in March. She said that she was satisfied that the bank had needed 
other information from B  not just the shareholders full names as the company believed  
so it was fair for Barclays to restrict the account. She was also satisfied that Barclays had 
sent reminder letters to B, and that even if these hadnt been received, theyd said there was 
information request on their webpage. And that the bank had removed the restriction in a 
reasonable timescale once it had received the information. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said that B had already provided all the information Barclays had 
requested so had no reason to expect more information was needed. He also thought the 
investigator was biased for accepting Barclays had sent the letters with no proof from the 
bank and insisted these hadnt been received. Mr S said that Barclays system had told them 
when they logged in that they KYC information had been received and referred to the 
conflicting information hed been given on the call with the bank. He remained unhappy and 
asked for an ombudsman to review Bs complaint. So, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr S feels strongly about whats happened, but Im sorry to disappoint him as 
theres not much more that I can add to what our investigator has already said. I recognise 
Mr S may have found it frustrating that the bank asked for Bs shareholders full names to be 
registered on Companies House, rather than just their initials. I also acknowledge that both 
parties dispute whether this was as reasonable request. However, Im not persuaded that 
had a significant impact here, because the bank also required other information from B to 
complete its checks, and Bs account wasnt actually restricted at any point whilst Barclays 
was waiting for information.
Mr S says that B wasnt aware there were any KYC requirements outstanding as they didnt 
get any notification from Barclays. He also says its unreasonable for this service to accept 
that the bank sent letters without any proof. But Im not persuaded thats the case here. I 
recognise the KYC page on Bs online banking may have said there was no outstanding 
information, however there was another alert saying there were outstanding requirements, 
so I think this ought to have prompted B to contact Barclays in any event to see which statement was correct. Even if there wasnt an issue with the KYC information which Mr S 
says was showing correctly, I think it was clear that the bank needed something further from 
B which they needed to action  even if it had been simply to remove what they believe was 
an incorrect alert.
Furthermore, although as a service we dont have copies of the exact letters that were sent 
by Barclays, due to its process, I have seen generic copies of the letters that were sent. Ive 
also seen the banks audit case notes which show when and where these were sent. So, on 
the balance of probability, Im satisfied thats enough. However, even if I accept that 
Barclays didnt send any of the letters it says were issued, and that Bs online banking was 
incorrect, its not for me to fine or punish a business for making a mistake. 
I havent seen that there was any actual impact to B here, because the letters sent by 
Barclays simply say that they are restricted from applying for further products with the bank 
until the KYC issue is resolved  not that that their account was restricted. Ive reviewed Bs 
account statements which show their account activity wasnt restricted throughout this 
period, and I havent seen any evidence that B wanted, or attempted, to apply for new 
products with the bank at that time. I also think if Bs account had been restricted in the 
manner theyve suggested, they would have been aware of this and taken action to resolve 
the KYC issue with Barclays much sooner. 
Based on what Ive seen, the first letter that B received saying that their account may be 
restricted was in March 2023. I recognise that Mr S says he called the bank about this letter 
and was cut off on several occasions and then given incorrect information. However, as our 
investigator has already mentioned, this was for a matter of minutes, and I dont think its 
reasonable to penalise Barclays because its call handler clarified the KYC information that 
was required from B to ensure this was correct. Barclays has already apologised for the 
issues Mr S experienced with the calls and offered B £50 for the inconvenience caused. 
Given the circumstances of the complaint, Im satisfied that Barclays has done enough to put 
things right. 
Mr S told us that Bs directors had been caused distress and inconvenience due to Barclays 
actions. But this complaint has been brought on Bs behalf, so B is the eligible complainant.
This means that I cant look at any distress or inconvenience caused to the directors in a 
personal capacity. Limited companies like B, as corporate bodies rather than individuals, are 
not capable of suffering distress, which means I can only look at the inconvenience caused 
to B by Barclays actions. 
I dont dispute there has been an impact here, but Im satisfied that this from the multiple 
calls that Mr S made to the bank when he received the KYC letter in March 2023. However, I 
need to make clear that we dont award compensation based on an hourly rate and, Im not 
persuaded this led to the level of inconvenience which B says they have incurred. Therefore, 
given all the circumstances of Bs complaint, I think £50 is fair compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
 
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay £50.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman