DRN-2203398
The complaint
Mr O says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr O bought the policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a loan. He applied for the loan 
and PPI policy over the phone. 
The policys one-off upfront premium of £1,015.87 was paid in advance by being added to 
the loan (a single premium) where it attracted interest over the term of the loan. The loan 
was repayable over a 72-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan. The 
monthly loan repayment was £104.11, with the PPI costing an additional £17.63, making the 
total monthly repayment £121.74. 
The policy provided cover for Mr O for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Os monthly loan repayment for up to 
the remaining term in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time, Mr O was employed as a call centre agent. He has told us he cant remember 
whether he was entitled to any sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying his 
loan should he be unable to work.  He may have been entitled to statutory redundancy pay. 
Mr O has said he was in good health at the time of the sale, although he broke his ankle in 
1989, which caused him to miss three months work. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2006.
Mr Os representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Os representative says:
Nationwide failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr O wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Os representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means Nationwide should 
have told Mr O about the poor value; 
The cancellation terms were unfair;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr O and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr O disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Os. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Os complaint
This sale took place in 2003, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses 
and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2006. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private customers  the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC code, which set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including PPI. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI code and 
these other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Os case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, contract (including the express and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nationwide was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when considering Mr Os complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
- If Nationwide gave advice, whether it advised Mr O with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether Nationwide gave Mr O sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, 
including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mr O, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr O suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr O and 
Nationwide, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Os complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. did Mr O know he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
The credit agreement described the PPI as optional and set out its cost separately to the 
costs of the loan. Nationwides sales process at the time also required the quote for the loan 
to be provided both with and without PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr O knew the policy was optional 
and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide advice?
Nationwide says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr O hasnt given his opinion on 
this. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Nationwide did provide advice. 
This means Nationwide didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr O. Instead, it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr O to make an informed 
choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr O was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr O was 
unable to work through accident, sickness and unemployment). I have reached this 
conclusion because Mr O has told us that he understood it would protect him if he couldnt 
work, and I think its unlikely that Mr O would have taken out the policy without any sense of 
what the policy was. 
I think Mr O knew that the single premium being added to the loan was £1,015.87, the 
interest added to the premium was £253.49, the total cost was £1,269.36 and the monthly 
cost was £17.63 (as this information was, in my view, sufficiently clear on the loan 
agreement Mr O signed).  
But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations before 
Mr O agreed to take out the policy. 
So, I dont think Nationwide gave Mr O sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable him to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and its significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr Os representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Os. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Os representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mr O about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Os representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr O has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide ought to have done either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mr O? To what extent did Mr O 
suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr O. 
So, Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr O 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr O 
would have still taken out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mr O says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr O had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr O chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based on incomplete information. So, what Mr O thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr O has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As Ive already said, the information Mr O was given about the cost was clear. This included 
the single premium to be added to the loan, the interest payable on the premium, the total 
cost of the PPI and the monthly cost of the PPI. But the information about other aspects of 
the policy, such as benefit, limitations and exclusions, wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr O would get back in return in the 
event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Os expectations about what the 
policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his loan payments) 
were significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr O thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions and symptoms that Mr O 
knew about or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy, and any 
medical condition or disease for which he had received treatment, advice or was 
referred for investigation during the 12 months before the start date and which 
recurred within 12 months of the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr O 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Mr O pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good as he thought, and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr O from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence about Mr Os circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
he wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr O didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he had some 
good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental health conditions or place any additional restrictions 
or more onerous evidential requirements in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied to any other disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr O would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr O needed to be unable to do any work. I dont think this is 
likely to be too different to what he would have expected to make a claim. After all, his 
understanding was that the policy would protect him if he couldnt work. So, it seems unlikely 
he would have thought hed be able to make a successful claim if he was still working.
The policy did provide a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr O decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy, which he ultimately 
did.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr O would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
its likely he thought he was getting and provided benefits that would help him manage the 
consequences were Mr O made redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr O would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Os representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr O would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Os 
circumstances, as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr O 
found himself in, as result of the sale, was the same position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr O believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr O in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept its possible that he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying.
So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should pay Mr O compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would have been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman