DRN-2636906
The complaint
Ms M complains that Bank of Scotland, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) cancelled her debit card 
after she called it to discuss some unknown transactions on her card. Shes also unhappy 
she had to go to the branch to get money and the time spent waiting there.
What happened
In August 2020, Ms M contacted Halifax because there were five transactions debited from 
her account she didnt recognise. During the call, the transactions were discussed and Ms M 
only recognised one of them. So, Halifax cancelled her debit card and arranged to send a 
replacement to her. 
The next day, Ms M called Halifax to complain - she was unhappy her card had been 
cancelled. She says it left her with no money for food or cigarettes which impacted her ability 
to take her medication. And, as shes considered high risk, she didnt want to visit a branch 
to draw money out due to the pandemic. Ms M says she was only confused by the 
transactions and this shouldnt have been enough for the bank to cancel her card. 
Halifax said the call handler was right to cancel the card as this is their standard practice in 
circumstances where a customer says there are transactions they dont recognise. They 
didnt agree the call handler had been rude to Ms M or was trying to catch her out. Halifax 
explained sometimes they need to ask questions to establish what has happened, 
particularly with transactions that have been disputed. As they didnt uphold her complaint, 
Ms M brought it to our service for an independent review.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She gave the following reasons 
for this.
It was only after Ms M was told that Halifax wont refund the four transaction amounts 
that she said she didnt want her card to be cancelled. But she thought the call 
handler was acting in line with Halifaxs process when he cancelled Ms Ms card and 
had made it clear during the call this was going to be done. 
It was reasonable to cancel the card in circumstances where Ms M didnt recall 
authorising several transactions. This is because all financial businesses have a duty 
to ensure they have processes in place to keep all personal details secure and help 
prevent fraud. 
Whilst she felt the call handler couldve been more sympathetic to Mrs M, she didnt 
think this was enough for her to ask Halifax to pay Ms M compensation. 
Ms M disagrees  she feels the call handler was too quick to cancel her card. She also 
makes a number of further points including the following.
She had to wait at the branch for over three hours for her money.
She was concerned about being in the branch with her health conditions and 
wouldnt have needed to be there if Halifax hadnt cancelled her card. As she only 
goes out for breakfast, she thinks she might have caught coronavirus as a result of 
this visit as shes been unwell ever since. However, she explained she hasnt had a 
test as it doesnt bother her.
Halifax agreed to let our service consider the additional issues as part of this complaint. 
They confirmed their view on these additional points as set out below.
In terms of waiting over three hours to be seen, Halifax didnt agree this was the 
case. They confirmed the branch opened at 9.30am, Ms Ms account was accessed 
at 9.35am and the cash was withdrawn at 9.38am. Ms M then phoned them from her 
home at 11.07am and talked about meeting a friend for a coffee.
They noted many other transactions made by Ms M during the pandemic which were 
made using contactless payment.

Our investigator and Ms M communicated about the additional points and our investigator 
explained why they didnt change her recommendation not to uphold the complaint. 
An agreement couldnt be reached so this matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms M that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold her complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call Ms M had with Halifax. After discussing the type of retailers involved, 
Ms M confirmed she remembered one of the transactions but said she didnt recognise the 
other four. As a result, the call handler explained her debit card will be cancelled and a new 
one ordered. He also explained that Halifax wont refund these transactions. This is because 
Ms M confirmed she had the card with her the whole time and, as they were made with the 
card being present, there was been no point of compromise. Ms M then says she doesnt 
want him to cancel the card if he wont give her the money back. He explains she can go into 
the branch to get money out or transfer it to family or friends while shes waiting for her new 
card to arrive. She doesnt agree and says its wrong for the bank to allow someone else to 
use her card and its going to be difficult for her as shes going out for lunch. They discuss 
this further and he recommends she goes to the police to look into this if she wants to take it 
further. 
Whilst I can understand Ms M found this inconvenient, I think Halifax was right to follow its 
procedure to cancel a card in these circumstances. This is a way for the bank to protect its 
customers and their money, irrespective of whether the bank then agrees to refund the 
money to the customer. I also agree with our investigators findings about the service Ms M 
received. It follows that I dont uphold her complaint point about the cancellation of the card 
and the conversations she had about this with Halifax. 
In terms of the additional points raised by Ms M, Ive considered what the bank has said and 
the evidence it sent us. Having done so, I havent seen any indication Ms M had to wait 
either three hours or an unreasonable time in the branch to withdraw money or caught 
coronavirus - as a result of the visit or at all. So, I dont uphold these further complaint points.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman