DRN-1048667
 
The complaint
Mr T complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc, as he was told his 
account would be closed because of comments he made in a survey.
What happened
Mr T completed a survey about the service he received in a branch of Santander. The 
branch manager called him to speak about the comments hed made, and told him he wasnt 
welcome in the branch and his account would be closed down.
Mr T complained about the way he was spoken to.
Santander acknowledged that the service Mr T had received was poor, and the branch 
manager had been given feedback about this. Santander accepted that the issue had 
escalated because of the branch managers behaviour. Santander said Mr Ts account 
wouldnt be closed.  It apologised for the upset he was caused and paid £40 into his account 
as compensation. Santander also said it wouldn't tolerate any threatening behaviour towards 
its staff members.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that Santander had referred to threatening behaviour in its letter as, when the branch 
manager said Mr T wasnt welcome in the branch and his account would be closed, he had 
responded to say well see about that. The investigator said Santander had considered this 
to be threatening.
The investigator considered the actions Santander had taken, including the payment of £40 
and didnt think it needed to do any more than this. He didnt think the branch manager 
shouldve responded to Mr Ts comments on the survey, but he believed it was likely that 
Santander wouldve thanked him for his feedback but also warned Mr T that it wouldnt 
tolerate offensive remarks being made about its staff. 
Mr T didnt agree that he had behaved threateningly. He said he wasnt happy with the 
amount Santander had paid him, as he didnt believe the branch manager shouldve 
personally called him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr T feels that he shouldnt have been called by the branch manager 
about the comments he made on a confidential survey about their particular branch. And 
Santander has accepted that this wasnt appropriate and that it may have antagonised the 
situation. Ive thought about Santanders response to this. It has told us that it has referred the matter 
to the regional manager, and feedback has been given to the branch manager. It has 
apologised to Mr T; taken steps to make sure this wont happen again in the future; and paid 
him £40 to recognise the upset he was caused. It has said that Mr Ts account will not be 
closed as he was told.
I acknowledge that Mr T doesnt consider his behaviour or words to have been threatening. 
But I also think its reasonable in these particular circumstances for Santander to say that it 
wouldn't accept any behaviour that it considers to be threatening towards its staff members. 
Overall, whilst I appreciate that Mr T feels that higher level of compensation should be paid 
to him, I think Santanders actions represent a fair and reasonable resolution to this 
complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman