DRN-3124566
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car supplied by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited was not of satisfactory 
quality.    
What happened
In September 2020 Mr M entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn. He paid 
a deposit of £800; the balance of £6,050 was to be paid over five years at £189.88 a month. 
The car was around six years old and had recorded some 85,000 miles. 
Mr M says that he very soon started experiencing problems with the car. There were 
knocking noises from the engine and its performance was not what he expected. He had 
some difficulty finding a garage able to look at the car, in part because of Covid-19 
measures, but in November 2020 he did arrange an inspection. This showed that the 
engines oil pressure was low and that there was an issue with one of the cylinders.
Mr M says that he then tried unsuccessfully to contact the dealership which provided the car 
and so raised a complaint with Moneybarn. 
Moneybarn arranged for an expert to inspect the car and prepare a report. Having received 
the report, however, Moneybarn did not uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that, as Mr M had 
continued to use the car after the problems came to light, it could not properly be held 
responsible for the damage. 
Mr M referred the case to this service, where one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She noted that the inspection report concluded that the engine damage had 
probably been present at delivery. She recommended that Moneybarn agree to end the 
finance agreement, refund payments made from November 2020, refund the £800 deposit, 
reimburse payments Mr M had made to third parties and pay Mr £200 in recognition of the 
trouble to which he had been put.  
Mr M indicated that he would accept the investigators recommendation but Moneybarn did 
not reply. The case has therefore been passed to me for further consideration.        
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the conditional sale agreement was to be read as 
including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality at delivery. That means of the 
quality that a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. Those circumstances 
include the age, price and mileage of the car. 
The car had a relatively high mileage and was priced accordingly. I would not have expected 
it to be perfect in every respect. However, it was diagnosed within a few months of delivery 
as needing a complete engine rebuild. 
There is no dispute that the car was not of satisfactory quality by November 2020. The 
inspection report suggested however that there was an element of drive on damage  
meaning that Mr M might have exacerbated damage by continuing to use the car. But the 
report also concluded that the fault was probably present at delivery and that the selling 
agent was responsible for repairs. 
In the circumstances, it is a little surprising in my view that Moneybarn did not accept that the 
car was not of satisfactory quality and take steps to remedy the situation. The inspection 
report suggested an element of drive on damage, but not that Mr M was entirely responsible 
for the faults.   
I accept that the car would have shown warning messages and that Mr M probably 
continued to drive it despite them  at least while he was able to do. That may have made 
matters worse and certainly wont have made things any better. There is however no 
indication of the real effect of Mr Ms actions, and the inspection report concluded 
nevertheless that the car was not satisfactory at delivery. I think it more likely than not 
therefore that it would have needed a replacement engine even if Mr M had stopped driving 
it as soon as it showed signs of a fault. 
Moneybarn suggested that the car should be repaired, but I note that Mr M has not been 
able to use it for nearly a year. He has said too that he cannot afford repairs. So, whilst that 
might have been a fair resolution when the problems came to light, I dont believe it would be 
fair now. I agree with the investigator that Mr M should be able to reject the car and end the 
finance agreement.        
Putting things right
Mr M has also provided evidence that he has had and paid for a diagnostic test and that he 
has had the car recovered on three occasions at his expense. The total cost of the test and 
recovery is £253.99, and he should have that sum refunded. In addition, he has been put to 
some inconvenience, and I agree with the investigator that he should be compensated for 
that.        
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Ms complaint, Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should:
end the conditional sale agreement with nothing further to pay;
collect the car at no further cost to Mr M;
refund the deposit of £800;
refund all monthly payments made on or after 14 November 2020;
refund Mr M £253.99 in respect of payments made to third parties, as discussed above;
pay interest at 8% a year simple on all refunds from the date of payment until the date 
of the refund;
pay Mr M a further £200 in recognition of the inconvenience to which Mr M has been put 
and the distress caused to him; and 
remove any adverse credit information which may have been registered against Mr Ms 
name as a result of the conditional sale agreement.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021. 
Mike IngramOmbudsman