DRN-3825170
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a transaction she didnt make.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for these reasons: 
Monzo accepted this was an unauthorised transaction. However, in line with the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017, it refused to refund it because it asserts Miss G 
failed with gross negligence to comply with the terms of the account and keep her 
personalised security details safe.
Having considered the circumstances carefully, Im not persuaded Miss G failed with 
gross negligence. Ill explain why: 
Miss G received a call from someone who said they worked on behalf of several 
banks to prevent fraud. They told her a fraudster was trying to steal money from her 
Nationwide account  and they also needed to investigate and secure her Monzo 
account. For that, they asked her to forward an email shed receive from Monzo to 
them and share her PIN, alongside confirming her card details. 
Monzo submit there was nothing linking the caller to Monzo. But the fraudster 
explained they were working on behalf of several banks as part of a new initiative. I 
dont think that sounds entirely implausible. Thats bearing in mind that most people 
are experiencing this type of call for the first time  this isnt something they receive 
regularly so they could effectively challenge what theyre being told about their bank 
tackles fraud. 
And I note that Miss G did try to question the caller  asking for their name and 
department and why they needed the information they did. I recognise she couldve 
done more  for example, searching their number and the answers they gave online, 
as Monzo highlight. But the test Im considering isnt whether she did everything 
possible to thwart this scam  instead, it whether her actions meant she acted with 
very significant carelessness in comparison to the reasonable person. And 
considering that most people dont go to lengths or indeed know how to effectively 
verify incoming calls, Im not persuaded Monzo has shown thats the case here. 
Monzo also highlight that the email she forwarded warned her not to. But Ive 
considered that Miss G was understandably panicked at the time  after all, she was 
told that fraudsters were in her accounts stealing her money. So I can understand 
why she wouldve been keen to follow their instructions quickly  and how she might 
not have taken proper notice of the warnings. Afterall, its not the case that this 
warning was something she was required to interact with. We also know from our 
experience of scams how fraudsters will cleverly coach people into believing that the 
warnings dont apply to them. 
This isnt to say that Miss G acted perfectly reasonably. But, taking into account the 
elaborate story the fraudsters concocted, Miss Gs inexperience with fraud and the 
fear they created, I dont think Monzo has shown that she fell so far below what a 
reasonable person wouldve done that she failed with gross negligence. 
So I conclude that she isnt liable for the transaction and Monzo needs to put things 
right  by refunding her losses from this unauthorised transaction alongside interest 
to compensate her for the time shes been out of pocket. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Gs complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd must:
Pay Miss G the total of the unauthorised transaction less any amount recovered or 
already refunded  I understand this to be £802.40.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the unauthorised 
transaction to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman