DRN-3821191
The complaint
Ms S complains that J D Williams & Company Limited trading as Jacamo (JDW) acted 
unfairly by charging him for goods which he says he didnt receive and then subsequently 
closing his account.
What happened
Mr S had a credit facility with JDW which allowed him to purchase certain goods and 
services. In February 2022 he used the facility to purchase a gaming chair. He subsequently 
told JDW he hadnt received it.
JDW told Mr S it had evidence which showed that the chair had been delivered to him. It 
didnt refund the charge it had applied in respect of that purchase.  
In April 2022 JDW told Mr S it had reviewed his account and decided to close it. It asked Mr 
S to repay the outstanding balance of the account, which he subsequently did. Mr S then 
raised a complaint about JDWs decision to close his account. 
JDW responded in May 2022. It didnt uphold the complaint and said it had made a business 
decision to cease trading with Mr S. It refunded an overpayment Mr S had made. 
Mr S brought his complaint to this service  he said JDW hadnt acted fairly by applying the 
charge for a chair he hadnt received and that it had closed his account without his 
permission or giving him notice. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, they said that we didnt have the 
power to consider Mr Ss complaint about whether the chair had been delivered as it was a 
retail issue. They nonetheless thought that JDW had acted fairly in applying the charge for 
the goods based on what had happened, that JDW was allowed to close Mr Ss account, 
and that decision had been made legitimately and in line with Mr Ss agreement with it.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators interpretation of matters and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision on the case. Its been passed to me to decide what should happen. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ss complaint is about whether or not JDW is acting fairly in relation to an ongoing credit 
account regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Its a regulated agreement and one 
which this service has the power to consider a complaint about. That is, so far as the 
complaint arises from JDW carrying on an activity specified under our rules. 
Broadly speaking, our rules (known as DISP and found in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook) say that we can consider complaints about a business covered by our jurisdiction 
as long the complaint is about a regulated activity, or other specified. 
JDW has acted in two different capacities in dealing with Mr S. Firstly, its provided a 
regulated credit agreement, and we have the power to consider complaints about that. 
However, its also acted as the retailer of goods and services. Thats not something which 
our rules allow me to consider a complaint about. 
Whether or not Mr S was provided with the goods he ordered from the retailer is not a 
complaint about JDW carrying on a regulated activity, or an activity specified by our rules 
under DISP 2.3.1R. Its a retail issue. As a result, Im satisfied we have no power to consider 
that point of Mr Ss complaint. 
I can consider whether or not JDW has administered the account fairly insofar as; whether 
its acted fairly by asking Mr S to repay the lending it provided given what he says happened. 
I can also consider whether its acted fairly by ending Mr Ss agreement.
Mr Ss agreement sets out that JDW would provide lending for certain purchases and also 
the terms on which Mr S would be required to repay that lending. The agreement doesnt 
suggest that Mr S need not repay the lending in the event that he has issues with the service 
provided by the retailer, for example, in the case that he disputes that the goods were 
delivered. 
I dont think there was any obligation or expectation for JDW to cease pursuit of the 
outstanding lending taking into account the issues Mr S raised. Its also clear that theres a 
dispute between Mr S and JDW as to whether the goods were delivered. So, it wouldnt be 
fair or reasonable for me to conclude that JDW had acted unfairly by asking Mr S to repay 
the lending, or by declining to recredit that sum to Mr S in light of what hes said. 
Given the above, I find that JDW acted fairly by asking Mr S to repay the lending it provided 
him for the purchase of a gaming chair.
JDW told Mr S that it had taken the decision to end the agreement by email on 23 April 
2022. Im aware Mr S disputes receiving this, but Im nonetheless persuaded it was sent as 
Ive seen a copy of it. It referred to the Mr Ss recent claim that he hadnt received a gaming 
chair and reiterated that it believe evidence showed otherwise. It also quoted the terms of 
the agreement which it thought allowed it to make such a decision. JDW elaborated in its 
final response to Mr S that its decision was based on the high number of adjustments it had 
needed to make to the account. 
The agreement Mr S had with JDW allowed it to suspend or terminate the account with 
immediate effect for various reasons. Having carefully considered what JDW was able to do 
under the agreement insofar as closing the account, as well as its reasons for doing so, I 
dont think its acted unfairly in the circumstances. 
Mr S may wish to seek independent advice should he wish to pursue a complaint about 
whether JDW has acted fairly in relation to any retail activities.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman