DRN-3205941
The complaint
Mr B is complaining etika Finance UK Limited (etika) hasnt refunded an amount he paid for 
a training course he funded through a point of sale loan etika provided. He brings the claim 
under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75). 
What happened
In December 2018 Mr B enrolled on an IT training course. The course cost £6,390, he paid a 
deposit of £640 and he paid the balance through a point of sale loan provided by etika. 
In October 2019 the provider of the course went into administration so Mr B was unable to 
continue with it. etika arranged for another company to continue to provide the course. 
However it later wrote to him and said it didnt think that course provider was suitable and 
said it had arranged for a different company to complete the course. But Mr B wasnt willing 
to use that company and said hed enrolled on another course. And he said he wanted a full 
refund. etika said it wasnt able to cancel the finance agreement as it had arranged for the 
course to continue. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She acknowledged etika had arranged a replacement 
course provider, but she said it had taken four months to do so. And she didnt think it was 
unreasonable for Mr B to have arranged a replacement course himself due to the delay. So 
she thought etika should cancel the finance agreement and refund everything Mr B had paid 
for the course.
Etika agreed to end the finance agreement, but it said Mr B had had some benefit of the 
course and hed completed two of the six modules on the course. So it thought he should 
have to pay for a third of the cost. However, the investigator still thought Mr B should receive 
a full refund. She said the course content also included mock exams, exam fees, and a job 
guarantee. She accepted Mr B may have gained some knowledge from the modules he 
completed. But she thought, without completing the entire course, it would be difficult to 
quantify how much hed actually benefitted. And she thought that, without completing the 
exams, obtaining the final qualification and utilising the job guarantee Mr B wouldnt have 
much, if anything to show for the classes he may have attended. So she still thought etika 
should refund everything Mr B paid for the course.
etika still didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint for the same reasons as the investigator and Ill now 
explain why.
Mr B partly paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. S75 sets out that, in 
certain circumstances, as the finance provider, etika is jointly liable for any breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the course provider. Im satisfied those circumstances apply 
here. 
Theres no dispute the course provider didnt provide everything it was required to do so 
under the terms of the contract due to it going into administration. The Consumer Rights Act 
2015 (CRA) sets out the rights and remedies available to Mr B. And this says, where the 
service isnt provided, the consumer has the right to ask for a repeat performance  i.e. to 
have the service done again or insist its completed. It doesnt give an immediate right for a 
refund. So, while I appreciate Mr B wanted etika to provide an immediate refund, it wasnt 
required to do so.
However, the CRA further sets out when Mr B may become entitled to a price reduction of 
the cost of the service and it says he may be entitled to one if hes requested repeat 
performance and this wasnt done in a reasonable time. And I think this is the crux of this 
matter  did etika arrange a replacement course provider in a reasonable period of time?
etika did initially arrange another company to continue to provide the course but swiftly 
realised this wasnt suitable for the majority of its customers impacted by the course provider 
going into administration. I can see Mr B contacted etika a number of times in this time 
looking for updates and it said it was still looking into this but I cant see it gave Mr B any 
assurances around timeframes. In the meantime Mr B enrolled himself on a new course. 
Ultimately, it took etika around four months to arrange for a replacement course provider. I 
think this is longer than would be considered a reasonable time. So I think Mr B was 
entitled to request a price reduction.
The CRA sets out that, where appropriate, the price reduction can be up to the full price of 
the course. So the issue for me to decide is whether etika should refund everything Mr B has 
paid for it. In thinking about this, I need to think about how much use and benefit Mr B has 
had from the course.
etika has fairly highlighted that Mr B had completed two of the six modules. But I understand 
he hadnt completed any exams so hadnt received any qualifications from participating in 
the course. Further to this, I think a key feature of the course is the job guarantee upon 
successful completion of the course. Mr B has told us he entered into this course as a 
means to further his career. I think a key driving point of his decision to enrol on the course 
was the job guarantee. I accept Mr B will have gained some knowledge from completing the 
two modules, but Im not persuaded that he will gain any material benefit from attending 
these modules. Given this, I think the price reduction should be the full price of the course.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is that 
etika should do the following:  
1. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. Remove any adverse markers on Mr Bs credit file;
3. Refund the deposit of £640*; and
4. Refund the monthly payments Mr B has made towards the finance agreement*.
* It should add 8% simple interest per year on these payments from when Mr B paid them 
until he gets them back. If etika thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if 
appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require etika Finance UK Limited to compensate Mr B in line with my instructions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman