DRN-3016897
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs F complained about the repairs to their car carried out by their car insurer, 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company (LV) following a non-fault accident. 
What happened
  I set out the background to the complaint within my provisional decision and it is copied 
here;
Mr and Mrs Fs car was hit by a third-party vehicle while parked outside their home. The
driver of the vehicle didnt leave their insurance details and left the scene, so Mr and Mrs F
had to claim on their own insurance policy with LV for the repairs. Prior to being hit and
damaged Mr and Mrs F said their car was in good working order with a full service history
however after the incident and resulting repair works the parking sensors no longer work
correctly. Mr and Mrs F want the sensors to be repaired but LV say the damage wasnt
caused by the accident.
Mr and Mrs F bought their car brand new and it has a full service history. They said it had
been well looked after and was in good working order until it was hit by a third-party vehicle
outside their home. As a result of this Mr and Mrs Fs car was damaged and they claimed on
their insurance with LV. Mr and Mrs Fs car was taken to LVs authorised repairer who
carried out work to repair the damage.
However, after the repairs had been carried out the parking assistance sensors on Mr and
Mrs Fs car were not working correctly as they were alarming when there was nothing close
to them.
Mr F went back to the authorised repairer on five separate occasions to try to sort the
problem out. When the sensors were still alarming unnecessarily LV advised Mr F he would
need to take his car to a dealership to determine if the fault was accident or repair related.
Mr F took his car to at least two different dealerships on the instruction of LV. It was
suggested that the sensors and/or the brackets may have been fitted incorrectly. However
for a full assessment to be carried out the bumper would need to be removed.
LVs independent assessor carried out their own report and advised there was no evidence
to suggest the sensors are not working properly as a direct result of the accident or repair
works. LV stated that Mr F needs to get his own independent assessment carried out
to prove the sensor issues are caused by the accident or the repair works, as the information
provided by the car dealership didnt specifically say this. If there is evidence to suggest this,
then Mr F could be reimbursed the costs from LV.
Mr F says the sensors were working without any issues before the accident and has already
spent a lot of time going back and forth to various garages trying to get the problem fixed.
Mr F tells us he falls into the Covid-19 vulnerable category due to the ongoing pandemic.
Whenever he has had to take his car to a garage, he has had to use public transport, which
he said isnt ideal.
Our Investigator upheld Mr and Mrs Fs complaint and recommended LV arrange with Mr
and Mrs F a convenient time for their car to be picked up and the sensors repaired. This can
either be done by LV repairing them themselves, or LV agreeing to cover the cost of Mr and
Mrs F having them repaired by an approved garage.
LV disagreed with these findings as they said they only repaired damage to one side of the
vehicle and the damage to the sensors was minimal. As such LVs engineer said they
thought there was an underlying fault with the vehicle. LV requested the case be reviewed
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional findings I found the pre-repair diagnostic report and repair estimate report 
showed much of the car had works carried out on it. Notably significant electrical works were 
carried out on the steering column, driver and passenger side doors and the parking 
assistance. Both front and rear bumper had repairs carried out on them too, and this is 
where the sensors are situated.
I also considered the evidence of LVs independent assessor who couldnt find any faults
with the repair works or determine if the sensor issue is down to the accident.
LVs independent assessor said the parking sensors were replaced to ensure they were
fitted correctly, as advised by the dealership. However, they also stated that it could possibly
be a wire, software or control module problem. The assessor said that as the fault is
happening on the off side (driver side) and near side (passenger side), they didnt consider
this to be accident or repair related. However, the repair report shows all sensors had been
replaced initially, so all the sensors have been impacted by the repair works, even if some of
the old sensors were put back in some areas of the bodywork. The wiring still wouldve had
to be reconnected to ensure the sensors work.
Considering all the evidence available to me I think it is likely the sensors only started
malfunctioning after the accident and Mr and Mrs F have shown the sensors arent working
correctly. Therefore, I think it is LVs responsibility to make sure the sensors are working
properly. As such I require LV to arrange with Mr and Mrs F a convenient time for their
car to be picked up and the sensors repaired or replaced so they do work properly. This can
either be done by LV repairing them themselves, or LV agreeing to cover the cost of Mr and
Mrs F having them repaired by a dealership approved repairer.
I also think Mr and Mr F have been inconvenienced by having to make repeated trips to
various garages during the pandemic, especially as Mr F tells us he is categorised as
vulnerable and has had to use public transport after dropping his car off. Because of the
trouble and inconvenience caused by this I require LV to make a £150 distress and 
inconvenience payment to Mr and Mrs F.
LV did not respond to my provisional decision however Mr F did. He said he felt LVs 
engineer dismissed what he felt were significant safety issues due to the sensors not 
working correctly and alarming unnecessarily. He felt the engineer was dismissive when he 
said Mr F could always turn the sensors off. I appreciate Mr Fs comments and understand 
this must be frustrating for him. I have considered his comments further but I am not 
convinced it changes my decision.
Putting things right
To put things right I think LV need to repair or replace Mr and Mrs Fs cars sensors so they work correctly (or reimburse Mr and Mrs F for this if they have already paid for this outside of 
their insurance). I can also see Mr and Mrs F were inconvenienced by this situation and their 
repeated trips to various garages so I think an additional payment of £150.00 is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons I have outlined above it is my final decision that Mr and Mrs Fs
complaint is upheld.
I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to arrange with Mr and Mrs
F for their cars sensors to be repaired or replaced so they work correctly and I also require 
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs F an additional £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience they have been caused.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 October 2021.
 
Sarah Scott
Ombudsman