DRN-3221796
The complaint
The estate of Mr A complains about how Taylor Hartley Limited dealt with a surrender 
request for an Individual Savings Account (ISA) held by Mr A.
What happened
Mr A passed away in January 2020 and a representative of his estate spoke with Taylor 
Hartley to let them know and find out the requirements for obtaining the funds in the ISA. 
The funds in Mr As ISA were invested in a Growth Fund. This meant that Taylor Hartley had 
to contact the fund manager for instructions about the documentation required. The fund 
manager let Taylor Hartley know about their requirements  one of which was a Grant of 
Probate (GOP). 
There were delays with the GOP which was issued on 31 July 2020. This was passed to 
Taylor Hartley who in turn passed it on to the fund manager where it was received on 
17 August 2020. That day the fund manager instructed that Mr As units in the fund be sold 
and the funds were received by the estate in mid-September 2020.
The estate complained about the time it took for the funds to be released saying that 
because of the long time it took to finalise matters there had been a financial loss. Taylor 
Hartley looked into what happened, but the estate remained unhappy with the outcome of 
the investigation so brought the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the reasons why it took so long for the funds to be 
released. They explained that there were aspects of the complaint which we couldnt look 
into because of our rules. Whilst looking into things Taylor Hartley agreed to pay the estate 
£250 for the inconvenience of what happened. Overall our investigator, when considering 
the aspects of the complaint that we could look into, didnt think there were any substantive 
delays by Taylor Hartley from when they received the GOP and when it was actioned. The 
representative of the estate remained unhappy so the complaint has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The estate of Mr A has provided a lot of information about this complaint and its clear to me 
how strongly the representative feels about what happened. And this is very understandable 
as things did take some time which made the already emotional task of dealing with the 
estate more difficult. I want to assure the representative that Ive read and considered 
everything theyve provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive summarised what 
happened which reflects the informal nature of this service.  
Our investigator explained that what happened whilst obtaining the GOP wasnt something 
that we could look into. There were certainly delays with the GOP, but what I can look at is 
only what happened after the GOP was issued and sent to Taylor Hartley. 
I also think its important to say that I cant consider any type of payment for inconvenience 
to the representatives of the estate. Thats not to say that there might not have been 
problems that caused inconvenience. But theres a distinction between the estate itself as 
the eligible complainant, and the representative who brings the complaint on behalf of the 
estate. What I can consider is any actual financial loss to the estate.  
The GOP was issued on 31 July 2020 and sent to Taylor Hartley who forwarded it onto the 
fund manager where it was received on 17 August 2020. Considering the circumstances at 
the time, and the amount of paperwork required to be sent to the fund manager, I dont think 
there were any substantive delays by Taylor Hartley in passing on the GOP. Even if there 
were delays, which at most might have been a few days, the fund at the time was increasing 
in value so there wouldnt have been a financial loss.
When dealing with the estate Taylor Hartley gave some incorrect information. They led the 
representative of the estate to believe the value of the ISA would be what it was on the day 
Mr A passed away, rather than the value on the day the units in the fund were sold.  
This information was obviously upsetting for the representative as it led them to believe the 
value of what the estate would receive was higher than it actually was. I can understand the 
upset caused, however there is no actual financial loss here; its more a loss of expectation. 
The value the estate would receive from the ISA was always going to be the amount on the 
day the units in the fund were sold. And since I can only consider any financial loss to the 
estate, and not any emotional distress, this isnt something I will be making an award for.  
In recent correspondence the representative said they understand we can only look at what 
happened after Taylor Hartley received the GOP. However they remain unhappy that the 
fund lost value while things were being sorted out. Theyve said that if the fund manager had 
been made aware of the estate soon after they first contacted Taylor Hartley then the full 
potential couldve been realised. 
I understand there were delays with the GOP, but I can see that Taylor Hartley did get in 
touch with the fund manager not too long after they were notified about Mr As passing. The 
fund manager told Taylor Hartley that the value of the fund could change, and the final figure 
would be calculated when the units in the fund are sold. And the units could only be sold 
once the fund manager had received all of the necessary paperwork, which included the 
GOP. 
So the estate was never going to receive the value of the fund on the day that Mr A passed 
away. And since I can only look at what happened once the GOP was issued and passed to 
Taylor Hartley as Ive explained above, Im satisfied there was no financial loss. 
Having considered everything that happened, including the rules about what I am allowed to 
look at, I think Taylor Hartley treated the estate fairly and reasonably. Thats not to say the 
representative of the estate wasnt put to some trouble overall, as I think they were, but this 
isnt something I can consider.
Taylor Hartley has agreed an offer of £250 to settle this complaint. The estate should contact 
Taylor Hartley directly if they now wish to accept this. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I 
dont think Taylor Hartley Limited need to do anything to settle the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 February 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman