DRN-4188437
The complaint
Mr M complains about how National Savings and Investments (NS&I) dealt with a transfer 
request.
What happened
Mr M says he asked NS&I to transfer money from his account and asked it to close his 
account. He says the process was delayed and that NS&I required forms to be sent to him 
and returned via the postal service. Mr M questions that requirement as he lived abroad and 
experienced problems with the post. He would like significant compensation for what took 
place.
NS&I accepts it could have offered an indemnity option earlier than it did and accepts it paid 
the money in circumstances where it said it couldnt do so. Its offered £50 compensation 
and says it followed the account agreement conditions by requesting written instructions.
Mr M brought his complaint to us, and our investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended NS&I increase its compensation offer to £100. The investigator thought NS&I 
had followed its agreement conditions but accepted it then paid the money without the form.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and questions if there was a contractual agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint but also agree 
with the investigators compensation recommendation. I appreciate Mr M will be 
disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels about what took place.
I hope it will assist Mr M if I explain our role here. We are not NS&Is regulator and so its not 
our role to direct it about for example the way in which it accepts instructions or about its 
requirements for written instructions. I say that as I appreciate that Mr M may have 
difficulties receiving postal mail and questions NS&Is requirements.
Im satisfied that Mr M would have agreed to the account terms and conditions when the 
account was first opened and agreed to their amendments over time. Those terms and 
conditions say that the account can be managed by post only. So, I dont think NS&I initially 
acted unfairly by requiring Mr M to send it written instructions or by sending him the form. I 
cant fairly hold NS&I responsible for any delays or problems with the mail.
There is no dispute here that NS&I didnt offer Mr M the alternative of providing it with an 
indemnity. I accept that caused some delay and am sure Mr M was caused frustration due to 
that mistake. I can see that NS&I fairly accepts that mistake and has offered what I think is a 
fair and reasonable compensation offer of £50 for that mistake.
I can see that NS&I then paid the money to Mr Ms nominated account despite not receiving 
the required form. I again appreciate Mr Ms frustration in those circumstances. The 
investigator has recommended NS&I pay a further £50 compensation which I think is fair and 
reasonable. I dont think that specific mistake resulted in any financial loss or justifies more 
than that amount. I dont think it clear why Mr M appears to be reluctant to confirm receipt of 
the money and I think it likely the money has now been paid.
Overall, I accept there have been mistakes here but those mistakes do not justify the level of 
compensation Mr M would like. I make clear to Mr M I have listened to all of the available 
telephone calls and as I have already made clear, I appreciate his frustration with the 
process he was asked to follow. I find this now brings and end to what we in trying to resolve 
this dispute can do.
Putting things right
I intend to order NS&I to pay Mr M £100 compensation. His acceptance of that award would 
be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order National Savings and 
Investments to pay Mr M £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman