DRN-4372965
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the service they received from Aviva Insurance Limited and 
their decision to decline their claim.
Mr and Mrs C did deal with agents of Aviva but Ill only refer to Aviva in my decision as they 
are ultimately responsible for the complaint. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C were on holiday in a relatively remote location in Spain. They travelled to their 
destination by car and were intending to stay the maximum duration they could remain in the 
EU, which is 90 days. They planned to return via car at the end of their holiday.
On 7 November 2022 Mr C experienced a black out whilst driving which caused the car to 
swerve into the oncoming carriageway. There was no accident, but the following day Mr C 
attended a local urgent care clinic which was located approximately half an hours drive 
away. He says that he was given a diagnosis of possible epilepsy and advised to visit his 
neurologist on his return home. Given what had happened Mr C didnt want to drive back to 
the UK until hed been further assessed.
On 9 November Mr C contacted Aviva to explain the situation and to seek assistance. He 
explained his wife had no experience of driving abroad and told Aviva that they needed to 
leave the EU before the 29 November due to the time limit.
There were issues with getting information from the urgent care centre and with sorting out a 
follow up assessment of Mr Cs condition to ensure he was fit to fly. In the end no further 
medical appointment took place. Mr C booked his own bus, accommodation and flights to 
ensure he was home by 29 November. He provided a medical report to Aviva following his 
return home which confirmed his attendance at the urgent care centre. He also said hed 
seen his GP who advised him not to drive until hed seen the neurologist. Mr C was later 
diagnosed with having had a fainting episode after a follow up with a specialist in the UK.
Mr and Mrs C complained about the service they received. Aviva offered £400 for failings in 
the customer service offered but maintained their decision in relation to the claim. Aviva said 
there was not enough medical evidence to support Mr C returning home early. Unhappy, Mr 
and Mrs C referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She thought that Aviva had acted fairly 
based on the medical evidence and noted that Mr C chose not to attend a pre-arranged 
medical review. She was also satisfied that there was no cover under the policy for the
repatriation of Mr Cs vehicle.
Mr C didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr C said there was a 
delay of 9 days between him agreeing to have a doctor visit him and the claim being 
reported. He also pointed out that no one came back to him for a further five days. Mr C said 
it must have been obvious that hed need to fly home which was why Aviva were looking into 
a fit to fly certificate. He referred to correspondence from Aviva which confirmed that theyd 
not adequately explained that the follow up appointment would try and confirm the diagnosis.
Mr C said that had Aviva arranged a follow up he may have been able to drive home and 
avoid the other expenses hes incurred. Their original plan was to leave their 
accommodation on 24 November with a view to leaving the EU, via France, on the morning 
of the 29 November.
In September 2023 I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy covers emergency medical treatment and associated expenses. Those 
expenses include, but are not limited to, additional travel costs if the insured party 
cant use their return ticket and bringing the insured person home if it is medically 
necessary.
The policy also covers unrecoverable unused costs for coming home early due to 
illness. And it covers additional travel and accommodation costs to allow the insured 
person to come home early if they cant use their return ticket.
Customer service
I dont think Mr and Mrs C received an adequate level of customer service. Aviva has 
acknowledged this in their final response letter. I wont comment on all of the points 
that Mr C has raised but, in my view, there were a number of failings which include 
the following.
Mr C made it clear from the outset that he would be subject to the 90-day limit in the 
EU. This doesnt seem to have been something that Aviva engaged with or 
considered when thinking about his repatriation plans. Its clear that this was 
something which was uppermost in Mr Cs mind when trying to make arrangements 
to return home. Aviva repeatedly misunderstood Mr Cs point about this, believing 
him to be returning to the UK on this date. 
Mr C gave Aviva the details of the urgent care centre he visited on the 9 November. 
Aviva couldnt identify it. The reasons for this are unclear as it I think it was 
identifiable from the information he provided on the 9 November. A period of around 
five days was lost because of this.
I cant see that Mr C was advised about needing a fit to fly until 18 November. He 
made Aviva aware on that date that hed booked a flight on 26 November in order to 
ensure he was home before the 90-day limit. Between the 18 and 23 November 
Aviva were trying to arrange a medical appointment but no one updated Mr C. They 
received a response on 22 November saying that it was best for Mr C to attend in 
person. Mr C wasnt updated until 23 November (three days before his flight) that 
they were looking to get him an appointment on 24 November at an Emergency 
Room. Mr C was worried about waiting for a long time and the presence of an 
interpreter. He also explained he was due to start his journey home on 25 November 
as he planned to stay overnight in a hotel before continuing to the airport. His car 
repatriation had also been brought forward to the 24 November, from the 25 
November.Mr C says he barely slept that night and no one had explained why a doctor couldnt 
visit him, which had been the original plan. I can see that Aviva looked into this but 
couldnt locate a doctor who was able to visit the area he was in. Aviva shouldve 
explained this to Mr C. Mr C says he decided to cancel the appointment as his car 
was due for collection.
There was no actual appointment booked. Avivas notes say that there wasnt a 
specific appointment available and that Mr C wouldve had to go to the emergency 
room door after 1pm where he would be seen. I note that the medical provider 
identified was around an hours drive away from where Mr C planned to stay the 
night before his flight and in the opposite direction to the airport. From the notes that 
Ive seen no taxi had been booked or looked into when Mr C was contacted on the 
evening of the 23 or on 24 November.
In my view Aviva ought to have identified the clinic Mr C was treated in on 9 
November. They had enough information to do so and were aware of Mr Cs need to 
leave the EU before the 90-day time limit expired. They were also aware of the flight 
which was booked from at least the 18 November. Bearing in mind that the flight was 
booked for the 26 November, and Aviva was aware of this, I dont think the medical 
appointment was sorted out with sufficient urgency.
This left Mr C in a position where he was stressed and worried about trying to get to 
the medical appointment, where it would take place and that he may have to wait for 
a long time. I think his concerns are supported by what I can see in the notes. I dont 
think its fair to say that Mr C chose simply not to attend because he wanted to enjoy 
the last day of his holiday. He was juggling a number of things, on his own, in an area 
that was difficult to access without a car and with sporadic contact from Aviva. Hes 
also explained he was trying to calm himself before the flight home, due to the stress 
he felt under.
I accept that Aviva wanted a follow up appointment to take place and ensure Mr C 
was fit to fly. Thats what Id expect in the absence of a medical report. But I dont 
think this was attempted soon enough - the initial delays in identifying the clinic and 
misunderstanding about Mr Cs return date also meant that Aviva werent working to 
the right timescales. Ive taken this into account when weighing up the available 
medical evidence. And, in any event, I dont think Aviva has been prejudiced by the 
absence of the fit to fly report when assessing the claim for the reasons Ill go onto 
explain.
Was Mr Cs claim unreasonably rejected?
Mr Cs medical expenses were covered under the reciprocal health agreement. Mr C 
claimed for:
A pre-booked and unused crossing on the channel tunnel
Additional costs for two flights from Spain to the UK (booked on 10 November 
2022)
One nights additional total accommodation prior to the return flight
Bus tickets to the airport (booked on 14 November)
Repatriation of the car from Spain to the UKRepatriation of belongings and bicycles to the UK.
I dont think Aviva has reasonably rejected Mr Cs claim for the reasons Ill go onto 
explain.
The available medical evidence, which Aviva was sent in December 2022, confirms 
that Mr C was seen at the urgent care centre for dizziness. The report confirms he 
was seen as an emergency on 8 November and says:
The patient mentions that yesterday he had an absent episode whilst he was 
driving his vehicle which lasted for seconds Normal neurological 
examination, I give recommendations that he should go to Neurology ward if 
this happens again. Currently he does not have any doctor given that he is on 
holiday.
The report doesnt specifically mention epilepsy, but Mr C has given consistent 
testimony that this is what the doctor told him and that he was referred to a 
neurologist. Thats exactly what Mr C did on his return to the UK. So, on balance, Im 
persuaded it is most likely Mr C was told that it could have been an epileptic incident. 
He immediately reported this to Aviva when he got in touch with them to first report 
the claim and has been consistent in his testimony on this point.
It's well established in the UK that a person should tell the DVLA if theyve had an 
epileptic seizure. The guidance says that if youve had your first ever seizure whilst 
awake and lost consciousness your licence will be taken away. Mr C was planning to 
drive back to the UK, via France, over the course of approximately four or five days. 
So, I think he was reasonably concerned about the impact of the medical incident on 
his ability to drive, particularly as hed lost consciousness whilst driving on 7 
November. I can also understand his concerns that if there was a further incident, 
which caused an accident, then he could be in difficulty as hed recently had a 
suspected seizure. Mr C also highlighted to Aviva at an early stage that his wife 
hadnt driven abroad before and was of what he described as a nervous disposition.
I think Aviva could have taken a much more pragmatic view of the circumstances of 
Mr Cs claim. I think its reasonable to conclude that he couldnt be expected to return 
to the UK by car in the specific circumstances of this case. Whilst both Aviva and Mr 
C were struggling to get medical information from the urgent care clinic I think it 
would have been reasonable for Aviva to consider the overall circumstances of the 
case, particularly given that theyd been in close contact with Mr C throughout. I also 
bear in mind that they were subsequently provided with medical evidence that 
supported Mr Cs account of what happened.
Ive also thought about whether Aviva was prejudiced by the absence of the fit to fly 
report. I dont think they were. Following his return home Mr C provided the medical 
report Ive referred to above, and based on the available evidence, I think it is unlikely 
that hed have been fully assessed by a neurological specialist at a walk in 
appointment in an emergency room. Mr C has seen his GP and provided evidence 
he saw a neurologist on his return. So, I think hes provided adequate medical 
evidence in support of his claim in addition to persuasive testimony about what 
happened.
Im also not persuaded by Avivas arguments about Mr C not needing to cut short his 
trip. I dont think this reflects the reality of the situation Mr C was in. He was originally 
due to leave his accommodation on the 24 November and spend a few days 
travelling back through Spain and France to ensure he didnt breach the 90-day limit. As he couldnt drive, he booked a flight for the 26 November, which was two days 
after hed originally planned to start his journey home.
I dont think its fair and reasonable, in the circumstances of this case, to conclude Mr 
Cs holiday was cut short for reasons that werent medically necessary. Mr C had to 
take a different mode of transport home because he couldnt drive. That was 
inevitably quicker and he also had to factor in the time limit Ive mentioned. And, in 
staying abroad Mr C also hasnt claimed for unused accommodation expenses, 
which he may have been entitled to if hed returned earlier. So, overall, I think he 
acted reasonably.
Taking all of the above into account I think Aviva needs to settle Mr Cs claim. So, Ill 
go on to consider what costs I think its reasonable for Aviva to pay.
What costs should Aviva pay?
The policy covers additional and unused travel and accommodation expenses. I think 
the expenses for the unused crossing, airline tickets for Mr and Mrs C, 
accommodation for the night before the flight and Mr Cs bus ticket are all reasonable 
expenses incurred because Mr C wasnt well and couldnt drive home. I think that Mr 
C has claimed for modest costs and Im satisfied they are reasonable costs he 
incurred as a result of his illness.
Mrs C had to return from Spain earlier, on 17 November due to her fathers ill health. 
Im sorry to see that hes since passed away. Unfortunately, this left Mr C on his own 
to return home and had a further impact on their travel plans.
I can see that Mr and Mrs C booked Mrs Cs flight for the 26 November but that due 
to her fathers illness she returned home earlier than that. Its unclear whether Aviva 
has already considered those costs under a separate claim, or not. But, if those costs 
havent been settled under a separate claim, I think its reasonable for Aviva to cover 
the costs of the return flights. They were booked on the 10 November, the day after 
the claim was notified.
Based on the available evidence I dont think Mr and Mrs C expected that Mrs C 
would need to return earlier than Mr C at that point in time. By the time that the bus 
tickets were booked on the 14 November it appears Mrs C was planning to travel 
home on the 17 November as Mr C referred to this in the claim form. So, I dont think 
this is something that should be covered as part of this claim as I dont think its an 
expense that arises directly from Mr Cs illness. Mrs C may wish to pursue a separate 
claim if she has other out of pocket expenses relating to her claim due to her fathers 
illness.
I also think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to cover the cost of Mr and Mrs Cs 
belongings and car being repatriated. I bear in mind that Mr and Mrs C had travelled 
by car and were staying for three months. They werent aware theyd have to fly 
home and, as Im satisfied that these costs were ultimately related to Mr Cs illness, I 
think they can reasonably be considered additional travel expenses which are 
typically covered when a person has to be repatriated. I dont think Mr or Mrs C could 
have reasonably travelled alone with their collective belongings, including cycles, on 
a flight home.
Distress and inconvenience
Im persuaded that Mr and Mrs C were caused distress and inconvenience by the overall experience they had  this took place at a time where Mr C was worried about 
his health and he was having to make lots of arrangements to get home.
Aviva has made an offer of £400 compensation and accepts there were failings in the 
overall customer service Mr and Mrs C experience. I think that fairly reflects the 
impact of the worry and upset caused by poor communication and the other failings 
Ive outlined above.
Putting things right
Aviva needs to put things right by settling the cost of Mr and Mrs Cs unused crossing 
on the channel tunnel, their additional flights home, Mr Cs bus ticket, the cost of the 
overnight accommodation Mr C booked before his flight and the cost of returning the 
belongings and car home. They should pay 8% simple interest per annum on these 
expenses from the date the claim was declined until the date of settlement.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr and Mrs C a tax certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customers if appropriate.
Aviva should also pay Mr and Mrs C £400 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the poor service they received.
Mr and Mrs C accepted my provisional decision. Aviva responded to say that they agreed 
with my findings, except for the cost of the Eurotunnel. They said that this would place Mr 
and Mrs C in a position of betterment as hed have travelled home at no expense. So, they 
didnt think they should pay this cost. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Aviva should cover the cost of the Eurotunnel crossing in the circumstances of this 
case. 
As I outlined in my provisional decision the policy covers unrecoverable unused costs and 
additional expenses. Aviva didnt dispute this. Mr C incurred additional costs to return home 
via plane. And, as a result he couldnt use his Eurotunnel crossing. 
I dont think this places Mr C in a position of betterment. I havent found Avivas arguments 
on this point persuasive. I think this was an unused and unrecoverable cost associated with 
his illness. So, I think Aviva should settle this part of the claim as well as it is fair and 
reasonable to do so. 
Putting things right
Aviva needs to put things right by settling the cost of Mr and Mrs Cs unused crossing on the 
channel tunnel, their additional flights home, Mr Cs bus ticket, the cost of the overnight 
accommodation Mr C booked before his flight and the cost of returning the belongings and 
car home. They should pay 8% simple interest per annum on these expenses from the date 
the claim was declined until the date of settlement.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much theyve taken off. They should also give 
Mr and Mrs C a tax certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customers if appropriate.
Aviva should also pay Mr and Mrs C £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the poor service they received.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint about Aviva Insurance Limited and direct them to 
put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman