DRN-3430903
The complaint
Miss C says Shelby Finance Ltd (trading as Dot Dot Loans) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Shelby provided to Miss C between December 
2019 and October 2021. Miss Cs lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount Instalments Highest 
Repayment
1 13/12/2019 27/03/2020 £200 3 £111.40
2 21/07/2020 Unknown £200 6 £62.17
3 12/03/2021 28/09/2021 £250 6 £81.44
4 13/10/2021 28/01/2022 £400 6 £129.75
From what I can see, loan three was closed but I cant say when. I understand that a 
balance remains outstanding for loan four. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. Miss C 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Shelby needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Shelby should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Shelby was required to establish 
whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
Shelby asked Miss C for information about her income and outgoings and it carried our 
credit checks for each loan. Miss C said her monthly income ranged between £1,601 and 
£1,870. She said her monthly outgoings ranged between £500 and £975. Shelby increased 
her outgoings for all her loans. I cant see that Shelbys credit checks found anything 
untoward that should have prompted further checks. 
So I think Shelbys affordability checks were sufficient and proportionate for Miss Cs loans. 
From them, I think it reasonably thought Miss C had sufficient disposable income to 
sustainably repay her loans. And I think the checks didnt find warning signs of financial 
difficulties that should have prompted further checks. 
Miss C said she had other loans, with defaults, from other lenders at the time and 
outstanding credit. I can see from Shelbys credit checks for her loans that Miss C had other 
credit commitments, but I dont think this is unusual or that it should have stopped Shelby 
from lending to her. 
For loans one to three, no short -term loans were shown to be opened within the previous six 
months. And for loan four, only one loan had been taken in the previous six months. For 
loans one and two, the checks found defaults, but these were over 12 months old. For loans 
three and four, one default was identified within the past 12 months. Again, I think this wasnt 
unusual or significant or should have stopped Shelby lending to Miss C. 
I accept that Miss Cs actual circumstances werent reflected either in the information she 
provided, or the other information Shelby obtained. And Miss Cs actual financial position 
might well have been apparent if further information  such as bank statements  had been 
obtained. 
But Shelby could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Miss C, I dont think it had 
reached the stage where there was a greater risk of the loans being unsustainable for her. In 
these circumstances, I dont think Shelby needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where I can safely say that a lender has done 
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Shelby carried out reasonable checks even 
though it looks like the information it was provided wasnt reflective of Miss Cs actual 
financial position. Shelby relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayments involved, together with Miss Cs declared income and Miss C only taking four 
loans, I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Cs 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman