DRN-4039615
The complaint
Mrs M complains that she was given unsuitable advice by an agent of Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life) to transfer the benefits from her defined 
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension.
Mrs M is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mrs M.
What happened
Mrs M had accrued deferred benefits in a DB scheme in respect of a period of employment
from 1975 to 1988.
In October 1989 a personal profile document was completed with Sun Life. The purpose of
the form was to record details about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time. The information that
was completed was limited. It noted that she was 33, in good health, had one child
and was not working at that time. But there was no information recorded about her assets,
liabilities or other pension arrangements.
The report included a section outlining what products or areas were being considered. This
indicated that her retirement provision was the only thing under consideration. In relation to
this, the Sun Life representatives recommendations / actions were noted, and this said
Execution only transfer from company pension scheme (frozen) to personal pension. Single
premium transfer £10,942.46. It was also noted on this page that an attitude to risk
assessment wasnt required in respect of the application. Mrs M signed this form, on the
page on which these notes were recorded, on 16 October 1989. The Sun Life representative
signed the form as well. Under their signature they wrote The application is for my wife.
An application form for a Sun Life personal pension was also completed, signed and dated
on the same day. This again noted that the transfer value of Mrs Ms benefits and also said
that her selected retirement age under the personal pension was age 50.
Sun Lifes records indicate the personal pension commenced in the same month as the
application was made. And its notes indicate Mrs M transferred her pension to a different
provider around May 1994.
Mrs M complained to Sun Life in 2021, saying that she believed the advice shed been given
to transfer was unsuitable. This is because she believed shed have been better off in
retirement had she retained the guaranteed benefits the DB scheme wouldve provided. 
Sun Life didnt uphold the complaint. So, Mrs M referred it to our service. 
I issued a decision in February 2023, saying I was satisfied that our service could consider 
this complaint  as Sun Life had questionned whether we were able to do so under our rules. 
With that decided, I went on to consider the merits of the complaint.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this month explaining that I didnt intend to uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time the
advice was given, in 1989. Mr M has acknowledged that he was an authorised
representative of Sun Life at the time of the advice. And, based on that relationship, I think
its likely the rules set by the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory Organisation
(LAUTRO) applied here - as these rules covered advisers tied to, or appointed
representatives of, product providers who could only sell that providers products.
The available information and evidence are limited. I dont think that is surprising, given how
long ago the transfer took place. But where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or
contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is
more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider
surrounding circumstances.
Mrs Ms complaint is that she was provided unsuitable advice by Sun Life. But the personal
profile document, one of the few available pieces of evidence, indicates that the transfer was
carried out on an execution only basis, rather than an advised one. Execution only being
where the business has not provided advice but carried out the transfer on the instruction of
the applicant. So, what I first need to think about is whether advice was provided here.
None of the other available evidence from the time of the sale indicates advice was given.
The application form doesnt refer to advice. The acknowledgment from the trustees of the
DB scheme confirming the transfer values dont make mention of this either. And the internal
audit documents, while referring to an agent, dont reference advice. And neither party have
been able to provide a copy of anything that looks like a recommendation letter.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr M acted as the agent of Sun Life in this transaction.
The references to the agent in the available documents support this. And Mr M has
acknowledged that he likely did so. And while he has no recollection of the events  which
isnt in my view unreasonable given the significant time that has passed  he said he can
only imagine that the transfer did take place on an execution only basis. Mrs M has also said
she has little recollection of the events. Which, while again in my view is entirely reasonable,
does mean that there is little further to dispute the basis on which the transfer was carried
out.
The declaration Mr M signed, as agent, on the personal profile form does say I have
recommended the above plan / plans which in my opinion is that most appropriate to the
clients current requirements Which I acknowledge suggests advice mightve been given.
But the above plan / plans to which reference was made was the execution only transfer.
Taking everything into account, on balance of probabilities, I think it appears more likely than
not that the transfer was carried out on a non-advised, execution only basis. The evidence
that is available supports this. And Mr and Mrs M havent disputed it. I dont doubt that
Mr and Mrs M mightve discussed the merits of a transfer privately. But I dont think I can
reasonably conclude that this was conducted as an advised sale, or that Sun Life provided
advice.
Mr and Mrs M have said they believe this wouldve been irregular and should not have been
allowed by Sun Life. But I dont think the transfer being allowed to proceed on an execution
only basis means an error has been made. As Ive said the regulations in place at the time
were different to those in place now. There was no requirement at the time for Mrs M to
receive advice and execution only sales were permitted.When processing the transfer on an execution only basis, Sun Life would still be expected to
provide Mrs M with sufficient information so that she understood the basis of the transfer and
was in a position to make an informed decision. Again, though there is limited information
available from the time.
The forms that were completed indicate that Mrs M was made aware of the cash equivalent
transfer value of her DB scheme benefits. And the application form makes a reference to the
guaranteed minimum pension (GMP) element of her DB scheme benefits being £449 per
annum. But beyond that there isnt any further information about the value of her DB scheme
benefits. I also havent seen any evidence of illustrations being provided to Mrs M showing
what she might expect to receive as an annual pension from the Sun Life personal pension,
so that she could compare this with what was being given up. Nor have I seen information
that mightve been shared about what growth rates mightve been considered achievable.
I appreciate that due to the passage of time Sun Life no longer holds a great deal of
information. And I wouldnt necessarily expect it to, particularly bearing in mind its records
indicate Mrs M transferred her pension away from Sun Life in 1994. But what it does mean is
that, based on the information that is currently available, I dont have enough evidence to
say that Sun Life provided Mrs M with all of the information it ought to have, when the
transfer of her benefits was processed.
An important fact here though, which I cant ignore, is that Mr M acted as the agent of 
Sun Life. Mr and Mrs M have said this is irrelevant. But I dont agree as I think this meant 
Mr M had greater influence over the transaction than in a normal adviser client relationship. 
And as the transfer was completed on an execution only basis, it appears on balance that he 
and Mrs M discussed, and proposed the transfer, having already agreed that they felt it was 
what Mrs M wanted to do. Because of this, I dont think any failure to share the required
information by Sun Life, or more specifically its agent, if it did happen, is likely to have made
a difference here. Because even with additional information having been made available, I
think it is highly unlikely that Mrs M wouldve gone against the prior discussion she is likely to
have had with Mr M, before proposing the transfer.
Taking everything into account, while the limited information means I cant be certain that
Sun Life did everything required of it when processing the transfer, in the circumstances I
think its more likely than not that Mrs M would always have gone ahead anyway. And as a
result, would always have been in the same position  having transferred away from the DB 
scheme. So, I dont intend to require Sun Life to take any action.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Sun Life didnt provide any additional comments for me to consider.
Mrs M said that she and Mr M couldnt really add anything further other than saying, for 
context, they believed the sale had taken place at a point in the year where advisers were 
taking part in a sales incentive, which would explain why Mr M had processed this as an 
execution only sale. And they still believed Sun Life shouldnt have allowed the sale to 
proceed on an execution only basis.
Mrs Ms representatives added that they wanted me to confirm if Id considered the Pension 
Review guidance, issued by the then regulator in 1994. Specifically, what it said about where 
the evidence indicated the sale was on an execution only basis and that a business should 
seek to corroborate that.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend to depart from my provisional decision.
Our services investigation, and my decision, isnt required to mirror the Pension Review. My 
role is to look at all of the available information and evidence, having regard for the 
applicable rules, regulations and requirements, at the time of sale, and to decide what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable. And where information or evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. And so, 
while Ive taken on board Mrs Ms representatives comments about what the review  
implemented several years after the sale took place - said, based on the evidence that is 
available, for the reasons Ive already explained above, Im satisfied on balance that this 
transfer was likely carried out on an execution only basis, with Sun Life not providing advice.
I appreciate Mr M sharing his recollection of why he believes he mightve transacted this on 
an execution only basis for Mrs M. But as I explained in my provisional findings, businesses 
were not prohibited from carrying out business on an execution only basis. So, while I 
appreciate Mrs and Mr M dont agree, I dont think Sun Life has made an error by accepting 
this application on an execution only basis.
So, based on the evidence available about what happened, for the reasons Ive previously 
explained, I think its more likely than not that Mrs M would always have gone ahead with the 
transfer. So, I dont require Sun Life to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman