DRN-3361844
The complaint
Mr S complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc unfairly charged him for excess mileage 
on his car finance agreement due to the collection being delayed because of Covid-19.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
Mr S was charged £1,291,26 for excess mileage which was subsequently reduced by £50. 
He had exceeded the agreed mileage by some 21,000 miles. The agreement ended on 18 
April 2020 and the car was collected in mid May 2020.
On 9 May he wrote to Mitsubishi to say that he had been charged lease rental payments for 
the period beyond 17 April 2020 when his agreement came to an end. He went on to say 
that he had not used the car since the agreement had ended and so he didnt think he 
should pay for the period after 17 April while he was waiting for the car to be collected. 
Hitachi agreed and removed the charge. If that was correct then none of the excess mileage 
was incurred after the end of the agreement. 
He also said that the car was kept at a relatives house and has sought storage charges, but 
he has not provided any evidence of payment being made.
Mr S told this service that he drove the car between 200 and 250 miles a week. He 
explained that he needed to us the car as a replacement had been delayed and he needed 
the car for work and to care for a sick relative.
Whichever version of events is correct, all or the vast majority of the excess mileage 
occurred prior to the end of the contract and any delay there may have been had little or no 
bearing on the mileage charge. In any event Mr S continued to have use of the car and it is 
not unreasonable for him to make some payment for that use. I have noted that Mr S saved 
on lease costs. If the car had been collected on time he would have had to acquire another 
and incur finance charges.
Mr S has also complained about delays by Hitachi in handling his complaint. It has reduced 
the charge by £50 and I think that is more than reasonable. I do not consider it fair that 
Hitachi pay Mr S for storage charges which he has been unable to evidence. 
Hitachi has recognised that Mr S will find it difficult to pay the sum due and if he contacts it a 
payment plan may be available depending on the details of his circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman