DRN-1694218
The complaint
Mr N complains about how Assurant General Insurance Limited dealt with his mobile phone 
insurance claim. My references to Assurant include its agents.
What happened
Mr N has insurance for his mobile phone through his bank account. Assurant is the insurer. 
On 9 December 2019 Mr N claimed for a lost mobile phone. Assurant accepted the claim 
and sent a replacement phone to Mr N on 13 December 2019.
On 21 December 2019 Assurant sent a second replacement phone to Mr N by mistake. 
Assurant realised its mistake and on 6 January 2020 it wrote to Mr N saying the second 
phone had been sent in error and he needed to return the phone to it.
Mr N says he got the letter on 12 January. He responded to Assurant saying its letter came 
as huge shock and surprise and caused him great stress and depression as the letter was 
signed by its fraud team. He also told Assurant he thought the second phone was a 
Christmas compensation bonus and hed given the phone to his mother who had gone 
abroad.
Assurant told Mr N he could either return the second phone or pay £802.41, the cost of the 
phone, to buy the phone. Mr N offered half that amount and he said he later offered 70% of 
that amount to keep the second phone, which Assurant refused. 
Our investigator thought Assurant had acted fairly.
Mr N disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ns made detailed comments which Ive considered in making my decision. Im not going 
to respond to all those comments. Ill focus on the main points as to why Ive made my 
decision. Mr N told our investigator that he had more information he would give to an 
ombudsman. Our investigator clarified that Mr N would need to send any further information 
to him for the ombudsman to consider. We havent received further information from Mr N.
I must decide whether Assurant acted fairly and reasonably, and I think it did. I dont uphold 
the complaint. Ill explain why.
Assurant accepts it made a mistake in sending Mr N the second phone and has apologised 
to him. Even though it made a mistake I think it can still fairly ask Mr N to return the phone or 
require him to pay the cost of the phone.
The policy is clear that when Assurant accepts a claim for a lost phone it will provide a 
replacement phone to settle the claim and it sent Mr N a replacement. When Mr N received 
the second replacement phone it should have been clear to him that Assurant had sent that 
phone by mistake.
Mr N says he thought the second phone was a goodwill gift or a Christmas consumer bonus 
from Assurant. But Assurant hadnt sent any information with the phone for him to 
reasonably believe that. I dont think Mr N could reasonably believe the second phone was a 
gift.
I understand Mr Ns mentioned it wasnt clear on delivery that the second phone came from 
Assurant. But the phone was the same make and model as the phone hed claimed for and 
sent just a week after the first replacement. So I think it would haven reasonable for him to 
realise it was likely Assurant had sent the second phone by mistake and contact Assurant to 
see what he needed to do with the phone.
Mr N says Assurant told him it was closed over Christmas so if hed contacted it no one 
would have been there. But Ive no evidence that he tried and failed to contact Assurant. 
Even if he did and couldnt get through, he still couldnt reasonably believe the phone was a 
gift for him to give or sell to some else or keep without paying for it.
Mr N says Assurant delayed in identifying its mistake and then telling him. But I dont think 
there were unreasonable delays by Assurant. And the important point is Mr N couldnt 
reasonably believe the phone was a gift to him to do as he wished with the phone.
Assurant says it bought the refurbished phone it sent to Mr N for £802.41 in December 2019. 
The policy is clear Assurant can provide a refurbished phone to settle a claim. Im satisfied 
from the evidence about cost Assurant sent that its fair to say Mr N has to pay £802.41 if he 
wants to keep the phone. He, or the person he gave the phone to, had the use of the phone 
since December 2019.
I note Mr N asked Assurant what would happen if he returned the second phone and it was 
now damaged. Assurant told him it would charge him for the damage. I think thats fair as the 
phone is Assurants property.
I understand Mr N was upset that Assurants letter telling him he needed to return the 
second phone was from its fraud team. But the letter is clear that Assurant made the error 
and doesnt say or suggest it thought Mr N had acted fraudulently. Assurant isnt responsible 
for any shock or upset Mr N may have had from getting the letter.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman