DRN-3034377
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1990. Mr and Mrs L paid for the PPI 
with a regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered them both, in case 
either one or both of them were off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
Having done that, I have not found this policy to have been mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was over three decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So understandably, neither side still has the original documents from the time. Indeed, under 
data protection rules Halifax was required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ls data rather than hold 
onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based 
on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr and Mrs L into having 
PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this particular sale was much too 
long ago for me to reasonably require Halifax to be able to produce evidence from the time 
to defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled 
Mr and Mrs L  theres nothing which substantiates that. I think its more likely that it followed 
a relatively normal sales process, where it offered Mr and Mrs L a choice and they chose 
PPI at the time.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mr and Mrs L 
as possible, Ill assess things as if it did. That would mean Halifax had to check the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was.
For example, it looks like Mr and Mrs L were eligible for the cover and werent affected by 
any of its main exclusions or limitations. I understand they recall having exceptionally 
generous work benefits as they were both employed by people they knew. But the level of 
benefits theyve told us about would have been extremely unusual to the point of being 
almost unheard of, and they do not fit with their circumstances such as their young ages and 
their respective employments. And understandably, Mr and Mrs L dont have any evidence 
of their work benefits because of the time thats passed, so I dont have anything to 
substantiate what theyve told us. Further, Mr and Mrs L said they both had only verbal 
agreements, which may have been rather difficult to enforce if they were off sick for a long 
time or needed to be made redundant. So I dont think I can safely conclude that Mr and 
Mrs L didnt need the PPI. I think its more likely that they wouldve got a more normal level 
of benefits in practice, in which case the PPI could have been useful as it would have paid 
out on top of those and shored up any gaps in cover. Further, from what theyve told us Mr 
and Mrs L didnt have any savings or alternative insurance in place. And ultimately, if they 
fell behind on their mortgage they couldve lost their home. So it seems sensible that they 
took out PPI to protect their home and provide some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs L about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr and Mrs L werent affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover, and it most likely couldve been useful for them in case 
something went wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out 
in a claim. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs L could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have 
put them off taking out the cover.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs L pointed out that theyd had refunds for other PPI policies  and I can 
completely understand why they raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, 
were suitable in different situations, were sold using different methods at different times, and 
so on. So while some PPI policies were mis-sold, others were not. We look at each case on 
its individual merits. And Ive explained above why I have not found this particular policy to 
have been mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2021. 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman