DRN-3805823
The complaint
Mr O complains about the settlement that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited offered him 
in settlement of his claim on his motor insurance policy for the loss of his car.
What happened
Mr Os car was damaged in an accident. Accredited Insurances agent assessed the car and 
deemed it to have structural damage that required it to not be repaired. Accredited Insurance 
initially offered Mr O £1,250 in settlement of his claim. After Mr O complained, it then said 
that its engineer had made an error and it said the cars pre-loss market value was £6,800. It 
offered Mr O £25 compensation for making the error. But Mr O remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Accredited 
Insurance hadnt provided a reasonable valuation of Mr Os car in keeping with our 
approach. And he thought this should have been £8,015.25. He thought Accredited 
Insurance should add interest to the difference between what it offered and what it should 
have paid. And he thought it should pay Mr O £150 in total for the trouble and upset caused. 
Accredited Insurance replied that it thought its valuation of Mr Os car was reasonable. It 
said it wasnt responsible for the delays in paying the settlement as it was waiting for Mr O to 
provide his V5 document. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr O wanted his car repaired. But, as both Accredited Insurance and our 
Investigator have explained, his car couldnt be repaired because it was deemed to be a 
Category B write off. And, in keeping with industry code of practice, it had to be disposed of. 
And so Im satisfied that, in keeping with Mr Os policy, Accredited Insurance should then 
offer him the cars pre-loss market value in settlement of his claim. 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought that Accredited Insurances offer to Mr O wasnt reasonable. And so 
Ive checked how he came to this conclusion. I can see that Accredited Insurance consulted 
one trade guide and didnt then use the valuation it provided. It hasnt provided us with 
enough information to verify that this valuation was correctly made. So Im satisfied that this 
isnt fair or reasonable as its not in keeping with our approach.
Mr O provided information about similar cars advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
Our Investigator consulted four trade guides for valuations of Mr Os car. I can see that he 
checked for the correct make, model, age, mileage, condition and specification as Mr Os 
car. The range of valuations he found was evenly spread. So, again in keeping with our 
approach, he took an average of these and thought Advantage should increase its 
settlement offer to £8,015.25. 
I think Mr O should have received the correct valuation in the first instance. Accredited 
Insurance said it corrected its initial error when it offered him just a fraction of the cars value. 
But Mr O was still without his money for some time. And I think its fair and reasonable that 
Accredited Insurance should add interest to its settlement for the periods when it provided 
unreasonable offers. 
Mr O said he and his family had to use taxis as they didnt have a car. And he wanted 
compensation for this. But his policy doesnt provide for a courtesy car in the case of total 
loss. And Id expect Mr O to have mitigated his losses and accept Accredited Insurances 
second offer to replace his car whilst his complaint continued. But he didnt do so. And so I 
cant reasonably ask Accredited Insurance to compensate Mr O for his transport costs.
Accredited Insurance said it wasnt responsible for the delays in paying the claim as Mr O 
hadnt provide the cars V5. And so it thought it need not pay interest. But I dont think this is 
relevant as the settlement offer hadnt been accepted and so Mr O not providing the V5 
didnt cause any delays in the correct valuation being made and paid. I remind Mr O that he 
will need to provide this document and his bank details before his claim can be paid. 
I can see that there was an initial delay in the car being assessed by Accredited Insurances 
agent. And I think Mr O has been caused inconvenience by the unreasonable settlement 
offers. The Investigator recommended that Accredited Insurance should pay Mr O £150 in 
total compensation for this. And I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
published guidance.
Putting things right
I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr O £8,015.25 for the market value of his car, less any applicable excess. It should 
add interest at 8% simple per annum to the difference between £8,015.25 and the initial 
incorrect offer £1,250 from 24 June till 29 June, and also on the difference between 
£8,015.25 and £6,800 from 29 June until the settlement is paid.
2. Pay Mr O £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling 
of his claim. 
If Accredited Insurance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr O a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Phillip BerechreeOmbudsman