DRN-2425300
The complaint
Ms M complains that Abbey National, now known as Santander UK plc (Santander) have 
closed her account and failed to send her the balance.
What happened
Ms M had a savings account with Abbey National (Santander). Her passbook shows the last 
transaction took place on 10 June 1997, with a balance of £120.33. Ms M says that the 
account shouldve remained opened. Ms M wants her funds returned to her, she tried to 
raise this matter with Santander, who were unable to locate the account. 
Santander say that they are only required to retain financial records for six years plus the 
present year. The latest record they hold for Ms M is from 2006, when the balance of the 
account was £589.36. There records show that the account was closed on 24 April 2007. 
But they dont know where or how the account was closed. 
One of our investigators looked into this complaint. She was satisfied that the account was 
closed with a nil balance in April 2007 and that Santander dont have the funds. And 
therefore, there is no outstanding amount that is due to Ms M. 
Ms M is unhappy about the investigator assuming that the money wouldve been returned to 
her and that she may have forgotten about it. She says that she wouldnt have retained the 
passbook if she knew the account was closed. She also says that Santander didnt contact 
her to arrange for the money to be returned. She wants Santander to prove that they sent 
the money, in the absence of proof the money should now be returned back to her. The 
investigator reviewed the information and said that in the absence of evidence, shes based 
her view on what is likely to have happened. As Santander isnt legally required to keep 
records beyond six years, it would be unreasonable to expect them to prove any monies 
returned as they dont have any records. The investigator also said that a passbook doesnt 
prove that an account still exists. A passbook provides a snapshot of the balance on a 
specific date. The investigator also confirmed that the matter would be passed onto an 
ombudsman. So, this matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information that Ive seen, Ive thought about whether Santander have done 
enough to show that the account is closed. And that no funds are owed to Ms M. 
Ms M says that she wouldnt have kept her passbook if she knew the account was closed. 
As I said earlier, her passbook shows a transaction that took place on 10 June 1997, with a 
balance of £120.33. Before banks started using computers to keep records of accounts, 
customers were given a passbook for their account. They had to present this when they 
wanted to pay money in or out of their account. The cashier would hand-write the entries in 
the passbook, which was used as a record of the account. 
After computerisation, which facilitated account record-keeping provision of printed 
statements, passbooks were no longer used for record purposes. But some banks didn't 
insist on recovering old passbooks. Santander say that the account was closed on 24 April 
2007, Im satisfied this is correct as Ive seen computerised evidence of this. 
Prior to 2007, Santander were reporting a yearly balance of the account to Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs (HMRC) from 2002 until 2006. From what Ive seen, the account 
wasnt actively used as the increase in the account balance each year was only as a result 
of the annual interest that was applied. The last reported balance was in 2006 for £589.36. 
As this is not a statement, I couldnt see any other transactions going in or out of the 
account. Nonetheless, Im satisfied that the account was closed in 2007, if it wasnt, 
Santander wouldve continued to report the balance to HMRC. 
Santander dont have any information in regard to how the account was closed, but due to 
the length of time that has passed this isnt surprising. Im satisfied that they wouldve acted 
on Ms Ms instructions in order to close the account. And at that point they wouldve returned 
any monies owed to her. Ms M disputes this and says she wouldve known if the money was 
returned to her. I cant say that Santander have done something unfairly when they dont 
have the information. I cant reasonably expect them to give this information, given the 
length of time that has passed.
There is no record to show how the account was closed and if Santander followed the 
correct process. Ive considered Ms Ms representations about this, but I cant discount the 
possibility that although Ms M was abroad at the time, the account couldve been closed 
down by a written request, either by email or post. The money couldve been taken by her as 
there are ways of withdrawing funds from abroad. 
I also cant discount the possibility that Santander may have sent the money to her by 
cheque. As Ms M has confirmed that the address Santander had for her was correct at that 
time, it would have been sent to the correct place. Likewise, Ms M may have forgotten about 
either withdrawing or receiving funds. I know Ms M says she wouldve remembered but I 
cant discount this possibility either. 
I appreciate that Ms M has no recollection of receiving any monies or a cheque. Even 
without the recollection, Im basing my decision on what that factual evidence shows. Im 
satisfied that the account wouldve been closed at a nil balance. This means that Santander 
dont have the funds and no amount is owed to Ms M. Given the length of time that has 
passed and the limited evidence that Ive seen from both parties, I dont find that Santander 
has done anything wrong or treated Ms M unfairly. I appreciate that this will be a 
disappointing outcome for Ms M.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman