DRN-2870114
The complaint
Mr B complains Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Lloyds Bank, will not refund some disputed 
transactions.
What happened
Mr B complained to Lloyds about some transactions on his account made to an online 
betting company  W.  The payments were made over a 6-day period and Mr B said he 
hadnt made them and knew nothing about them.  During his initial call with Lloyds, Lloyds 
said Mr B confirmed that he lived alone and no one else would have access to his card.  
Towards the end of the conversation, Mr B disclosed that he had had a visitor for a few days 
and thought that he had made these transactions.
Lloyds refunded part of the payments but then re-debited this money from Mr Bs account.  It 
didnt uphold his complaint either.  It said the following evidence suggested Mr B had 
authorised the payments:
- the payments were made using the same IP address Mr B had used before  other 
than the last few;
- any winnings from the gambling transactions would be paid into Mr Bs account so it 
couldnt see any benefit to a third party in making these transactions;
- biometrics had been used to complete each transaction;
- Mr B had been logging onto his online banking throughout this period and must have 
seen the transactions  yet had not raised the alarm sooner;
- despite blaming his visitor for these fraudulent payments, Mr B had continued to send 
payments to him.
Lloyds did accept it had made a mistake in refunding some of the money to Mr B  so it 
offered £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  But Mr B wanted a full refund of 
the transactions and brought his complaint to this service.
When our investigator looked at Mr Bs complaint, he didnt think he could ask Lloyds to do 
anymore.  He made contact with W and was told it did not hold an account in Mr Bs name.  
It wouldnt give us any further information.
Mr B made further submissions. He said he had worked for Lloyds for a long time and there 
was no plausible explanation as to why he would lie about these transactions now.  He 
asked that an ombudsman make a final decision, taking into account his further 
submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr B and Lloyds have read the 
investigators view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis 
of my decision. However, I can assure Mr B that Ive read the file, including his 
comments and evidence.
Mr B says he didnt make the disputed payments and is seeking a refund. So, my 
primary concern is to come to a view about whether, on balance, I think he authorised 
the payments or not.
In short, Lloyds is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 
PSRs 2017).  Authorisation is a two-stage test consisting of authentication and 
consent  and I remind myself that it is for Lloyds to show that Mr B authorised the 
payments rather than for Mr B to show that he did not.
Authentication in this case is the use of Mr Bs card details  and having seen the evidence 
provided by Lloyds, I am satisfied that the payments were authenticated.  However, Lloyds 
also needs to show Mr B consented to the payments.
For the following reasons I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to come to this 
conclusion:
- Lloyds have told this service that the first payment to W triggered its fraud detection 
system.  A text message was sent to Mr Bs phone asking if he had authorised the 
payment.  It received a positive response which then allowed the further payments to 
be made.  Its not able to show evidence of this text now  but I think its likely it was 
sent.  As Mr Bs phone is accessed using his finger print, I can only conclude that he 
responded to the text;
- During the period of disputed transactions, Mr B logged onto his online banking and 
carried out some transactions. I think its likely that he would have seen the payments 
to W but yet did not raise them sooner;
- there is some weight to the argument Lloyds put forward as to third party not 
benefitting from these transactions as any winnings would have been paid directly 
into Mr Bs account;
- despite Mr B saying this third party was responsible for the fraudulent transactions, 
he continued to send further funds to him.
Mr B has provided this service with a screen shot of a conversation he has had on social 
media with this individual.  He says this is evidence that he hadnt authorised the payments  
but I dont agree.  I dont think that necessarily follows from what I have seen.
I cant be sure what has happened here.  It may be that Mr B allowed his card to be used on 
the basis that he would be paid back the funds.  But my role isnt to make a finding on what 
did happen  my role is to decide whether Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in how it 
dealt with Mr Bs complaint about the disputed transactions.In the circumstances, I think that it did.
Ive then gone onto consider whether Lloyds could have done more to protect Mr Bs 
account.
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, 
in exceptional cases, I may ask whether the bank shouldve identified any unusual or out 
of character transactions that could involve fraud or financial abuse. There is industry 
guidance on this in the BSI Code of Practice on Protecting Customers from Financial 
harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. This guidance includes persuasive evidence 
of what banks can do to protect customers, especially vulnerable customers.
Again, I think Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably because its fraud system was in fact 
triggered and a text was sent to Mr Bs registered number.  As the response suggested Mr B 
had authorised the payment, the following transactions were allowed.
Finally, Ive thought about the offer of £150 which Lloyds has offered for incorrectly making a 
partial refund.  I think this is also a fair and reasonable offer and would encourage Mr B to 
accept this if he has not done so already.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman