The complaint
Miss G says that Western Circle Ltd, trading as CashFloat, lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner. 
What happened
This complaint is about seven loans CashFloat gave to Miss G between January 2018 and 
November 2018. A summary of Miss Gs lending history with CashFloat is as follows: 
loan date£ amount 
borrowedno. of 
repayments date repaid
1 02-January-2018 250 1 31-January-2018
2 01-February-2018 450 2 24-March-2018
3 27-March-2018 650 3 23-April-2018
4 01-May-2018 300 1 25-May-2018
5 19-July-2018 250 2 25-July-2018
6 21-August-2018 400 2 28-September-2018
7 13-November-2018 450 4 12-January-2019
Miss G says that she was in financial difficulties when she took out these loans. She wants a 
refund of interest and charges.
CashFloat didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint but offered her compensation of £50, which  
 Miss G didnt accept. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Gs complaint in part. He didnt think that CashFloat should 
have given Miss G loans six and seven. The adjudicator set out what he thought CashFloat 
should do to put matters right. CashFloat disagreed and said that Miss G had adequate 
disposable income to repay the loans in a sustainable manner and that there were gaps in 
her borrowing. As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed 
to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
DRN-1753120CashFloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure    
 Miss G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that CashFloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
CashFloat was required to establish whether Miss G could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
I dont think that CashFloat was at fault in giving Miss G loans one to five. Given the 
repayment amounts, what was apparent about Miss Gs circumstances at the time and her 
history with the lender at that point, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for CashFloat 
to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. 
There wasnt anything in the information Miss G provided or the information CashFloat 
shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate for it to start verifying 
what Miss G said. I think the position changed from loan six. Ive looked at the overall pattern of CashFloats 
lending history with  Miss G, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which it should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful and 
should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. Given the particular 
circumstances of Miss Gs case, I think that this point was reached by loan six. I say this 
because by then, Miss G had taken out six loans in seven months. The amounts Miss G 
borrowed varied but loan six was for more than loan one. Miss G wasnt making any real 
inroads to the amount she owed Cashfloat. Loan seven was taken out ten months after  Miss 
Gs first loan. Miss G had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service an intermittent 
debt to CashFloat over an extended period.
CashFloat refers to gaps in Miss Gs lending. I dont think that the gaps were significant 
here, such that they broke the chain of lending. There was a gap of under a month between 
Miss G repaying loan five and taking out loan six and just over six weeks between Miss Gs 
repayment of loan six and her taking out loan seven. I dont think that those gaps were such 
that CashFloat was entitled to treat Miss G as a new borrower. 
In the particular circumstances here, I think that from loan six, the pattern of lending itself 
shows that the loans were unsustainable. I dont think that CashFloat should have given 
Miss G loans six and seven. 
I think that Miss G lost out because CashFloat continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because loans six and seven had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Gs 
indebtedness by allowing her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an 
extended period of time. And the number of loans may have had negative implications on 
Miss Gs ability to access mainstream credit, and so kept her in the market for these        
high-cost loans.
So Im upholding Miss Gs complaint about loans six and seven and CashFloat should put 
things right.
Putting things right - what CashFloat needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss G paid on loans six and seven;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken from loan six onwards means any information recorded
about them is adverse. So all entries about loans six and seven should be removed
from Miss Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires CashFloat to take off tax from this interest. CashFloat 
must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Gs complaint in part. Western Circle Ltd 
should pay Miss G compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Louise Povey
Ombudsman