DRN-3145222
The complaint
Ms B complains about delays and the mishandling of a claim by her car insurer, Advantage 
Insurance Company Limited.
What happened
A car accident in November 2019 caused Ms B to claim on her policy with Advantage. The 
car was collected two days later by Advantages authorised repairer and a few days later she 
collected a courtesy car. She said her car had seven seats, but the courtesy car only had 
five, which caused difficulties in transporting children and her pet. Advantage said the car 
was an upgrade on what she was entitled to under the policy.
The repairer assessed Ms Bs car, and authorised repairs with a return expected within four 
weeks. She said she called the repairer several times to check on collection as she was due 
to drive for Christmas. But at the last minute she was told it wouldnt be ready and she had 
to change her plans at considerable inconvenience.
Ms B chased the repair but covid restrictions meant parts couldnt be obtained. She called 
the engineer in January 2021 who said her cars electronic control unit wasnt working and 
he agreed to write it off. The write off value was £25,000 and the value agreed with Ms Bs 
lease company was £17,000 (including her payments until January 2021). 
Ms B paid monthly lease instalments for over a year and renewed her insurance in October 
2020 expecting her car would be back on the road. Ms B complained about the handling of 
her claim and delayed repair and said this happened in a period for her of loss and great 
difficulty with covid restrictions. She said if the car had been written off earlier, she could 
have used the lease payments and insurance as a down payment on a new vehicle. 
Advantage responded to Ms Bs complaint saying it was sorry about the time taken to decide 
her car was a write off. It said her insurance cover was still required, but it had considered 
this in its offer of £500 compensation for its very poor service. It also offered Ms B £1,338.40 
for the cost of leasing the courtesy car she was given while her car was in for repairs, and 
the amount she paid to lease her car for the time hers was in for repairs.
Ms B was unhappy with Advantages response and referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part. He said Advantage had 
provided a courtesy car which was larger than the policy required and had compensated her 
for the difference between the lease agreement and the one on the car Ms B was provided 
and this was fair. He said its compensation of £500 for her stress was also reasonable.
The investigator said Advantages write off offer was fair, and Ms B needed her insurance for 
the courtesy car. He said Advantage had correctly applied the excess charge. But he said 
Ms B paid a deposit of £1,844.45 split over the term of the agreement. As Ms Bs agreement 
ended early, part of the deposit was unused and should be refunded by Advantage.
Advantage disagreed with the investigator saying the deposit is in fact part of the initial 
rental payment and as she wasnt buying the car, its chargeable regardless of what 
happened under the agreement. It requested the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn that Ms Bs car was in for repair for over a year before it was deemed a 
total loss. This was an unacceptable amount of time, though I can see that Advantage took 
the decision to write it off due to the continued unavailability of parts. Our service has 
required insurers to take this step in similar circumstances.
Im pleased Advantage provided a courtesy car throughout the period that Ms B was without 
her car. I can well understand her difficulties as this was smaller than her car, but it was a 
little larger than that which the policy required Advantage to provide. And so I think 
Advantage treated Ms B fairly here.
Ms B continued to pay the instalments and insurance premiums on her car though she was 
unable to use it and wants compensation. Ms B wants Advantage to pay the difference 
between what she insured her car for and the write off settlement. And further compensation 
for poor service and the stress shes been put through. Ms B would like Advantage to waive 
the excess charge of £250 as a gesture of goodwill.
Taking each of Ms Bs requests in turn, Advantage has offered Ms B compensation for the 
write off value of her car  she would like the insured value. However, her policy states that a 
car on a lease agreement will receive the market value or whats required to settle the lease 
contract, whichever is less. And so Advantage has acted within the policy term with its offer 
and it wouldnt be fair for it to pay Ms B the difference in value.
Advantage offered Ms B the difference in cost between her vehicle on lease and the lease 
cost of the courtesy car it provided, and I think this was fair. Ms B said she should get a 
refund of her insurance premiums as she wasnt able to use her car. But she still needed the 
cover in place for her use of the courtesy car and so this wouldnt provide a fair outcome. 
Our service expects an insurer to repay a policyholders unused deposit from a lease 
agreement. Advantage has said this wasnt a loss relevant to the policy. However, the policy 
is meant to indemnify Ms B for loss. She has no ownership of the car, now written off, but 
shes suffered the loss part of her deposit. And so I agree with the investigator that it would 
be fair for Advantage to pay Ms B for the proportion of her deposit relevant to the length of 
the lease agreement following termination. Advantage has calculated this at £845.37. 
I agree with Advantage that it provided very poor service to Ms B and I think that is reflected 
by its offer of £500 compensation for the stress and inconvenience this caused her. I dont 
think it needs to go further than this by waiving the excess charge, which is payable by Ms B 
for the first part of her claim under the terms of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to Pay Ms B £500 compensation for the 
stress and inconvenience its poor service has caused her  if it hasnt already paid this. And 
the compensation of £1,338.40 it offered for the difference between her car and the courtesy 
car.I also require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Ms B £845.37 being the 
proportion of her initial deposit which remained unused when her lease agreement ended 
prematurely. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman