DRN-3744413
The complaint
Mr D complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited unfairly declined his deferment 
application. 
What happened
Mr D has a student loan with Erudio that has been subject to deferment for some years. 
Mr D is self employed with income coming from various sources. In 2021 Mr D applied for 
another deferment and information about his income was supplied. Mr D has explained that 
two of his businesses made a profit but his third business operated at a significant loss. As a 
result, Mr D and his accountant say his gross income fell below the deferment threshold. 
Erudio didnt approve the deferment application and said it took gross income before any 
losses were applied. Mr D complained but Erudio didnt agree it had acted unfairly or made a 
mistake. An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ds complaint and upheld it. They 
thought Erudios decision was unfair and said it should retrospectively approve the 
deferment application for 2021 and refund any payments Mr D had made, subject to 8% 
interest. 
Erudio didnt respond to an information request or follow up findings from the investigator 
advising how they thought Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. As a result, Mr Ds complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Erudio has told us it sought advice and used gross income before deductions to decide 
whether a customer is eligible for deferment. Mr Ds accountant has provided their comment 
and explained Mr Ds income is made up from different sources and that his gross income, 
when taken together was actually a loss. So Mr D says his income feel substantially below 
the deferment threshold. 
I understand Erudios point about the use of gross income for deferment purposes. But 
Mr Ds accountant has confirmed the approach taken isnt on the basis of deductions for 
expenses, tax or other similar items. Theyve explained the gross income figure used is 
derived across Mr Ds different sources of income and falls substantially below the threshold. 
The approach seems reasonable to me. And Erudio hasnt explained why its decision to 
disregard Mr Ds losses when reaching a usable income figure is fairer than the approach 
used by his accountant. 
Our investigator first contacted Erudio with a request for further comment at the beginning of 
August 2022 and, in the absence of a response, went on to uphold Mr Ds complaint around 
six weeks later, in mid September 2022. Erudio hasnt responded to the information request 
or the investigators view. Im satisfied its had reasonable opportunity to do so and provide 
further comment. 
Based on the evidence we have on file, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. The approach taken 
by Mr D and his accountant appears reasonable and despite being asked on various 
occasions to explain why it disagrees, Erudio hasnt responded. In my view, taking all Mr Ds 
sources of income into account when deriving his gross income for deferment purposes is 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr D ultimately made repayments as a result of having his deferment application declined. 
Given I think Erudio ought to have approved the deferment, Im telling it to refund Mr Ds 
student loan payment plus interest. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint and direct Erudio to settle as follows: 
- Agree and backdate deferment application for 2021
- Refund all payments made during what wouldve been Mr Ds deferment period for 
2021 plus 8% interest from the date each payment was received to the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman