DRN-2109577
The complaint
Miss H is unhappy that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans agreed to a 
loan shed applied for as she said it was unaffordable for her.
What happened
In September 2018 Miss H took out a £3,000 loan with Everyday, to be repaid over 24 
months with repayments of £285.20 a month.
Miss H said Everyday shouldnt have approved the loan as it wasnt affordable when all of 
her circumstances were taken into consideration. Shes said she couldnt afford to repay the 
loan and had to borrow from family members. She complained to Everyday as she didnt 
think theyd done enough to establish her true situation.
Everyday said theyd carried out sufficient checks that showed the loan was affordable for 
Miss H. They calculated she had disposable income of £714.01. And there was no evidence 
on Miss Hs bank statements of any payday loans or gambling.
Miss H wasnt happy with their response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said Everyday had carried out a credit search and asked Miss H for details 
of her income and expenditure at the time of the application. But said Everyday should have 
asked for further information to determine Miss Hs financial circumstances. So, hed looked 
at Miss Hs bank statements for the three months leading up to the application. Miss H said 
the loan was to clear some of her financial commitments. And he said based on this 
Everyday would have still said the loan was affordable. So, he  didnt think Everyday had 
acted irresponsibly when agreeing the loan Miss H applied for. And he didnt think they 
needed to do anything more.
Miss H didnt agree with the investigator. She said that the regular bills figure the investigator 
used was wrong, and that  I believe the affordability checks were not reasonable and 
proportionate and my living expenses hugely under estimated. She said she paid £250 for 
rent but also had to contribute for food. And she had monthly travel costs of £252 and 
additional food costs of £146 per month. Shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are whether Everyday carried out proportionate checks. And 
whether the loan made was affordable and sustainable for Miss H.
Regulations in place at the time Everyday lent to Miss H required them to carry out a 
reasonable assessment of whether Miss H could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check. 
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Everyday need to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Miss H. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to think only about 
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of 
repayment on Miss H herself. 
Checks also must be proportionate taking into account the specific circumstances of the loan 
application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check will generally depend on  
several factors such as the particular circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, 
current situation and whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. 
Consideration should also be given to the amount, type and cost of credit theyre applying 
for. This could mean a proportionate check could differ for the same borrower for different 
loan applications. 
So, Ive considered whether Everyday in lending to Miss H had been thorough in the checks 
they made. And whether theyve taken all of these factors into account in deciding to lend to 
her.
Everyday said Miss Hs credit checks didnt show she was having any difficulty in repaying 
her existing financial commitments. Everyday said the income and expenditure information 
provided suggested Miss H had a monthly disposable income of over £714. Which would 
imply that the loan was easily affordable. But they also said her bank statements didnt show 
any payday loans.
Miss H applied for the loan as she said she wanted to refinance and clear existing loans, in 
particular payday loans. Having looked at her bank statements, three months prior to the 
loan being taken out, and her credit file. I can see Miss H had a regular ongoing history of 
taking our payday loans. 
But the credit report Ive seen doesnt show she was struggling. And Ive seen nothing to 
show me that Miss H made Everyday aware of any additional loans that didnt show on her 
credit file or hadnt been declared as part of the income and expenditure calculations.
The bank statements Ive seen for July 2018 through to September 2018 show Miss H had a 
monthly income from two jobs between £1582.68 and £1959.94. And her monthly board 
payment is regularly showing as £487, which I think is £250 for rent (the amount Miss H 
confirmed with Everyday) and the remaining £237 would I think be the amount Miss H says 
she contributes towards food. I can also see for the two months before she took out the loan 
she paid on average £240 for travel, this included between £9 and £50 on single taxi trips. 
Miss H had regular credit commitments of around £250, and spent about another £100 on 
miscellaneous items. Miss Hs account doesnt show her moving into an overdraft balance at 
any point.  
I can see she had incoming and outgoing from payday loans. But Miss H has said she 
applied for the loan with Everyday to pay off some of her financial commitments and this 
included three pay day loan companies, which I can see she did settle in October 2018 after 
getting the loan from Everyday. So, Ive not considered these amounts in Miss Hs regular 
incoming and outgoing commitments, as the purpose of the loan was to settle these, and 
she did.So, based on Miss Hs minimum monthly income, less her household bills, her regular credit 
commitments, and miscellaneous spending, she would have around £500 a month 
disposable income each month. And Everydays loan payment was £285.20. So I think the 
loan was affordable.
Because of all of this, Im satisfied the checks Everyday did when approving Miss Hs loan 
were reasonable and proportionate. And I dont think that the lending was irresponsible or 
unaffordable at the time. So, I wont be asking Everyday to refund any payments, charges or 
interest.
But Miss H is in financial difficulties and struggling to repay the loan. So Id expect Everyday 
to deal with these circumstances fairly and sympathetically, and look to arrange a payment 
plan thats affordable for Miss H.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman