DRN-3014554
The complaint
Mrs M has complained about the sum offered in settlement for her written-off car by AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited (AA) under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M had a car insurance policy with the AA at the relevant time. In October 2020, she was 
involved in a car accident and reported it to the AA. The AA accepted the claim and deemed 
the car beyond economical repair and therefore a write-off.
AA valued the car and originally offered Mrs M £13,850. Mrs M disagreed and thought that 
her car had been undervalued by AA. It looked at the matter again and increased the offer to 
£14,000. Mrs M remained unhappy and made a complaint to our service. It was her view that 
AA had not taken extra accessories into account.
Our investigator clarified that optional extras rarely increase the value of a car significantly. 
Even so, he didnt think the AAs valuation reflected the true market value of Mrs Ms car
The investigator upheld the complaint. Hed carried out his own investigation and obtained 
three trade guide valuations, the lowest of which was £14,107 and the average of which was 
£14,401. He noted that the offer made to Mrs M was below the lowest valuation. He 
concluded that it would be fair and reasonable for AA to settle the claim by paying the 
difference between what it had paid Mrs M and £14,401. 
AA was unhappy with this outcome. It said that its valuation was carried out in line with this 
services guidance and has queried the valuations obtained by the investigator. In the 
circumstances, the matter has been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as 
Ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To clarify, my role isnt to decide the exact value of Mrs Ms car. My role is to decide whether 
the approach AA has taken in reaching its valuation is fair in all the circumstances. As a 
service, we look at whether AA has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the 
vehicle fairly in line with standard industry practice.
In this case, I conclude that AA hasnt acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its valuation of 
Mrs Ms car and Ill explain why.
The starting point is for me to consider the policy terms and conditions. The relevant part 
states that in the event of a vehicle being written off, AA may compensate the policy-holder 
for the market value of the vehicle;
The Insurer will pay for loss of or damage to the Insured Car its accessories (excluding
audio, satellite navigation and communication equipment) and spare parts kept in or on
the Insured Car or in Your private garage by (at the Insurers discretion)paying in cash the 
amount of the loss or the damage. 
The maximum amount payable will be the Market Value of the Insured Car.
As to Market Value, this is defined as;
The cost of replacing the Insured Car with one of the same make, model, age, mileage,
specification and condition at the date of accident or loss.
AA looked at two relevant trade guides when valuing Mrs Ms car, the MOT history of the 
vehicle, the mileage covered, the condition and other information held by the DVLA. In 
making its final offer of £14,000, it averaged out the figures of £14,540 and £13,150 to reach 
this figure. It said that the figure would be subject to the excess deduction (£350).
Our investigator looked at three relevant trade guides. Following his investigations, the 
figures produced to reach this figure were £14,540, £14,107 and £14,556. He therefore 
arrived at an average figure of £14,401.
AA has questioned one trade guide valuation obtained by the investigator which differed 
from the one figure obtained by AA. It noted the guide commentary; which suggests that the 
vehicles value increased post Nov 2020 due to the demand in the market. So any valuation 
you take in consideration should be for the time the incident occurred and not current market
guides in 2021.
As to the one trade guide valuation, AA also said that it understood that a search on that 
guide couldnt be back-dated to the date of loss. It considered that the investigators search 
would not have aligned with the search AA carried out at the time and subsequently made 
the offer against. It assumed that the search; was carried out sometime after the incident 
and with the increase in the second hand market increasing the customer is benefited from 
your search. Therefore it would be unfair to rule against us in this instance.
AA also states that for the investigator; to increase the offer by 3% on the value of the car is 
not a reasonable approach as it is not significant difference in offer made by us and goes 
against your guidance. The guidance FOS provides helps to determine whether an insurer 
has made a fair offer.
Mrs Ms husband produced on his wifes behalf a number of adverts showing similar cars for 
sale at prices exceeding £14,000. He said that; my wifes car had more identified factory 
fitted accessories fitted to her car than the vast majorityI saw immediately post the 
accident, or see now. That is the reason I purchased that particular car, also in the 
favourablecolour. Mrs M wasnt satisfied that AA had taken into account the exact model, 
relevant optional extras and the colour of the vehicle. She considered that she should be 
compensated on a like for like basis.
Finally, Mrs Ms husband said; I appreciate that these factory fitted accessories will not 
sustain the retail value, but without a doubt they do increase the value of the car when 
analysing the stock available on the likes of dealer websites...
My conclusion is as follows. Its standard practice for the industry to use trade valuation 
guides to reach the estimated market value and this is the approach which AA took. 
Although the service doesnt consider this to be an exact science, we generally find 
valuations given in the main motor trade guides do provide the most persuasive, reliable and 
consistent evidence. Its often possible to find adverts for cars for sale at a much higher price than someone 
would have to pay if they shopped around. Although Mrs M has supplied copies of several 
adverts which might suggest a higher valuation than £14,000, we find that advertised prices 
are generally less reliable than the trade guides. They vary widely and usually, even more 
widely than trade guides and they tend to have some margin built in for negotiating the price 
down.
Mrs M acknowledges that optional extras depreciate and I agree with the investigator that 
they dont usually make a significant difference to a second hand valuation.
Having set out the above, I come to the following conclusion however. I appreciate that AA 
produced a figure which reflected the average of two guide figures which it obtained in 
December 2020. Our services investigator obtained a third figure. I consider that the 
average of three guide figures to be more persuasive. I conclude that AAs valuation doesnt 
provide a fair and reasonable valuation in the circumstances. Its below each of the guide 
figures obtained by our investigator.
In addition to this, I note that the inconsistent guide figure obtained by AA reflects the value 
as if the date of loss had been in December 2020 and not October 2020 when the collision 
occurred. Its not the case that the figure produced by the guide in question cannot be back-
dated to obtain a valuation as at the date of the accident. If AA had asked for a figure for the 
correct date, Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the figure obtained would have 
matched that obtained by the investigator.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint for the reasons given above and to put things right, I require AA 
Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to do the following within 28 days of her 
acceptance of the Final Decision:
- Pay Mrs M the average of the three trade guides which is £14,401, (the AA being 
entitled to deduct the excess amount) if it hasnt been paid already, or
- If the AA has already paid Mrs M then pay the difference between the sum already 
paid by AA and £14,401, less excess.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman