DRN-1987068
The complaint
Mr W complains that Adrian Flux Insurance Services Group declined to arrange a renewal of 
his classic motor insurance policy in March 2020 because hed had cause to complain about 
its service previously. 
What happened
It seems Mr W had used Adrian Fluxs services as a broker to arrange his motor insurance 
cover for many years. Hed brought a complaint against it to this service recently, which was 
upheld, so he thought its decision not to continue to act for him in 2020 was based on that. 
Adrian Flux said in its response to Mr Ws complaint that it thought his needs would be better 
served elsewhere, as hed been disappointed with its service on several occasions. Mr W 
said he was disadvantaged by the decision, as it meant he had to spend time researching 
cover elsewhere. He also said that as he now had a record of being declined insurance 
cover - and was obliged to declare it - his premiums were higher than they would otherwise 
have been.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ws complaint. He said Adrian Flux wasnt obliged to 
offer its services indefinitely and it had the right to make a commercial decision not to do so. 
He said that wasnt a refusal to offer insurance, as Adrian Flux is a broker, not an insurer. 
And in his view, it gave Mr W enough time to arrange insurance elsewhere. Mr W said a 
business shouldnt be allowed to penalise a consumer due to that consumer having made a 
legitimate complaint. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think a broker is entitled to decide whether it wants to continue a business relationship with 
a consumer. In this case, Adrian Flux told Mr W it was exercising its commercial right not to 
provide further service. From what it said to Mr W, it wanted to prevent any more 
dissatisfaction on Mr Ws part that might arise should business transactions between them 
continue. The decision appears to have been based on the totality of Adrian Fluxs past 
experiences with Mr W. It noted in its letter to him explaining its decision that it was aware 
hed been disappointed with its service on a number of occasions.  
 
As Adrian Flux declined to offer further services as a broker, Mr W would have had to find 
another broker or research cover with insurers directly. Mr W was happy with the policy that 
was about to renew through Adrian Flux, so having to look for cover e lsewhere would have 
involved time and effort on his part. But Mr W wasnt declined insurance cover by Adrian 
Flux, just further service from it. So there was nothing for him to declare to other brokers or 
insurers as a result of its decision that would have affected his premiums adversely.  
Although I appreciate that Mr W was disappointed and inconvenienced by Adrian Fluxs 
decision, I dont think hes shown that it acted unreasonably, so I cant uphold his complaint. 
   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman