DRN-2060110
The complaint
Mr H complains that Secure Trust Bank Plc (STB), trading as Moneyway, were 
unreasonable when defaulting his account and he says they should have given more 
consideration to his mental health.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr H acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
When he told STB that he was experiencing financial difficulties in 2017 I would expect them 
to have been sensitive, flexible and responsive. I think thats especially the case because Im 
persuaded they were most likely to have been aware of his poor mental health. I say that 
because I can see from STBs logs that they were aware of his health issues and that they 
had passed the case on to a specialist team. 
I think STB have been sensitive, flexible and responsive and have done all I would have 
expected of them in the circumstances.
I say that because:
I can see they have been prepared to schedule and reschedule several repayment 
plans with Mr H. Those plans were established in July, August and September of 
2018; 
they have referred him to a specialist team who I think its fair to see would be more 
capable of helping Mr H;
they have allowed Mr H to keep his car after the account was defaulted even though 
they could reasonably have tried to repossess it.
The relevant guidance says that when a consumer is at least three months behind with their 
payments the account may be defaulted. That was the case in November 2018 when STB 
eventually did default the agreement. So I dont think it would be fair to suggest STB did 
anything wrong at that point and I think there is significant evidence to suggest they had 
been sensitive, flexible and responsive of Mr Hs situation up to that point, and afterwards 
when they agreed to allow him to keep the car.
I understand that Mr H is concerned that STB were recording incorrect benefits on his 
account. But this was after they had approved the finance and if those benefits were 
incorrect it would only have led STB to default the account earlier. So, I dont think this 
supports Mr Hs complaint, and overall, I dont think it would be fair to ask STB to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman