DRN-3257772
The complaint
Ms B complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds (Ageas) handling of a subsidence claim. 
Any references to Ageas include its agents.
What happened
Ms B owns a flat within a building of eight flats. Ms B says in December 2016, the owner of 
another flat in the building notified the freeholder that they had seen signs of cracking in their 
property. Ageas was then notified of the potential claim in November 2018. 
Ageas appointed a loss adjuster, who arranged for an arborist to inspect the property. Ms B 
says there is a mature Cedar tree outside the property, which she thought likely to be 
contributing the cause of subsidence. This tree wasnt identified by the arborist, but some 
smaller trees were. These were felled in November 2019, but Ms B says there continued to 
be evidence of cracking in the property. Following on from this, Ms B says the loss adjuster 
considered the property was recovering from the work to remove the nearby trees, but it was 
agreed the Cedar tree would be pruned.
A further report by a different arborists was instructed. This report implicated the Cedar tree 
as likely being implicated in the cause of the continuing subsidence. This happened in May 
2020, but the Cedar tree wasnt felled until September 2020.
Ms B says the handling of the claim has impacted her. She says shes had problems 
keeping tenants in her flat and carrying out the necessary repairs identified. Ms B 
complained to Ageas saying there had been a lack of care and attention when handling the 
claim, and that it was taking too long to resolve. In July 2020, Ageas agreed there were 
avoidable delays in its handling of the claim. Ageas sent Ms B £150 in recognition of the 
delays experienced. 
Unhappy with Ageas response to her complaint, Ms B referred this matter to us. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened and recommended Ageas increase the 
compensation it had offered to £500. Ageas accepted this, but Ms B didnt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this has been a long running claim, and Ive summarised the background briefly 
above. This isnt intended to disregard any submissions made, rather its a reflection of the 
informal nature of this service. My decision here focuses on Ageas handling of the claim up 
until it issued its final response letter in July 2020. This means I havent considered any of 
Ms Bs concerns about the handling of the claim or repairs since this point. And I havent 
considered her comments about the increase in premiums, as this wasnt included in Ageas 
final response letter. 
Theres no dispute about the property experiencing subsidence  or what the cause of the 
subsidence is. What Ill be considering here is whether the compensation payment 
recommended by our investigator is a fair and reasonable resolution to Ms Bs complaint 
about Ageas handling of the claim. 
Its accepted the Cedar tree could have been implicated in the subsidence much sooner than 
it was. Ageas has said the miscommunication that caused the Cedar to be overlooked 
resulted in a five-month delay in arranging for the tree to be felled. 
I dont consider the approach originally taken to remove the smaller trees to be entirely 
unreasonable here. In doing so, if the property continued to experience subsidence, there 
would be clear evidence that the Cedar tree was contributing to any continued movement. 
Given the property was in a conservation area, I dont consider it surprising this was a first 
course of action. 
Ive considered the information provided and I agree it was clear, from the early part of the 
claim, the Cedar tree was likely to be implicated in the subsidence. As Ive said, I can see 
the logic to removing the smaller shrubs to confirm if the Cedar was implicated. However, Im 
satisfied that there was sufficient information on file, and in the loss adjusters notes, to 
suggest there were grounds to seek a second opinion on the Cedar tree following the 
original arborists report. It took another year before the second arborists report was 
instructed and I consider this step could and should have been taken sooner. 
However, there isnt any doubt the claim was delayed as a result of a miscommunication 
between the loss adjuster and original arborist. This delayed matters by several months. And 
the overall responsibility for this delay rests with Ageas.
I appreciate Ms B is aware subsidence claims can be long-running. This claim was logged in 
late 2018 and is still unresolved. As Ms B knows, we can only consider Ageas handling of 
the claim up until the point of the final response letter  which was issued here in July 2020.
So, for the timeframe I am able to consider, its clear Ageas delayed the progression of this 
case. And its clear this delay has impacted Ms B. Shes consistently been in touch with 
Ageas to try and progress the claim and has set out her concerns about the Cedar tree on a 
number of occasions. Ms B has a tenant in her flat and has explained how shes been 
impacted by the damage that remains outstanding. Shes had to spend a significant amount 
of time trying to maintain tenants in her flat, and its been a worrying and frustrating time for 
her 
Our investigator recommended Ageas pay compensation of £500 to Ms B. I agree that, 
considering the impact the delays between late 2018 and July 2020, the compensation of 
£500 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Ms B £500 for the distress 
and inconvenience experienced. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022. 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman