DRN-3979091
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement with 
Zopa Bank Limited.
What happened
In August 2021 Mr M entered into a hire purchase agreement (agreement) with Zopa for 
the purchase of a used car costing £4,295. The car was just over ten years old and had 
covered approximately 93,300 miles. Mr M purchased the car from a garage that I will call 
C.
Under the terms of the agreement, everything else being equal, Mr M undertook to make 
36 monthly payments of £133.85, making a total repayable of £4,818.60 at an APR of 7.9%.
In February 2022 Mr M complained to C that the car had broken down and he had been 
advised that this was due to a failed cambelt. Mr M advised C he was looking for a repair to 
be undertaken free of charge. C declined Mr Ms request.
Mr M then complained to Zopa and said that in his view the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to him. 
Zopa had the car inspected. And following receipt of the inspection report it issued Mr M with 
a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this FRL Zopa said it wasnt upholding Mr Ms 
complaint because it wasnt persuaded the car was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to him.
Mr Ms complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary, she said she wasnt persuaded the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view, so his complaint has been passed to me for 
review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
Its clear that both parties have very strong feelings about this complaint. Both parties have 
provided detailed submissions in support of their respective views which I can confirm Ive 
read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that the parties will not take the fact 
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every point raised. The purpose of my decision is to set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what 
I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. Zopa is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, 
and responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The relevant law at the time Mr M entered into his agreement said that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that goods would be of satisfactory quality. To be 
considered to be of satisfactory quality, the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In essence Mr M submits that C should have either replaced the cambelt on the car prior to it 
being supplied to him (given the manufacturer recommends a cambelt change when the car 
is ten years old) or that it should have brought clearly to his attention that the cambelt hadnt 
been changed and a change was due and/or required immediately.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but Im not persuaded C had to do either of the things he 
submits it should have done. 
C was under no obligation to change the cam belt before selling the car. In fact, C was under 
no obligation to service the car at all, even if a service was due. Instead, what C was obliged 
to do was to not misrepresent the car to Mr M, or any other prospective buyer.
Now Ive not had sight of the original advert for the car. But Mr M hasnt submitted that the 
advert stated that the car had recently had a cambelt change. So, Im satisfied that the car 
wasnt misrepresented to Mr M by something that was said in the advert. 
However, I note that Mr M submits that by not bringing to his attention, either in the advert or 
verbally, that the cambelt hadnt been changed and a change was due and/or required 
immediately constitutes (by omission) a misrepresentation.
But in my view C only had to advise Mr M that the cambelt hadnt been changed and a 
change was due and/or required immediately if he had made specific enquiries about the 
same. Indeed, when purchasing a car, its for the buyer to familiarise themselves with the 
manufacturers service standards and recommendations (and the cars service history) in 
order that they can make an informed decision about whether it would be prudent to ask 
more questions of the supplying dealership, purchase the car, purchase the car at a discount 
or insist on pre-delivery works being undertaken. And Mr M hasnt submitted that is what he 
did.
I will now go on to consider, despite finding there was no misrepresentation by C, whether 
the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr M.Zopa has provided our service with the independent inspection report it commissioned on 
the car. This report isnt particularly conclusive as to whether the car was of satisfactory 
quality when supplied to Mr M. But what isnt in dispute is that at the time of the cars failure 
Mr M had added 9,500 miles in six months to the odometer.
Now in my view this suggests that more likely than not the car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied to Mr M, because had it not been, I would have expected it to have failed 
substantially sooner than it did, especially given its age, the odometer reading, and the price 
paid.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M, especially given that Zopa 
initially indicated that it felt that C should meet the cost of a repair. But I simply dont have 
any proper basis for directing Zopa to compensate Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman