DRN-2024823
The complaint
Mr P complains that Revolut blocked his account and left him without access to his funds, 
causing him financial difficulties and inconvenience.
To put things right, Mr P wants Revolut to compensate him for the debts and costs he has 
incurred due to its action and for the trouble and upset him and his family experienced.
What happened
Mr P opened his account with Revolut on 25 April 2019, but Revolut blocked the account on 
9 August 2019. Revolut didnt explain why it had done so, and the block stopped Mr P from 
accessing the €4,000 he says he had in his account. Mr P provided Revolut with the 
information it asked about his account activity during the block.
Revolut rejected Mr Ps complaint on 11 October 2019, saying it had acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of Mr Ps account. It then sent a notice to close Mr Ps account 
with immediate effect via his Revolut app on 25 October 2019. On the same day it returned 
the funds that remained in Mr Ps account to the PayPal account they had come from.
Mr P remained unhappy and asked our service to resolve his complaint.
Our investigator explained that Revolut was entitled to block, review and close Mr Ps 
account. And that it didnt have to give Mr P notice or an explanation of its reasons. 
She noted the length of time taken by Revolut to review Mr Ps account but felt this was 
reasonable given the checks it was carrying out.  She also said she was satisfied the 
account was closed correctly and funds returned to where they had originated from - PayPal.  
Mr P remained unhappy: he said he provided Revolut with the information it needed and 
despite this it didnt remove the block and prevented him from accessing his funds.
Mr P said he, and his family were financial impacted and incurring debts and costs as a 
result of not accessing his funds. Mr P also questioned what wouldve happened had the 
funds that were returned been sent to a beneficiary he was no longer in contact with. 
As our investigator could not reach an agreement, Mr P referred the matter to me to issue a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr P is upset. His account was blocked and he had no access to his 
funds while Revolut reviewed his account. But for me to uphold his complaint I would have to 
find that Revolut has done something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain 
why.
account block and access to funds
Im satisfied Revolut acted in accordance with its legal and regulatory obligations 9 August 
2019 when it blocked and was reviewing Mr Ps account. It requested information from Mr P 
to carry its review and then returned the funds in the account to source on 25 October 2019. 
Revolut was entitled to review Mr Ps account under the account terms and conditions and 
request whatever information it needed. After completing its review, it decided to send the 
funds back to where they had come from based on what Mr P had told it. I cant say it acted 
unfairly in doing so.
I understand Mr Ps point of funds being returned to a beneficiary he wasnt in contact with 
anymore. But this didnt happen and I cant make a finding on something that mayve 
happened.
Ive considered whether Revolut couldve completed its review sooner. But based on what 
Ive seen it didnt cause unreasonable delays in its review and completed it as quickly as it 
could.
account closure
I can see the bank issued Mr P with a notice to close his account immediately in line with the 
terms of the them.
A business is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an
account with a business. But before a business closes an account, it must do so in a way, 
which complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account  which both Revolut and Mr P had to comply with 
 say that it could close the account immediately and without notice, under certain
circumstances. Having considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied that 
Revolut acted in accordance with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr Ps account.
In summary, I understand Mr Ps frustration at the situation, and I know he will be
disappointed with the outcome. But, having looked at all of the available evidence, I cant say
that Revolut did anything wrong. So, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman