DRN-4107583
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with how Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) dealt with a claim 
they made under their home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B held a home emergency insurance policy with IPA. On 30 July 2022, they 
contacted IPA to let them know there was an emergency at their home  and so they needed 
assistance. This emergency was a leak from a hot water cylinder.
Mr and Mrs B said there was a delay in IPA organising someone to attend  so they asked 
for help from someone they knew, who turned some valves, so the water in the cylinder 
wasnt topped up  and the water coming through the ceiling below the cylinder was then 
only slight.
Following this, Mr and Mrs B said IPAs appointed representative visited their home to 
investigate the problem. They said the IPA representative looked at the issue and told them 
someone else would be in touch with them, as the situation would need sorting straight 
away. But when Mr and Mrs B contacted IPA the following day, Mr and Mrs B said they were 
then told they would need to get the matter resolved themselves.
Mr and Mrs B said over the next few days the leak became more serious  and an 
emergency plumber they found came out and told them there was a crack in the water 
cylinder, and that it needed to be drained. Mr and Mrs B said the delay in being informed that 
this was the problem meant further water damage was caused to their home  and they 
needed to make a claim under their buildings and contents insurance for the damage to be 
dealt with.
Mr and Mrs B complained to IPA that they werent told of the crack that was present in the 
hot water cylinder. IPA looked into this complaint and provided a different version of events.
IPA said its representative had isolated the leak, but this was a temporary measure. IPA said 
when its representative had attended, they had told Mr and Mrs B that:  
Mr and Mrs B needed to change the water cylinder, as there was a crack in the tank, 
and the replacement of the tank wasnt covered by their home emergency policy.
Despite the temporary repair there was still the possibility of the valve being open 
and causing further leaks. 
Mr and Mrs B reiterated that they werent told this. They said if theyd been told the above, 
they would have dealt with the issue immediately.
Because Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with IPAs handling of their claim, they raised a 
complaint with it. IPA responded to Mr and Mrs Bs concerns. It said it couldnt independently 
verify the conversation between IPAs engineer and Mr and Mrs B, to confirm what Mr and 
Mrs B were told that the time. But that the repair was always a temporary measure, with 
Mr and Mrs B also having needed to seek a permanent repair. IPA said the wording of 
Mr and Mrs Bs policy made it clear that replacement tanks werent covered.
IPA did however say that it didnt attend Mr and Mrs Bs property within their expected 
timeframe for uncontrollable leaks. So, they offered £150 compensation to apologise for the 
distress and inconvenience this delay caused and said this would appear in their bank 
account.
Mr and Mrs B remained dissatisfied with IPAs position on the matter. As they remained 
dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service for an independent review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the £150 offered by IPA is a fair and reasonable resolution to 
this complaint. So, I wont be requiring it to do anything more than this. Ive explained why 
below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly, and not unreasonably decline it. So, 
Ive thought about whether IPA acted in line with these requirements when it dealt with Mr 
and Mrs Bs claim.
Ive also reviewed their policy documentation, to see what their policy covers them for. On 
doing so, I can see policy says that IPA will organise and pay up to £500 per claim, to carry 
out an emergency repair, including on boiler and heating systems. An emergency repair 
being work undertaken by an Authorised Contractor to resolve the Emergency by 
completing a Temporary Repair.
A temporary repair being repairs or work immediately required to stop damage being caused 
by the emergency. It would then be for the policyholder to replace any temporary repair with 
a permanent one.
The policy also explains that it doesnt cover repair or replacement of convector heaters, 
inhibitors, water tanks, radiators, radiator valves and hot water cylinders.
Given the above, Im aware IPA needed to attended Mr and Mrs Bs property and complete a 
temporary repair. But this did not include a repair or replace the hot water cylinder itself. Ive 
thought about whether IPA acted in line with this.
Ive seen a screenshot of the job sheet IPAs representative completed when visiting Mr and 
Mrs Bs property. The job sheet says IPAs representative had isolated the hot water 
cylinder. And this meant Mr and Mrs B didnt have hot water at their home. The job sheet 
also noted that the hot water cylinder wasnt covered for replacement. As the job sheet notes 
a temporary repair was completed by isolating the cylinder, Im satisfied IPA acted in line 
with the terms and condition of the policy here. The policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs B for 
anything else  in terms of a repair or replacement of the cylinder. So, I dont think it would 
be reasonable for me to say IPA did anything wrong in the work it carried out whilst at the 
property.
IPA said it told Mr and Mrs B that isolating the cylinder was a temporary measure and they 
would need to take action to resolve the issue as there was still a possibility of further water 
leaking. And that Mr and Mrs B would need to replacement the cylinder themselves. 
Mr and Mrs B says they werent told this. Its not possible for me to know exactly what was discussed during IPAs visit, given it was a 
face-to-face conversation. So, I cant be sure of exactly what Mr and Mrs B were told during 
the visit. But I think the job sheet, which is contemporaneous evidence, does add weight to 
IPAs version of events  that it told Mr and Mrs B isolation of the cylinder was a temporary 
resolution, with more work required to resolve the problem. 
But, even if I was to accept IPA didnt make this clear during the visit to Mr and Mrs Bs 
home, or that it could have provided Mr and Mrs B with more detail as to the nature of the 
damage to the cylinder, I dont think this means its responsible for further damage to Mr and 
Mrs Bs property. IPA had completed its repair in line with the policy terms, and Mr and Mrs 
B were always going to need to complete a permanent repair to remedy the crack in the 
boiler, which would have taken time to do.
Further to this, Mr and Mrs B have said that when they spoke to IPA the next day, they were 
told they needed to remedy the problem with the cylinder themselves. So, I think 
Mr and Mrs B knew from that point, at the latest, that they needed to take action. Mr and Mrs 
Bs testimony to this service was that within a few days of this conversation the leak had 
become serious, and they needed to get another plumber to attend. But as Mr and Mrs B 
knew that they needed to take further action at that point, I dont hold IPA accountable for 
any damage that happened after. It was for Mr and Mrs B to carry on towards a permanent 
repair. 
IPA has however acknowledged that there was a delay in getting its representative to attend. 
IPA has said that it should have been at Mr and Mrs Bs property within three hours  but 
wasnt. As its accepted there was a delay in attending Mr and Mrs Bs home, I havent 
needed to consider that in more detail. But I have needed to think about what is fair and 
reasonable to compensate for this.
IPA has offered £150 compensation for this delay. I do think thats a fair and reasonable 
level of compensation for the impact the delay would have had on Mr and Mrs B. I say this 
because whilst Mr and Mrs B were able to get someone to help them by turning some valves 
whilst waiting for IPA to attend, the situation would have been inconvenient from them  and 
having to wait for support would have been worrying. Im satisfied the £150 compensation 
recognises that inconvenience and worry. Its my understanding that IPA has already paid 
this to Mr and Mrs B. As Im satisfied this was fair compensation, I dont require them to do 
anything more here.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that the £150 compensation already offered and paid 
by Inter Partner Assistance (IPA) is fair and reasonable. I dont require IPA to do anything 
more than this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman