DRN-4494215
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly declined her 
claim.
What happened
Mrs P bought a travel insurance policy, underwritten by Great Lakes.
She went abroad and required emergency dental treatment. She made a claim to Great 
Lakes but it said her treatment wasnt covered under the terms of her policy. 
Mrs P complained to Great Lakes and unhappy with its response, referred her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and found that Great Lakes hadnt unfairly 
declined the claim. 
Mrs P disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
And so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I have considered everything Mrs P has said in detail. But in my decision, I will only 
focus on what I consider to be key. 
The policy terms say: We will payup to £400 in total for emergency dental 
treatment as long as it is for the immediate relief of pain only, or for emergency 
repairs to dentures, or orthodontic appliances carried out solely to alleviate distress in 
eating. 
Mrs P has provided evidence from the treating dentist which confirms she was not in 
pain and that shed had an emergency repair to a bridge. Great Lakes did consider 
the repair to her bridge and whether it was carried out solely to alleviate distress in 
eating. Great Lakes concluded that the repair didnt alleviate distress in eating as the 
dentist advised her to avoid biting as it was fragile.
Our investigator said that even though Great Lakes considered whether the repair 
alleviated distress in eating, Mrs P wasnt covered under the terms of the policy as 
she had a repair to a bridge and not dentures or an orthodontic appliance.
Having considered the above carefully, I dont think Great Lakes made an error. 
Unfortunately for Mrs P, her dental treatment isnt covered under the terms of the 
policy outlined above as she didnt receive treatment for the immediate relief of pain 
or a repair to dentures or an orthodontic appliance. And even if I accepted that the 
bridge could be considered a denture, there is insufficient evidence to show that she 
had the repair to solely alleviate distress in eating. The evidence shows she wanted a 
temporary repair just before a wedding and until she could return home and see her 
usual dentist. So I cant fairly ask Great Lakes to pay her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman