DRN-1650498
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lloyds Bank PLC, mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a credit card. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mr Hs case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain. 
Lloyds doesnt still have a copy of Mr Hs credit card agreement or other documents from 
1987, the date when its computer records show his credit card was opened. Thats not 
particularly surprising given how long ago this was. Businesses arent required to keep such 
documents over these very long time periods. And Lloyds says it cant be sure when the PPI 
attached to the credit card was sold to Mr H. But it has assumed that this was most likely to 
have been when the card account was first opened. Without further information, I also think 
that this is the most likely date. But I have borne in mind that the PPI could have been sold 
to Mr H by Lloyds at a later date  any time up to February 1995 when Mr H has provided a 
card statement showing a charge being made for PPI.
In circumstance like this, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened, 
based on the very limited and incomplete information now available to me. This includes 
what we know about other credit card PPI sales by Lloyds from around the same time.
Mr H says that, at the time, he was unaware hed been sold PPI and didnt knowingly agree 
to take it. So he thinks it was added to his card account without his knowledge or consent.
This sale took place at least twenty-five years ago and, quite probably, well over thirty years 
ago. And whilst I fully accept that Mr H now has no recollection of agreeing to take out the 
PPI policy, I need to bear in mind that memories of such events do tend to fade over time. 
So I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that Lloyds wrongly applied the PPI to 
Mr Hs card account - without first getting his agreement to do so - based only on Mr H not 
now remembering agreeing to this. On balance, I think its more likely that Lloyds did make it 
clear to Mr H that the PPI policy was optional and that he actively decided to take it knowing 
he could choose not to. But I can understand why he might not remember this now.Lloyds has said it is treating this as an advised sale. And Ive taken this to be the case 
because this means that it needed to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Mr H. I cant 
now know what steps Lloyds took to do this. But from what I know of Mr Hs circumstances 
at around the time this sale is most likely to have taken place, I cant see any reason why the 
policy wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
 
Mr R appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations. Mr H says he doesnt think the policy was suitable for him 
because the nature of his employment at the time meant he wouldnt have been able 
to obtain the full benefits otherwise available to him under the policy. Ive carefully 
studied the terms and conditions of the policy at the time when Mr H is most likely to 
have taken it out, together with what Mr H has said about his employment 
circumstances then. And having done so, I dont think these are likely to have 
precluded Mr H from making a successful claim if he was unable to work because of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment, or to have made this particularly difficult or 
onerous for him. 
 
Mr H says that at the time of the sale he would have had access to some funds held 
within his private company. But he says he wasnt eligible for sick pay and didnt 
have any significant personal savings. And he doesnt appear to have held another 
insurance policy which gave him the same type of cover. So I think he would have 
valued the extra security the policy gave him if things went wrong. And Ive already 
concluded that he chose to take the PPI, so he seems to have wanted this kind of 
protection. The policy would have paid out for up to twelve months if Mr H was 
unable to work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment, and in addition to 
any other means he might have had of making his repayments at the time. It would 
also have given him some life cover. So I still think he would have thought the policy 
was useful to him and worth paying for.
 
Ive no reason to think the PPI policy was unaffordable for Mr H. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs. 
 
Lloyds also needed to ensure that Mr H received enough information about the PPI policy for 
him to decide if it met his needs. I think its likely that the information it gave him could have 
been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr H, I dont think better information would have changed his mind about 
taking it.
So I dont think Mr H has lost out by anything Lloyds may have done wrong when it sold him 
this PPI policy.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr H has said in response to our adjudicators view, but this 
hasnt changed my mind about not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2020.Simon Furse
Ombudsman