DRN-4297885
The complaint
Mr A complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, were unfair to 
report adverse information to his credit file. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr A, but I dont think Tesco Bank have done anything wrong here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
The Information Commissioners Office Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements
and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies says that lenders that supply data to the Credit
Reference Agencies (CRA) are required to ensure that the data is accurate, up to date and
meets agreed quality standards.
That appears to be the case here. The statement issued on 25 April 2023 told Mr A he was 
required to make a payment of £25 by 20 May 2023, but payment wasnt received in time. 
Mr A has explained that he had problems with the app freezing on or around 6 June 2023 
and by the time he was able to view his statement a late fee had been applied and the 
missed payment had been reported to his credit file. But that was after the payment was due 
and wouldnt, therefore, have impacted Mr As ability to pay on time. Tesco Bank have 
confirmed that Mr A had online access to his account and that the email they sent on or 
around 25 April 2023 to tell him his statement was ready to view, was received. It was Mr As 
responsibility to ensure he paid on time, and Im persuaded he was alerted to the fact a 
statement was ready, that he could access that statement online, and that it would be unfair 
to suggest Tesco Bank were responsible for the payment being missed.
The terms of the account explain that credit scores may be impacted if payments are 
missed.
So, I cant say that Tesco Bank were unreasonable to report the missed payment and I dont 
think they need to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman