DRN-2352912
The complaint
 A company which Ill refer to as C complains that it was unable to apply for a loan under 
the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme from Santander UK Plc.
Mr S, who is a director of C, brings the complaint on Cs behalf.
What happened
C was looking to apply for a loan under the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) 
Scheme from Santander in March. But it was unable to submit an application as the banks 
system would only accept applications from companies with up to two directors  and C has 
three.
C raised a complaint. But while Santander apologised for the issue, it said the application for 
a loan under the CBIL Scheme could only cater to businesses with two (or fewer) directors. 
After further attempts, C complained again  but the bank said it still couldnt process Cs 
application, and was awaiting a fix for the issue.
C has now obtained a loan from a different lender, under the Bounce Back Loan (BBL) 
Scheme. But Mr S remains unhappy with how Santander handled things. He says the banks 
actions were deliberate, discriminatory and intended to hinder Cs survival. And he thinks it 
shouldve done more to put forward an alternative solution. 
After the complaint was referred to us, Santander accepted that it couldve handled things 
better. In particular, it said that it couldve communicated things more clearly  and 
confirmed that the reason it couldnt proceed with Cs application was because of its own 
processes, rather than anything to do with the CBIL Scheme itself. But it said the limitations 
of its systems were an unfortunate consequence of needing to develop and launch the 
application process in a very short period of time.
To put things right, Santander has apologised to C and offered £350 to C. It has also put in 
place a Business Banking Manager for C. 
When our investigator reviewed Cs complaint, she thought the banks offer was fair. She 
didnt think the banks actions had been deliberate, though she could see that theyd had an 
adverse impact on C. She thought the £350 already offered was fair compensation for the 
inconvenience C had been put to in trying to get the application moving and ultimately 
having to look somewhere else.   
Mr S didnt think Santanders offer was fair. He didnt think the banks explanation was 
satisfactory and still thought it shouldve done more to help. He didnt think the £350 offered 
was a fair reflection of the stress and inconvenience caused. 
So with no resolution, Cs complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached largely the same conclusions as our investigator and for much 
the same reasons. Ill explain why.
It is accepted that, due to the limitations of Santanders systems, C couldnt apply for a loan 
under the CBIL Scheme because it had more than two directors. That clearly had a 
detrimental impact on C and Mr S is understandably concerned as to why it was the case. 
Santander would clearly ordinarily be able to process loans for companies with three (or 
more) directors.
Weve asked Santander to explain how this problem arose. In short, it says that it was the 
result of the limited time it had to develop and launch the product. To be able to offer loans 
under the CBIL Scheme, it had relied on an existing lending platform which unfortunately 
limited applications to businesses with no more than two directors. I have no reason to doubt 
what the bank has told us in this regard. So while I recognise Mr Ss concern, I dont think its 
actions were deliberate. And I think its put forward an appropriate explanation for what 
happened.
Its also worth noting that Santander wasnt obliged to offer lending under the CBIL Scheme 
 and it had discretion about who it lent to, and on what terms. So although its lending 
platform was imperfect, it was under no obligation to develop a new one.
As Ive said, I appreciate that this left C in a difficult position, and through no fault of its own. 
The fact the problem arose in the first place and the lack of some kind of workaround were 
both far from ideal. But given the limitations of the banks systems, and in view of the 
unprecedented circumstances that it was working under while in the early stages of rolling 
out the CBIL Scheme as quickly and effectively as possible, I dont think theres much more 
it couldve done to resolve the situation. The CBIL Scheme was only launched on 23 March. 
C first complained about these issues two days later, and the bank explained why it couldnt 
proceed with Cs application in its response on the same day. So it looked into things and 
confirmed the position swiftly. It dealt with the subsequent complaint  raised about a week 
later  quickly, and proactively got in touch with C to alert it to the launch of the Bounce Back 
Loan Scheme. And while I recognise this was far from ideal, C was also free to approach 
other lenders for a loan under the CBIL Scheme or for another type of borrowing altogether. 
Nevertheless, C was clearly put to some trouble in its failed attempt to apply for a loan under 
the CBIL Scheme from Santander. I think it was reasonable for Mr S and his fellow director 
to follow up the rejected application and try to find a solution. But I think the £350 that 
Santander has already offered is fair compensation for this.
I know that Mr S doesnt feel this enough. And I appreciate this matter has been stressful for 
him, and his fellow directors. But as our investigator has explained, we cant award 
compensation to the directors for any personal upset theyve suffered. The complaint is 
brought by C  so we can only consider the impact that the banks errors had on it, rather 
than on the directors. And as C is a limited company, it cant suffer distress. 
Mr S has queried how we determine fair compensation. So I should explain that we look at 
the overall impact that the errors had on the complainant, rather than assigning amounts to a 
particular type of error or unit of time. We have a general approach to the level of the awards 
that we make and more information about this can be found on our website. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I think that Santanders offer of £350 is consistent with this 
approach and is in line with what I wouldve directed, had it not already been proposed.  
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already made an offer to pay C compensation of £350 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay C £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman