DRN-2648326
The complaint
Mr G complains that his Premier Life Account (PLA) was changed to a Current Account with 
Travel, Tech and Home packs (CATTH) in 2017 by Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
without his agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator for these reasons.
Barclays is entitled to change the products it offers at any time, this is a commercial decision 
for the bank. So, it didnt do anything wrong in withdrawing the PLA.
In my view its more likely than not that Mr G was made aware of the change of account type 
to the CATTH and the options he was being offered. I say this because he was sent at least 
one correctly addressed letter and two letters were made available to him electronically 
online that explained what was happening.
One month later he was also sent an annual eligibility statement about the CATTH by letter 
to the correct address and available on line which again drew his attention to the new 
account and specifically referred to the impact of not being a UK resident.
Subsequently he was sent a further series of notification letters and eligibility statements. 
Over the time he had the CATTH he couldve downgraded or closed it at any time.
So, I dont think Barclays did anything wrong in changing Mr Gs account from a PLA to the 
CATTH. 
But Barclays did fail to quickly change Mr Gs address on its records in October 2016 and 
this resulted in his first notification letter going to his old address. Barclays has offered to 
refund one months fees due to this and I think that is a reasonable way to resolve the issue.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC must repay the account fee Mr G paid in January 2017 plus 8% 
statutory interest up to the time it is paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold his complaint about the transfer of his account from a 
Premier Life Account to a Current Account with Travel, Tech and Home packs in 2017.
But I do uphold his complaint about the delay in his address being changed in Barclays 
records in October 2016 and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as Ive 
described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman