DRN-3811270
The complaint
Mr D complains Acromas Insurance Company Limited (Acromas) wont pay up to the policy 
limit for motor repairs made on the parts and garage cover of his breakdown policy
.
Other parties have been involved in this complaint, but as Acromas are responsible for it, 
Ive just referred to it in this decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill summarise the key 
points Ive focused on within my decision.
In June 2022, Mr D called his roadside assistance provider. He reported his breakdown was 
at home and there was an unusual noise coming from the vehicle he said he thought it was 
coming from the engine or the gearbox but may be the front or rear drive shaft. 
The mechanic attended Mr Ds vehicle. His report noted the following: Whine noise from 
front diff, drive shaft and oil leak suspect diff area, customer contacting garage and will 
require recovery when able to book in for repair Engine Oil Level Ok. Coolant Level Ok.
When Acromas was validating the claim, it agreed to cover the costs of repairing the prop 
shaft centre bearing but not the oil leaks. Mr D said this wasnt fair as they are related, and 
part and parcel of the same claim and he complained. 
Acromas has said as per its policy terms and conditions the oil leaks were secondary issues 
and were not the cause of the breakdown that Mr D called his breakdown provider for. It said 
the mechanic had identified the leaks when attending the vehicle but did not advise that they 
were connected to the noise that Mr D was hearing. 
In addition Acromas has said when it called the garage to discuss the diagnosis and repairs 
and it told the garage it wouldnt cover the leaks unless related to the original fault, the 
garage didnt dispute this or correct it to say they were related.   
So, Mr D brought his complaint to this service. An investigator reviewed his complaint and 
didnt uphold it. Mr D doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed Acromass actions to decide whether it has done enough to decline Mr Ds 
claim fairly and reasonably in line with the available evidence, taking into account the terms 
and conditions of the policy. 
I think its helpful to explain that, if Im satisfied the policy terms have been applied fairly then 
I wont be recommending Acromas pay Mr Ds claim. Mr Ds policy says that if certain criteria 
are met then Acromas will contribute up to £535 toward the cost of repairing his car following 
a breakdown. 
The policy defines a breakdown as: 
A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle: 
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure; and 
b) which has been attended under Your breakdown membership; and 
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely; 
and 
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be 
resumed or, when At Home (Home Start) cover is held under Your breakdown membership, 
commenced. 
And there are things the policy doesn't cover, which includes: 
any faults identified by, or reported to, the mobile mechanic, appointed garage agent, or 
Your repairing garage, which did not cause the initial Breakdown. 
 
So, the policy will cover a contribution towards repairing the cause of the initial breakdown 
where a breakdown mechanic attended, but it wont provide cover for anything else that 
might arise or be identified afterwards. Im satisfied this is fair as vehicles can often have 
several things wrong, but they dont necessarily cause it to break down. 
Acromas declined Mr Ds claim for the oil leaks on that basis. That is because the oil leak 
issue wasn't identified as the cause of the initial breakdown. So, Acromas decided the policy 
didn't cover it. Mr D says it is all part and parcel of the one claim. Ive looked at the available 
evidence to decide if Acromas decision was fair. 
Mr D made no mention of the oil leak at the time of the call to the breakdown service but 
pointed it out to the mechanic when he arrived. But Acromas says the call out was for the 
noise problem only which turned out to be the prop shaft centre bearing. It says the oil leaks 
are a separate issue, and only came to light when the mechanic attended. The mechanic 
had also noted in his report that he identified an oil leak in a suspected different area to that 
which was making the noise. I also note the garage didnt dispute that Acromas were 
treating the leaks as separate issues. I am therefore satisfied that the expert evidence 
supports the oil leak doesnt form part of the claim and falls outside of the terms of the policy. 
This is a breakdown repair cover, not a warranty or servicing cover. It is clear from the calls 
Ive listened to that Mr D said he first noted the noise on his vehicle over a week earlier and 
knowingly continued to drive the vehicle until it got worse. 
Page 9 of the terms and conditions, defines a breakdown as a sudden or unexpected event 
involving the nominated vehicle that has prevented it from starting or continuing its journey 
safely. I also note page 12 confirms that the policy will not cover b) faults which (you) were 
aware of prior to the start of your journey on which the breakdown occurred. In addition to 
this the policy also wont cover if (you) referred the failure to a garage before you called for 
assistance 
Mr D said on his initial call to his roadside provider that it was on previous instruction from 
the garage that he continued to drive it. The policy doesnt cover the cost of repairing further damage if you continue to drive the 
nominated vehicle after a fault has developed.  
So, based on all that Ive seen, Im satisfied that Acromas has fairly applied the policy terms 
when it declined to cover the oil leaks. And I therefore wont be asking Acromas to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman