DRN-4445192
The complaint
Miss D complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct do enough to protect her 
from the financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the 
money once shed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Miss D met someone on a dating site, who Ill refer to as the scammer. The scammer told 
her he was based in the UK and after a few days they began to communicate via WhatsApp. 
The scammer seemed genuinely interested, and they exchange messages and occasional 
voice-notes.
The scammer mentioned early on that he invested in cryptocurrency and after a couple of 
weeks, he encouraged Miss D to invest. She was interested because she knew of people 
who had made a significant amount of money and she believed he was an experienced and 
professional investor.
The scammer explained that everything was done through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company and that he traded through a platform which was affiliated with the exchange, 
which Ill refer to as C. Miss D researched the cryptocurrency exchange company, noting 
positive reviews. She also looked it up on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register 
and found it was regulated. She didnt realise C wasnt a part of the cryptocurrency 
exchange.
The scammer told her to first purchase cryptocurrency through the cryptocurrency exchange 
company and then load it onto an online wallet. Between 7 July 2022 and 12 July 2022, she 
made four payments totalling £36,000 from her HSBC account.
She started with an initial investment of £1,000. The second payment of £5,000 was blocked 
and during the call she said she was investing in cryptocurrency and her partner had helped 
her with the checks. She was asked if shed been promised significantly high returns and 
she said it it depends how the numbers work. She also said the funds go into the app and 
were transferred across to the investors. She was asked if anyone had access to her wallet 
and she said no and that the investment didnt involve anybody else. She was then given a 
scam warning and the payment was released.
Miss D could see her profits increasing on the trading platform so looked to make a 
withdrawal of £1,350, which she managed to do successfully. She then made two further 
payments of £15,000 each, which involved calls with HSBC on 11 July 2022 and 12 July 
2022.
Miss D realised she was the victim of a scam when she tried to make a further withdrawal 
and was told she would have to pay 20% tax. She contacted the cryptocurrency exchange 
company who asked whether anyone else was helping her with the investment, at which 
point she realised she was the victim of a scam.
Miss D complained to HSBC, but it said it was unable to refund the money shed lost as the 
payments were to an account she held in her own name. It explained that three of the 
payments were held for fraud checks and she had told it she had full access to the 
investment, and shed checked investment was genuine. She also said she hadnt been 
asked to make the investment and was acting of her own free will. It said it gave her 
information regarding the risk of scams and that it wouldnt be liable for any losses.
Miss D wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative, who explained Miss D had little to no knowledge of cryptocurrency and had 
simply followed instructions given to her by the scammer. They said this type of scam has 
been incredibly prevalent and HSBC would have known how the scam operated.
They argued the transactions were out of character and before the scam Miss D made small 
transactions for everyday spending and she had sent almost her entire account balance to a 
cryptocurrency provider that HSBC should have known was popular with fraudsters. She 
also transferred funds from other accounts before transferring it straight out, having never 
sent funds to cryptocurrency merchants before. The representative said this constituted a 
sudden and drastic change in the operation of the account and was financial activity that 
matched a known fraud risk.
The representative further explained that Miss D had made it clear the investing was done 
off the back of a relationship with someone else and it failed to conduct in depth questioning 
to properly understand why she was investing and how the third party was involved in her 
investments. They said that if Miss D had been properly questioned, shed have fully 
explained she was sending money to C and that the investment was being managed by 
someone shed met online. With this information, HSBC should have recognised C wasnt 
affiliated with the cryptocurrency exchange and the fact Miss D met the third party online 
matched an extremely common type of investment scam.
HSBC said it supplied an effective warning and advised Miss D to seek advice from a 
financial adviser when she made the first payment. It said she told it she hadnt been 
contacted by a third party and was making the payments of her own volition. It said shed 
been promised unrealistic returns and the fact she transferred the funds to an account in her 
own name meant there was no reason for it to consider offering a refund.
My provisional findings
I was satisfied Miss D authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of his bank account, Miss D is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).I carefully considered the circumstances, and I was persuaded Miss D was the victim of a 
scam. But, although she didnt intend her money to go to scammers, she did authorise the 
disputed payments. I explained HSBC is expected to process payments and withdrawals 
that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a 
scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though 
they authorised the payment.
Prevention
I thought about whether HSBC did enough to prevent the scam from occurring altogether. 
Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Id seen, the payments 
were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, HSBC had an 
obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I 
needed to consider whether it did enough to warn Miss D when she tried to make the 
payments.
Miss D had tried to pay £5,000 to the cryptocurrency exchange on 11 July 2022 and the 
payment was flagged for further checks. I listened to the call, and I was satisfied she was 
open about the fact she was investing in cryptocurrency. I noted her answer about the 
returns was equivocal, but as she didnt say shed been promised unrealistic returns, I didnt 
think the call handler needed to ask further questions. She also mentioned her partner in the 
context of whether shed done any checks, and I didnt think further questioning was 
necessary there either.
However, Miss D told the call handler the cryptocurrency would be transferred from the 
exchange company to an investor and at this point I thought the call handler ought to have 
realised there was a problem and questioned her about the onwards payment. I explained 
most cryptocurrency scams involve the transfer of funds from legitimate cryptocurrency 
accounts to wallets under the scammers control, and by the time this call took place, the call 
handler should have known this and acted on the information as it arose during the call.
I said I would expect the call handler to have asked some very robust questions to establish 
how and why Miss D planned to transfer money from her cryptocurrency wallet and to warn 
her that an onward payment was a clear red flag which strongly indicated the investment 
was a scam. I said I also expected the call handler to have explained that this was a 
common method used by fraudsters, and to have made it very clear that she shouldnt go 
ahead with the payment.
Had it done this, I thought Miss D would most likely have disclosed the fact shed met 
someone online who had instructed her to move the cryptocurrency to C, which she 
understood was affiliated with the cryptocurrency exchange. This information would have 
further assisted HSBC to identify this was a scam and would have led Miss D to think twice 
about going ahead with the payments.
I hadnt seen any evidence that Miss D was keen to take risks with her money and from the 
evidence Id seen, I didnt think she was completely under the spell of the scammer to the 
extent that shed have gone ahead in the fact of a very strong warning from HSBC that the 
investment was probably a scam. I accepted the scammer would have tried to change her 
mind and given her a plausible explanation as to why she needed to make the onward 
payment, but, she had never met this person and I thought she would reasonably have 
questioned why he told her the investor was affiliated with the cryptocurrency exchange 
company when in fact it wasnt. And I thought that if she had an inkling this was a scam, 
shed have decided not to go ahead with the payments.Because of this, I thought HSBC failed to do enough in circumstances which might have 
prevented Miss Ds loss. Consequently, I was minded to direct it to refund the money she 
lost from 11 July 2022 onwards.
Contributory negligence
I explained theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions and conduct suitable due diligence but, in the circumstances, I didnt think Miss D 
was to blame for the fact she didnt foresee the risk.
I explained Miss D hadnt invested in cryptocurrency before and so this was an area with 
which she was unfamiliar, so she wouldnt have known the onward payment from the 
cryptocurrency exchange was a red flag or that it wasnt affiliated with C. This unfamiliarity 
was compounded by the sophisticated nature of the scam and the fact she trusted the 
scammer, even though theyd never actually met. So, I didnt think she could fairly be held 
responsible for her own loss.
Developments
HSBC has commented that Miss D said she hadnt been contacted by a third party and was 
investing on her own. She mentioned that her partner also invests but she didnt refer to the 
fact shed met him on a dating site, or that hed encouraged her to invest and had she done 
so, it would have asked more questions.
It also asked if shed checked the FCA website for cloned investment sites and she said she 
had and was satisfied shed completed all the relevant checks, which wouldve adequately 
provided reassurance that the investment was genuine.
It accepts she told it the funds were being transferred from the cryptocurrency exchange 
company and then on to the investors and that it should have asked detailed questions 
about that. However, the previous advice it gave about checking the FCA website included 
checking it for any so-called investors if she was moving funds from the cryptocurrency 
exchange.
In response to my observations about Miss Ds comment about sending money on to 
investors, it has said it made a clear statement about the actions of criminals, and that 
scams often involve positive fake testimonials. It also reiterated that she should always 
check where she is sending money and that she said she was happy the payment was 
genuine and was adamant she wanted it to release the payment. 
Finally, HSBC has argued that Miss D would have proceeded in any event and, but if it is 
required to provide a refund, the settlement should be reduced by 50% for contributory 
negligence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the additional comments HSBC has made in response to my 
provisional decision. I accept Miss D didnt tell the call handler shed met the partner on a 
dating site and as I said in my provisional decision, I didnt think further questioning was 
necessary. I also accept that during the first call she said the investment didnt involve 
anyone else when in fact she was being advised in the background by the scammer. 
However, I dont consider this was untruthful because she did mention that she was being assisted by her partner, and I wouldnt expect her to volunteer how they met or how long 
theyd known each other unless specifically asked.
HSBC has said Miss D told it shed checked the FCA website and that she was satisfied 
shed completed the relevant checks. But this is because she checked the cryptocurrency 
exchange in the mistaken belief that it was affiliated with C. And while I accept she was told 
she should check where she was sending money, HSBC didnt say anything which might 
reasonably have alerted her to the fact she hadnt done enough checks.
As I said in my provisional decision, Miss D told the call handler the cryptocurrency would be 
transferred from the exchange company to an investor and I maintain that HSBCs failure to 
question her about the onwards payment represented a clear missed opportunity to uncover 
the fact that she mistakenly thought C was affiliated with the cryptocurrency exchange and to 
explain that most cryptocurrency scams involve the transfer of funds from legitimate 
cryptocurrency accounts to wallets under the scammers control. And I maintain this was a 
missed opportunity to have uncovered the scam.
HSBC has also said Miss D had checked the FCA register and was under the impression the 
investment was genuine, so a warning wouldnt have made a difference. But I dont think she 
was completely under the spell of the scammer to the extent that shed have gone ahead in 
the face of a very strong warning from HSBC that the investment was probably a scam. It 
has said she was under the impression the investment was genuine because shed checked 
the FCA register, but if HSBC had taken the opportunity to ask more questions and provide a 
relevant warning, shed have realised she hadnt done the proper checks and, ultimately 
realised this was a scam.
Contributory negligence
HSBC has also said the settlement should be reduced for contributory negligence. As Ive 
explained above, I dont accept Miss R was untruthful about the existence of a third party 
because she did state her partner was helping her. And while I accept HSBC could have 
helped her more if it had known shed met the partner on a dating site, I wouldnt reasonably 
have expected her to have volunteered how long shed known him or how they met without 
having been asked for the information by the call handler. 
So, even though Miss D was acting on advice from someone she met online, I think this was 
a sophisticated scam and she went ahead with the payments in the belief that shed done 
appropriate due diligence. And while I accept she could have been clearer in her responses, 
Im satisfied she told HSBC she was being helped by her partner and that she planned to 
make an onward payment from a cryptocurrency exchange, and in these circumstances I 
dont think this is a case whether it would be appropriate to reduce the settlement for 
contributory negligence.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct should: 
refund £35,000.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as First Direct deducts tax in relation to the interest element of 
this award it should provide Miss D with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman