DRN-4256065
The complaint
Q, a business represented by Ms T, complains Santander UK Plc lost documents.
What happened
Q held an account at Santander and although there was a credit balance on the account it 
hadnt been used for some time. Santander blocked the account because it hadnt been 
used for over a year, and sent a letter to confirm this.
Ms T visited a branch, around a year after the account had been blocked to reactivate it. 
Ms T took in her identification, a passport and driving licence. Santander took copies of the 
identification, to be sent off to the relevant department to reactivate the account.
Qs account wasnt reactivated. When Ms T queried this, Santander said it hadnt received 
any identification. Santander said Ms T could revisit a branch, but she decided to send the 
identification in by registered post.
Ms T was very worried about the risk of identity theft, because copies of her identification 
had gone missing. Ms T said shed be getting new identification. Santander paid Ms T £30 
so she could register with a fraud protection agency.
Unhappy with this, Ms T wrote in again. Santander sent a second response where it said it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong in making Qs account dormant and blocking it.
Santander also said it had now located the identification Ms T took to the branch. But 
Santander accepted it shouldnt have mislaid Ms Ts identification and should have carried 
out a better search for it when Ms T first contacted it.
Santander offered to cover the cost of a new passport and driving licence, £85 and £20 
respectively and offered £250 to compensate Ms T for the distress mislaying her 
identification had caused.
Ms T didnt think was a fair outcome, and she said someone had fraudulently opened an 
account in Qs name, and this could only have been done using the form and identification 
Ms T handed into Santander.
Ms T brought her complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. The 
investigator didnt initially think Ms Ts complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator thought Santander hadnt made an error in making Qs account dormant, 
but Santander shouldnt have mislaid Ms Ts identification and should have reactivated Qs 
account. 
But, overall, the investigator thought the £250 Santander had offered, along with covering 
the cost for new identification, was fair.
Ms T felt this wasnt fair, as she was still waiting for the issues with the fraudulent account to 
be sorted. Ms T wanted to know who had access to her identification and felt Santander had 
covered up the loss, and fraudulent use, of her identification.
Ms T said she was now suspicious of everyone. Ms T said only she knew the details of Q 
and lost her identification two or three weeks before the fraudulent account was opened, so 
it must be Santanders fault.
Ms T also said she hadnt received the closing balance of Qs account.
The investigator thought it was unfair Q still didnt have its money, and it took some time for 
Santander to send the payment to Q. The investigator felt a further £200 to compensate for 
this delay was fair and both Ms T and Santander agreed.
But Ms T still felt her initial concerns werent resolved and asked for an ombudsman to 
decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms T and Santander agreed on the outcome around the delayed payment to Q, so I wont be 
deciding anything relating to this.
I think Santander was reasonable in applying a block to Qs account. The account hadnt 
been used for some time, and Im satisfied Santander wrote to Ms T, at the correct address, 
to notify her of the block.
Ms T has said not having access to the account affected Qs ability to trade. But Qs account 
hadnt been used for a year, and it was almost another year before Ms T tried to access Qs 
account. 
Since Qs account hadnt been used for almost two years, I think it was unlikely Q was 
trading during this period. There was also a relatively small balance on Qs account, so I 
dont agree the block caused a loss to Q.
But theres no dispute Santander mislaid Ms Ts identification when she tried to reactivate 
Qs account. Santanders said the identification was locked away securely in branch, rather 
than being sent to the relevant department to reactivate Qs account.
Ms T says she thinks someone in Santander stole her details to open an account in Qs 
name. I havent seen anything to show this happened, although I realise it would be difficult 
for Ms T to prove this.
Where information or evidence is incomplete, or contradictory, I can decide things on the 
balance of probabilities  whats more likely to have happened.
In the circumstances, I dont think on balance someone in Santander stole, or used Ms Ts 
identification fraudulently. Santander found the identification and form after Ms Ts second 
complaint. I think its unlikely someone would take the identification copies then return them.
I think its more likely someone would simply steal the copies, meaning Santander would 
never have found them again. Santanders sent in copies of the identification it found, Im satisfied it found the documents.
Ms T has said no one else knew about Q as it wasnt trading. But Ms T also mentioned other 
people helping her set the business up. I think more people know about Q.
Whilst Im not saying any of these people could have taken Ms Ts details, this does mean it 
wasnt just Santander with knowledge of Q.
So I dont think I can fairly hold Santander liable for the fraudulent opening of another 
account in Qs name. I cant see theres any evidence to suggest the leak of details could 
only have come from Santander.
Ms Ts said shed like details of where the identification was held and who had access. In the 
circumstances, I dont think Santander needs to do this. Santanders explained the 
identification copies were kept secure in branch, and I think this is very likely to be true.
And I dont think it would be possible to say who had access. And since I dont think theres 
any evidence to suggest a Santander employee took the identification, I dont think it would 
be fair for Santander to tell Ms T the names of any its employees.
The mislaying of the identification caused Ms T some considerable distress and extra costs. 
I think Ms T acted quite reasonably in cancelling her passport and driving licence, and 
Santander has offered to compensate for the cost of this, and that seems fair.
Santander also paid Ms T £30 to pay for a fraud prevention marker to be added, and again 
this seems fair.
And Santanders offered a further £250 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience 
the mislaying of the identification caused. Ms T made a wasted journey to branch, and paid 
for recorded delivery later on.
And Ms T had some understandable worry about what might happen to her identification. 
If I thought I could fairly hold Santander responsible for the fraudulent opening of another 
account, I would likely increase the compensation. So, I understand why Ms T feels the £250 
isnt enough.
But since I cant find any evidence, on balance, to hold Santander responsible for the 
fraudulent opening of another account, I think the £250 offer Santanders made is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Santander should:
pay Ms T £85 to compensate for the cost of a replacement passport
pay Ms T £20 to compensate for the cost of a replacement driving licence
pay Ms T £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T, on behalf of 
Q, to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman