DRN-1840119
The complaint
Mr A complains about the valuation esure Insurance Limited placed on his car under his 
motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy that it deducted £370 for pre-accident damage 
when his car was deemed a total loss. 
What happened
Mr As car was deemed to be a total loss and esure eventually offered him £11,370, less the 
policy excess, in settlement of his claim. But Mr A thought the car was worth more as hed 
bought it for £12,500 last year. He also didnt understand why esure had also deducted £370 
from his settlement for pre-accident damage.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought esures 
valuation of the car was fair and reasonable as it was made correctly according to our 
approach. And he thought Mr A agreed that there had been pre-accident damage and esure 
had correctly deducted half the cost of this from the settlement. He thought esure had told 
Mr A about this deduction in phone calls before he received written notification of it.
Mr A replied that hed received emails where the deduction wasnt included. He thought the 
repair estimate was inflated. He thought he should get the full valuation as the car was a 
complete write-off. Mr A asked for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A was concerned about the valuation esure offered for his car. The investigator has 
explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars but 
look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our investigator thought esures valuation, prior to any deductions, was fair and reasonable. 
So Ive checked how he came to this conclusion. I can see that he looked for Mr As car in 
the four trade guides we use with the right make, model, age, mileage and condition at the 
date of its loss. 
I think that was correctly done according to our approach. He found that esure had offered 
Mr A the highest of the guides valuations. I think that was fair and reasonable as wed 
usually expect an insurer to offer an average of the guides valuations. So I cant say that 
esure needs to increase its valuation.
esure had initially offered a lower valuation but it increased this when Mr A challenged it. I 
dont think this is unusual. I think insurers will often review a valuation if a consumer thinks 
its too low. But Mr A thinks thats when esure made the deduction for pre-existing damage. 
And he suspects this was to bring the settlement down to its previous offer. But I disagree. 
Ill now explain why I think this. 
I can see that the engineers report on the damage to Mr As car noted the pre-existing 
damage. Mr A said he intended to have it repaired. The engineers estimate for its repair was 
£740 and so esure said it would make a deduction from the settlement of £370. Mr A thought 
the repairs estimate was too high. But Ive not seen any expert engineering evidence to 
challenge esures engineers estimate. So I cant say it was unreasonable for esure to rely 
on this. 
Mr A thought there shouldnt be any deduction for the pre-existing damage because his car 
was a write-off. I can understand why he thinks this. But esure is required by his policy to 
pay him the market value of his car at its time of loss. This would be less if the car had 
damage. So we think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to deduct half the cost of pre-
existing damage from its settlement. 
Ive looked at the emails esure sent Mr A about the settlement and the calls between them. I 
think esure told Mr A in its first call about the valuation that there would be a deduction for 
pre-existing damage. It then confirmed the amount in a second call. The engineer and Mr A 
were debating the valuation of the car. And as this changed the engineer updated esures 
system and it sent Mr A automatic emails about the valuation. These didnt then include the 
deduction for pre-existing damage. 
But I think it was made clear to Mr A that there would be a deduction, and this was then 
confirmed in a subsequent email. So, even thought Mr A received some emails that didnt 
specify this, I cant say that esure has done anything wrong or shouldnt apply the deduction.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman