DRN-2663364
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has both
undervalued her vehicle and imposed a proportional settlement of this valuation following a
total loss claim when her van was deemed a write-off after an accident.
What happened
Mrs G was involved in an accident and her van was written off. Admiral initially made an
offer of around £8,000 for the van, which Mrs G didnt accept. Admiral then revised its offer
and offered Mrs G £9,675. But Mrs G remained unsatisfied.
However, when Admiral inspected the van it came to light that the back windows were tinted.
Admiral says it hadnt been made aware of this modification, and if it had known the windows
were tinted, it wouldve asked for an additional premium. Admiral has calculated that Mrs G
has only paid 94.79% of her premium, so its only prepared to offer Mrs G a pro-rata
settlement of the valuation its placed on her van, which amounts to £9,171.50.
But Mrs G doesnt agree that the tinted windows warrant a higher premium. She wants
Admiral to pay 100% of the amount she thinks the van is worth. Shes provided a Parkers
valuation of £11,205 and she says she paid over £12,000 for the van less than 12 months
previously. She believes the correct pre-accident value is £11,400.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this case in January 2021. That provisional 
decision is below and forms part of my final decision. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Type of insurance
The Certificate of Insurance attached to this file shows that Mrs G had a comprehensive van
insurance policy with Admiral which covers her for social, domestic and pleasure purposes
only. The notes on the file show that Mrs G is not registered for VAT payment purposes and
shes confirmed that she didnt claim VAT back on the purchase of this van. This is a private
van insurance policy, and not a commercial van insurance policy.
Van valuation
Mrs G is unhappy with the valuation that Admiral has placed on her van. Our approach is to
consider whether Admiral has settled Mrs Gs claim in line with the terms and conditions of
her policy, fairly and reasonably. So, I have considered the terms of the policy and the offer
made in order to determine whether Admiral have acted fairly. I can see that in the event the
van cant be repaired, Admiral wont pay more than the market value of the van at the time of
the loss.
Market Value is defined as The cost of replacing your vehicle, with one of a similar make,
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of the loss. Use of
the term market in which you would normally shop for a vehicle e.g. Retail value, will not
apply if you bought your vehicle privately or at an auction. Non-European manufactured
vehicles will be valued based on European import values or the nearest British equivalent.
Our usual approach to complaints about car or van valuations is to look at motor trade
guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations
are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised
and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be.
This takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the
mileage. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its
reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. We wouldnt normally place as much weight on
adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. Differences in mileage or year of registration
can significantly affect value, and sometimes the vehicle actually ends up selling for a lower
price than advertised. Adverts may be helpful if the complaint involves a classic or rare
model. Or if they strongly indicate that the guides could be wrong.
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mrs Gs van at the time of the incident
and they produced the following valuations: CAP £7,325; Glasss £8,063 and Cazana
£11,164. However, as this is a van, valuations are exclusive of VAT. So, once VAT is
included the actual valuations are as follows CAP £8,790, Glasss £9,675 and Cazana
£13,396.
Admiral has used the Glasss valuation of £9,675.60 as the basis for its offer. And looking at
the three guide prices together our approach would be to say this is fair as normally we
might think its reasonable to ignore any outlying valuation. But having looked at everything
and in particular the valuations provided by Mrs G, I don't think the outlying Cazana
valuation should be discounted entirely. The reality is that the Cazana valuation is actually
closer to the Parkers valuation that Mrs G has provided, and its closer to the valuation
provided to Mrs G by the selling garage. But crucially, the Cazana valuation also provides us
with details of similar specification vehicles sold around the time of the valuation. And from
this information I can see that mileage on this make and model of vehicle has a big impact
on price. Similar vehicles sold at higher mileage of 70,000 to 80,000 miles are selling for the
same price as the Glass or CAP valuation. But importantly similar specification vehicles with
25,000 to 35,000 miles are selling and have sold for prices closer to the £11,000 mark.
So, because of this I don't agree that we can approach this as we usually would. In this case
I'm inclined to merge our approaches to get to a fair valuation. We have a number of
valuations provided by both parties, and I think we need to take a pragmatic view of all the
valuations and not discount any of them. I think the range of valuations provided overall
show how difficult it is to pinpoint the exact price for this vehicle. The criteria that drive the
price are so varied, and some very specific criteria such as age, mileage, or additional extras
play a big part in determining the price. Because of this it makes sense to rely on the guides
and use the data provided within them to get to a fair valuation
So, with that in mind I think the correct approach would be to include the Cazana valuation
and the Parkers valuation and take all four guides into account. The average of the four
guides is approximately £10,800.00. And I think, given what I've seen in this file, this
would be a fairer pre-accident valuation for this vehicle.Misrepresentation
Admiral has reduced its valuation and only offered to pay a proportional amount of this
because it says that Mrs G made a qualifying misrepresentation under the Consumer
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Mrs G says that she had the back windows of her van professionally tinted for her dogs
comfort. She says she did this after renewal, and she doesnt agree that this is a
modification that needs to be notified to Admiral.
However, Admiral disagrees. It says that tinting the back windows is a change which is
material to the risk it is insuring. It says the modification would impact visibility both into and
out of the vehicle and as is such something it would rate upon. Admiral says its a
requirement of the policy to notify it of any modifications, as it cant always offer cover.
Admiral has pointed to the section in the policy called keeping your policy up to date which
it says specifically states that consumers need to disclose modifications (as defined in the
policy terms and conditions), before the modification is made, and sets out the
consequences of not doing so.
Admiral says that a qualifying mis-representation can be made both when the policy is
entered into, and during the policy term. Its quoted from CIDRA which says An insurer has a
remedy against a consumer for a misrepresentation made by the consumer before a
consumer insurance contract was entered into or varied
So, Ive looked into whether CIDRA applies if a consumer fails to notify the insurer of a
change in their details or the details of the item insured during the policy term.
The Law Commission report which led to CIDRA states that:
5.62 Under the current law, if a party has stated a material fact that was true at the time, but
ceases to be true before the contract has been made, they must correct the statement. A
similar principle would apply if someone says something in good faith, and then discovers
the statement is wrong. However, once the contract has been made, the duty to disclose
ends. There is no general or statutory obligation on the policyholder to inform the insurer of a
change of circumstances. If an insurer wants to be notified about changing circumstances, it
must add an express term to the policy. Such a term would be subject to review under the
Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999.
5.63 In the consultation paper we proposed to retain the current law. If a consumer
becomes aware before a contract has been formed that a statement on a proposal is untrue,
the consumer should take reasonable care to correct the mistake. However, this duty
ceases after the contract has been entered into. At that point any requirement to provide
information must be based on a policy term.
The report can be used as an aid to interpretation of CIDRA, if the meaning is unclear.
Admiral has said Mrs G was varying the contract when she modified her van. And because
of this Admiral thinks CIDRA applies and it can follow the remedies CIDRA sets out it can
when settling her claim. But I dont believe she was. A variation would be something like Mrs
G deciding that she wanted cover for driving in the EU or a lower excess. And a variation
would need the agreement of both parties involved in the contract. Not just one party making
a change unilaterally like what happened here. The addition of tinted windows may have
varied the risk which Mrs G posed, but this does not mean that the contract itself was varied.
I therefore dont think there was a qualifying mis-representation under CIDRA. Mrs G wasnt
under any duty under the act to disclose the changes she made to her van, as they weremade after the policy began and the contract was made.
The policy wording
But, as per the policy terms and conditions under the heading keeping your policy up to
date I can see that Admiral want to know about modifications, and it does say it will
calculate any difference in premium, if cover continues.
There is no general duty to inform the insurer of changes to the risk while the contract is in
force. However, it is clear in the policy that Admiral want to know about changes to the risk.
So, while there not be a general duty for Mrs G to disclose any changes of risk, there is a
contractual obligation.
In the policy Admiral says it wants to know about any modifications to the van. And it does
define modifications as; Any changes to your vehicles standard specification, including
accessories and additional parts; optional extras and aftermarket alterations; trade related
changes and parts. These include, but are not restricted to, cosmetic and/or performance
changes or changes related to your business or profession. I appreciate Admiral sees the
tinting of the back windows as a significant rating factor and a fundamental change in risk.
But I dont think it is. And whilst I understand that Admirals statistics may well show that
certain modifications are a greater risk to it, I dont think in this particular instance Mrs G
considered that tinting the back windows on this van was a modification that would increase
the risk of a claim. Admiral has said it would impact visibility. But this particular van can
come with or without a back window, so I dont believe tinting the back window of the model
that comes with a back window would increase the risk. Further to this the van comes with
parking sensors as standard to assist when parking. So, I cant really see that just because
Mrs G tinted the windows, she would suddenly become more likely to make a claim.
Because of this, I dont think it was something she needed to tell Admiral about as it wasnt a
substantial change to the risk.
And so it follows that I dont think its fair for Admiral to proportionally settle Mrs Gs claim or
to charge her an additional premium. When Mrs G took out her policy, she was charged a
premium which Admiral felt was reflective of the risk it was taking on for her. In other words,
the likelihood of it having to pay a claim. I think its reasonable for Mrs G to have expected
the years premium to remain the same, unless she made a significant or fundamental
change to the circumstances that shed asked Admiral to insure, such as changing her van
or her address. In this case its still Mrs G whos insured and its still the same van kept at
the same address. Admiral asked Mrs G questions and made an assessment of the risk that
shed have an accident, when she took out the policy. As long as all of that information was
correct at the time, its agreed a price to cover her for a year.
I do understand Admirals position, and that it felt the cosmetic change to the van increased
the likelihood of it having to pay a claim. But I think theres an acceptance amongst insurers,
and their customers, that normal life means that things might change during a policy year,
and I dont think its fair for each and every change to lead to a different premium. If that
were the case, insurers could charge extra, or have to offer refunds, when anything about
the consumer changed mid-term. Incidents or motoring offences picked up during the term
will all affect an insurers view of risk. But they dont generally affect the premium until
renewal. And in addition to having some certainty about how much theyll be charged for a
policy year, its fairer for any changes to apply at renewal because at that point the
consumer has free choice to shop around. The consumer doesnt always have that free
choice mid-term, because they might incur cancellation charges or lose out in accruing any
no claim discount entitlement. So, I think its fair in this case for the cosmetic change Mrs G
made to the van to be treated in the same way.Conclusion
So, Im planning on recommending that Admiral increases its pre-accident value on this
vehicle in line with what Ive set out above £10,800. And as Mrs G didnt make a qualifying
mis-representation under CIDRA by tinting the windows mid-term, CIDRAs remedies dont
apply here. So, a proportional settlement of the increased market value isnt appropriate.
Further to this, even though Admiral do ask to be told about modifications, I wouldnt
consider the tinting of the windows such a fundamental change in risk that it would need to
be notified mid-term. So, it follows that an additional premium isnt due, and as such Admiral
should pay Mrs G the full market value of her van as set out above, less the excess only.
Im also conscious that Mrs G suffered inconvenience because of Admirals actions. She had
to use an overdraft facility to purchase a new car, and I know she also had to hire a car for a
period of time. So, I agree with our investigator and Im recommending that Admiral pay
Mrs G £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by not settling the claim in full.
Mrs G has confirmed shes received my provisional decision and has nothing further to add. 
Admiral hasnt responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Admiral hasnt responded, and Mrs G has nothing further to add, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
Admiral needs to pay Mrs G £10,800, less her excess, for the total loss of her van. 8% 
simple interest should be added to any monies not already paid, from the date the claim was 
made. Admiral should also pay Mrs G £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is to uphold 
this complaint.
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs G £10,800 (less excess) with 
interest and £200 in compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021. 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman