DRN-2789996
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with how Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) applied 
the end of contract charges following the return of her car. 
  
What happened
In April 2017, Ms M entered into a 36 month hire agreement with MBFS for a new car. 
When the hire agreement was due to come to an end, it was agreed it would be extended for 
three months due to Covid. The car was returned in August 2020. As part of their return 
process, MBFS inspected and appraised the car in line with their vehicle return standards. 
They said damage was found to the four wheels and they charged £340 (£85 per wheel).
They also said the car was returned late and Ms M had exceeded the mileage permitted by 
the agreement, she was also charged around £161 and £1,294 respectively. In September 
2020, MBFS sent her an invoice for approximately £1,795 which she was required to pay.
Ms M contacted MBFS as she believed the car had been returned in a reasonable condition, 
and it hadnt been returned late due to the agreed three month extension. She also said she 
was unhappy about the charge for the excess mileage as she didnt believe this was fair. 
MBFS accepted she shouldnt have been charged for the cars late return, they apologised 
and removed this charge from the invoice. They agreed that the charge for the excess 
mileage had been incorrectly calculated as it failed to take into consideration the additional 
2,500 miles that was permitted due to the three month extension. They recalculated the 
amount and said it should be £1,117. In light of the late return fee and excess mileage, in 
November 2020, MBFS credited £270 to Ms Ms account, meaning the outstanding balance 
was brought down to £1,457. 
Ms M complained as she remained unhappy with this, she offered £1,000 to settle the 
balance but MBFS didnt agree to this. They said they must be consistent with all their 
consumers and they were entitled to charge for the excess mileage as per the terms of the 
agreement. 
In December 2020, Ms M received a letter from a debt collection agency to collect the 
outstanding balance of £1,457. She said this caused her upset because at the time she had 
been disputing the charges with MBFS and she was concerned it would negatively impact on 
her credit file.  
In January 2021, MBFS sent their final response letter. They said the damage to the wheels 
was charged in line with their standards. In light of the issues with the late return fee and the 
excess mileage, they accepted there had been errors and Ms M didnt receive the service 
they would expect. As a gesture of goodwill, they offered a 15% reduction for the damage 
charges for the wheels. This meant, the total amount Ms M had to pay was around £1,406 
however they said if she decided not to accept their offer, they would pursue the full balance.
Unhappy with their response, Ms M referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
issued two opinions. In the first, he recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. He believed 
the end of contract charges had been fairly applied, he felt the 15% reduction for the 
damage was reasonable given MBFS errors in charging the late return fee and mis-
calculating the excess mileage. 
Ms M disagreed as she felt the investigator didnt take into consideration the trouble and 
upset caused by receiving the debt collection letter. Following further review, the investigator 
recommended the complaint was upheld and said MBFS should pay an additional £100 
given the trouble and upset caused as Ms M was still engaging with MBFS and the 
complaint was ongoing. MBFS disagreed. In summary, they said the additional £100 wasnt 
warranted given the short time between the debt collection letter and their final response. 
They also said as there was an outstanding balance, they were entitled to recover the 
money owed.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Ive decided to partially uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.  
Damage charges
Ive considered the terms of Ms Ms hire agreement. It says when the car is returned, it 
should be in good, clean condition and meet MBFS vehicle return standards. If the car 
doesnt meet the standards, the agreement entitles MBFS to apply end of contract charges. 
While their return standards are a key consideration, Ive also considered the guidance of 
the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA). Its used industry wide to assess 
damage when cars have been returned as part of the car finance agreements.
MBFS return standards say scuff or chips marks up to 25mm on wheels are acceptable, 
meanwhile the BVRLA say scuff marks up to 50mm is acceptable. This means anything 
above these measurements wouldnt be considered acceptable. 
Ive carefully considered the vehicle appraisal report which was completed when Ms Ms car 
was inspected. Based on the photographs of the four wheels, I can see there are a number 
of scuff marks around each one. Based on the number of them and the approximate size, 
Im satisfied they were beyond what MBFS and the BVLRA consider to be reasonable wear 
and tear. So I believe its fair for MBFS to charge for the damage to the wheels in line with 
their return standards.
Excess mileage
The terms of the agreement permits Ms M to travel 30,000 miles. When the car was 
returned, the inspection report showed the car had travelled over 42,800 miles. As the 
permitted mileage was exceeded, the agreement allows MBFS to apply an end of contract 
charge (9p per mile excluding VAT). MBFS have already accepted they failed to take into 
account the additional mileage permitted due to the three month extension. Even in applying 
the additional miles, the permitted mileage had been exceeded. Theyve apologised and 
corrected their error by calculating it correctly. Therefore based on the terms of the 
agreement, I cant say theyve acted unfairly by applying this end of contract charge.
Compensation In light of the above issues with incorrectly charging for the cars late return and mis-
calculating the excess mileage, MBFS accept there had been failings and theyve offered to 
reduce the damage charge by 15% as a gesture of goodwill.
Ive read the letter Ms M received from the debt collection agency. MBFS has commented 
this isnt a debt collection agency but an end of contract service provider and they didnt 
instruct them to escalate it as a debt collection. However I can see the letter explicitly makes 
reference to them being a debt collection agency, they were instructed by MBFS to collect 
the outstanding balance and failure of Ms M to respond may lead to a recommendation for 
legal action to be taken. Given the complaint was ongoing, MBFS had told Ms M the account 
would be placed on hold while they investigated and the final response letter had yet to be 
sent, I can understand why Ms M said receiving the debt collection letter was upsetting and 
she was worried about the impact on her credit score. 
While I note MBFS comments that they were entitled to pursue Ms M for the outstanding 
balance, I dont think it was fair for her to receive such a letter while the complaint was 
ongoing which they later went on to partially uphold and an offer was made to reduce the 
balance.
In light of this, I agree with the investigator, I dont think MBFS offer of 15% reduction to the 
damage charge is enough to put things right. I believe its reasonable for MBFS to also pay 
£100 compensation to Ms M for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to partially uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
To put things right, Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should:
- As previously offered and if not done so already, apply the 15% reduction to the end 
of contract charge for the damaged wheels;
- Pay £100 compensation to Ms M for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman