DRN-1809532
 
The complaint
Mr N complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
 
What happened
Mr N was given six loans by Lending Stream between April and June 2018. He says it didnt 
do adequate affordability checks before giving him the loans. Loans 3 to 6 have an unpaid 
balance, which Lending Stream sold to a debt collection agency.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint. He said Lending Stream shouldnt have given 
loans 5 and 6 to Mr N. So he asked it to pay Mr N some compensation. 
Lending Stream offered to refund interest and charges for loan 6 only. Mr N said he thought 
loan 4 was also lent irresponsibly. He says Lending Stream gave him loans in quick 
succession, without affordability checks. He says he was in a vulnerable position. 
As the parties didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr N could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think 
less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include: 
the lower a customers income (as it could be more difficult to make any loan repayments 
from a lower level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (as it could be more difficult to meet a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (as repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable). 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
I think its important for me to say that Lending Stream was required to establish whether 
Mr N could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Mr N 
could sustainably make his repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ns complaint. 
Lending Stream did some checks before it lent to Mr N. It asked him for details of his 
monthly income, which he said was about £2,000, and his normal expenditure. The 
information Mr N provided suggested the loan repayments were affordable. 
Lending Stream was aware from its credit check that Mr N had defaulted and delinquent 
accounts. However, the defaults had been recorded more than four years before and thered 
been about 18 months since the most recent delinquent account. Lending Stream was also 
aware that Mr N had other credit commitments and that the expenditure he declared (he said 
his monthly credit commitments were £75 when he applied for loan 2 and £25 when he 
applied for the later loans) was unlikely to be correct. It says it increased Mr Ns expenditure 
to take account of what knew from its checks, and still assessed the repayments as 
affordable.
Each of Mr Ns loans was repayable over a six-month period. So the amounts that Mr N 
needed to repay each month were smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. But of 
course, he had to making those repayments over a longer period. And Mr N had several 
loans outstanding together. So I have to consider the total amount that Mr N needed to 
repay to Lending Stream each month. 
I think the checks Lending Stream did before agreeing the first four loans were 
proportionate. The amounts that Mr N needed to repay were small compared with the 
disposable income hed declared. Mr N says Lending Stream should have made more 
checks before loan 4, as he was vulnerable. Ive considered what hes said, but I dont think 
Lending Stream would, at this point, have known this.
Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ns circumstances at the time, 
and his borrowing history with the lender, I dont think it would have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable before agreeing the first four loans. 
I do think, by the time Mr N asked for loan 5, that Lending Stream should have realised that 
it couldnt safely rely on the information he was providing about his finances. This was his 
fourth loan in an eight-day period, two of which were outstanding. The amounts of loans 3 to 
5 increased each time (£150, £170 and £440 respectively). I think Lending Stream should have taken steps at that time, and before any subsequent 
loans, to independently verify Mr Ns true financial position. 
Mr N provided copies of his bank statements for June 2018, which was when he took out 
loans 2 to 6. This shows a significant number of payments to gambling businesses. I think if 
Lending Stream had made proportionate checks before loan 5 it would have been alerted to 
the possibility that Mr N had a problem with gambling and that further lending was 
unsustainable, or possibly harmful. It would have known not to offer him further loans.
Putting things right
I dont think Lending Stream should have agreed to lend to Mr N after, and including, the 
loan he was given on 16 June 2018 (loan 5). So it needs to put things right.
Lending Stream says it sold the outstanding debts. It should buy these back if its able to do 
so and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream isnt able to buy the debts back then 
it should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below. It should then:
refund all the interest and charges Mr N paid on loans 5 and 6.
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loans 5 and 6 and treat all the 
payments Mr N made towards these loans as payments towards the capital.
if reworking Mr Ns loan accounts as Ive directed results in Mr N effectively having made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then Lending Stream should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement.
if reworking Mr Ns loan accounts leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
Lending Stream can use the total refund for loans 5 and 6 (after the deduction of tax) to 
offset this.
remove any adverse information its recorded in relation to loans 5 and 6 from Mr Ns 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest. It must 
give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Gain Credit LLC to take the steps and 
pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman