DRN-3611394
The complaint
Mr A complains Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as very) didnt send him a 
text message to let him know his statement was available in January 2022.  
What happened
Mr A bought an item through Shop Direct on a buy now pay later (BNPL) basis. That meant 
he didnt have to make any payments until 8 February 2022. And if he paid off the full cost of 
the item before then, he would pay no interest. 
In December 2021 Mr A paid £50 into his account that went towards this BNPL purchase, 
but as he didnt pay the full cost of the item by 8 February 2022, interest from the date of 
purchase was added to the outstanding balance. Mr A paid the balance for the cost of the 
item in early March, but he didnt pay any interest at that time or make further payments in 
the following months. As such interest continued to be added, the account went into arrears 
and was defaulted in June 2022.
Mr A complained to Shop Direct that he hadnt received a text message letting him know a 
statement was available in January. He says this happened in every other month and upon 
receipt of the text he would check his statement online and make any necessary payments. 
Because he didnt receive the text in January, he missed the deadline to pay for the item 
before interest was added. He thinks Shop Direct set a precedent by sending text messages 
every other month, which he relied on. He didnt think it was fair that he had to pay interest 
or have any negative information on his credit file.
Our investigator didnt think Shop Direct had done anything wrong. As Mr A didnt agree, his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is that Mr A has a responsibility to keep track of his account and 
make sure any payments were made on time. His statements are available online and, 
based on what hes said, he checked these regularly. So he ought reasonably to have 
known a BNPL transaction was nearing the end of the delayed payment period. Hed logged 
on to his account in December and made a payment towards the BNPL item. The statement 
he would have seen then clearly set out when the delayed payment period ended  less than 
two months later.
From the evidence Mr A has provided, it does look like Shop Direct did send him text 
messages each month letting him know his latest statement was available online. However, 
this isnt something Shop Direct was contractually obliged to do. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that no similar text message was sent in January 
2022. While I appreciate Mr A suspects this was a deliberate act on Shop Directs part, I 
havent seen any evidence of this. After all, he did get sent a text message in October  the 
month before the end of a different BNPL delayed payment period. And its unlikely Shop 
Direct specifically singled out the transaction in question.
Whatever the reason was for no text message being sent in January, I dont agree with Mr A 
that it not being sent is enough to say he doesnt have to be held to the terms of the BNPL 
agreement or that interest hasnt been fairly applied. I accept he relied on these text 
messages as a prompt to check his account online, but it was still his responsibility to keep 
track of what payments were needed and when. The information on the statements that 
were available to him in the months leading up to the end of the BNPL period was clear.
I also note Shop Direct did send emails every month, as well as the text messages, to alert 
Mr A to there being a new statement available. While Mr A says he didnt receive these, Ive 
seen Shop Directs records that show they were sent  including in January 2022  and they 
were sent to the same email address as we have for Mr A. So its more likely than not Mr A 
did get something to remind him to check his statement.
I do understand Mr As frustration. I also accept he probably would have paid the 
outstanding balance before the end of the delayed payment period if hed been sent a text 
message. But there was no obligation for Shop Direct to send Mr A a text message to tell 
him when a new statement was ready and, from the information available on the statements, 
it was clear when the delayed payment period ended. 
So Im satisfied Shop Direct fairly applied the interest it did and took reasonable steps when 
Mr A didnt make the contractual minimum payments.
Mr A has also raised concerns about the delays and service he experienced when he made 
his complaint. Mr As complaint was dealt with relatively quickly, within a couple of weeks of 
it being raised. But the issue is that Mr A didnt receive the final response letter that was sent 
to him by post on 22 March 2022. It does look like it took Shop Direct around two weeks to 
resend Mr A the letter after it ought to have been aware he hadnt received it. 
I appreciate it will have been annoying for Mr A to have to chase the final response and 
some of the answers he got werent particularly helpful. But just because something went 
wrong, this doesnt mean I would automatically award compensation  were all 
inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives. I dont think any inconvenience the delay in 
reissuing the final response letter caused is enough to warrant any compensation.
My final decision
I dont uphold his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman