DRN-4275759
The complaint
Mr L and Miss L complain that QIC Europe Limited declined a claim they made under their 
home insurance policy following bad weather.
Mr L has primarily dealt with things so, for simplicity, Ill refer to him only.
Reference to QIC includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
Ill summarise the main points about this dispute:
Mr L got in touch with QIC after water came in through his ceiling during heavy rain. 
He paid to have an emergency repair carried out to prevent further water ingress.
QIC sent a surveyor. They noted work had already been carried out, so they couldnt 
inspect the damage. But they nonetheless thought the rain wouldnt have been able 
to damage the roof tiles and enter the building. They said this meant the damage was 
caused by wear and tear.
Mr L complained but QIC maintained it was fair to decline the claim. It said the bad 
weather hadnt amounted to a storm as defined under the policy, so the claim 
couldnt be covered under the storm section of the policy. And it also said the policy 
didnt cover gradual deterioration or wear and tear.
Our investigator thought QIC had declined the claim fairly. She didnt think the 
weather met the policy definition of storm. And even if there had been sufficient 
rainfall to meet the definition, she didnt think that would likely have caused the roof 
damage which led to the water ingress.
Mr L didnt think this was a fair outcome. Amongst other things, he said the roof had 
been repaired around nine years prior with a ten year guarantee, so he thought wear 
and tear was unlikely to be the cause of the problem. He also questioned whether the 
weather records used by QIC were close enough to his home to be relied upon.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by storm. The policy definition of storm is met if 
there are wind speeds of at least 55mph or rainfall of at least 25mm per hour.
QIC looked up the weather records for the area in which Mr L lives and found these 
conditions werent met. Windspeeds at the relevant time were a maximum of 32mph, 
so there wasnt a windstorm. And it found maximum rainfall of 21.5mm over a day  
much less than the 25mm per hour rate defined in the policy.
Mr L recalls the rain being very heavy when the damage happened. I acknowledge 
his point that the conditions QIC relied on were recorded 10-15 miles away from his 
home. So the conditions at his home may have been different.
I agree but that means they could have been more severe than these records or they 
could also have been less severe. No other weather information is available, so 
these are the best indication of the likely conditions at Mr Ls home.
Overall, the weather conditions didnt meet the definition of storm. So QIC was 
entitled to decline the claim. Without a storm, there cant be storm damage.
But, given Mr Ls concerns about the rainfall data, Ive gone on to consider what the 
likely cause of the roof damage was.
QICs surveyor assessed the roof after the temporary repair, so it would have been 
difficult to accurately assess the cause of the damage from the condition of the roof 
at the time of their inspection. But its clear they had access to photos taken by the 
roofer before the repair was carried out. Their photos show some dislodged roof tiles.
I agree with QICs surveyor that its very rare for rainfall alone to dislodge well 
bonded tiles. And without any indication of strong winds, it doesnt seem likely that 
the bad weather was the primary cause of the damage. I think its more likely the tiles 
had already deteriorated, and the weather conditions highlighted that problem.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it was reasonable for QIC to decline the 
claim for the damage to the roof as there werent storm conditions  and the damage 
was unlikely to have been primarily caused by the weather in any case.
As our investigator has explained, theres no cover under the policy for the internal 
damage caused by the water ingress.
Mr L says that QIC should have contacted his roofer who carried out the emergency 
repair  but it didnt do so. I dont think QIC was obliged to reach out to the roofer. 
But Mr L is entitled to provide the roofers comments to QIC. If he does, I would 
expect QIC to consider whether that changes its position.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman