DRN-3926947
The complaint
Miss M complains that she was coerced into taking out three loans with Gain Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream). She says this has led to adverse information being recorded on 
her credit file, and she wants this information removed.
What happened
Miss M tells us that she was in an abusive and controlling relationship at the time she took 
out these loans and for some years afterwards. Miss M says her partner at the time coerced 
her into taking out the loans so she could give the money to him, and that his control of her 
finances meant she was then unable to repay the loans as the loan agreements required.
Miss M contacted Lending Stream in 2017 and agreed repayment plans for the loans, two of 
them were subsequently repaid, but one loan remains outstanding. All three loans have had 
adverse information about them recorded on Miss Ms credit file, including defaults being 
recorded for the loan that is still outstanding, and for one of the loans that has been repaid 
(although that default is now showing as satisfied)
Miss Ms relationship ended in 2019, and in 2022 she felt able to raise her concerns about 
these accounts with Lending Stream and to then refer those concerns to our service when 
Lending Stream could not resolve her complaint. After our involvement, Lending Stream has 
ultimately offered to write off the outstanding balance on the loan that has not yet been 
repaid. But it is not willing to amend any of the default information that has been recorded 
about these accounts with the credit reference agencies. Lending Stream says that it was 
not aware of Miss Ms situation at the time the loans were taken out  or prior to the defaults 
being issued  and that the information it has reported to the credit reference agencies is an 
accurate reflection of how the accounts were managed.  
Our Investigator felt that Lending Stream had offered a reasonable resolution to this 
complaint, they did not feel it needed to change or remove any of the default information 
reported to the credit reference agencies.
Miss M didnt agree with this outcome, she feels it is unfair that she is still being impacted by 
the actions of her ex-partner. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint its been 
passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that its upsetting for Miss M to have had defaults and other adverse 
information recorded on her credit file. And I can see why she feels so strongly that it is 
unfair shes ended up in this situation. She says she was coerced into taking out these loans 
by an abusive and controlling partner, so she does not feel it is fair that the loans should 
continue to affect her credit file and make it harder for her to take out credit.
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Miss M is giving us an accurate picture of her 
circumstances at the time the loans were taken out. I dont dispute that she was coerced into 
taking out these loans by her partner at the time, or that they were largely used to fund his 
lifestyle rather than to benefit Miss M in any way. But I dont think that means that it is fair for 
Lending Stream to remove the information about these loans from her credit file.
I say this for several reasons. Firstly, it seems clear that Miss M did not make Lending 
Stream aware of her particular difficulties until several years after the loans were opened 
(and then defaulted). I can entirely understand why this was the case, but it does mean that 
there appears to have been nothing to indicate to Lending Stream that Miss M was being 
coerced into taking out the loans. I dont therefore think that Lending Stream was 
unreasonable to approve these loans to Miss M.
I also note that when Miss M began to experience financial difficulties, she discussed her 
financial situation with Lending Stream, and it took steps to assist her by agreeing 
repayment plans for the outstanding loans. Again, at this time Miss M did not give any 
indication to Lending Stream of the difficult situation she was in with her partner. So, given 
what it knew at the time, Im satisfied that Lending Stream acted reasonably in trying to help 
Miss M with her financial difficulties.
And I dont then think I can fairly say it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to record 
defaults for the loan accounts that were not repaid within a reasonable period of time. 
Lending Stream issued all the appropriate notices to Miss M explaining what would happen if 
the loans were not repaid. I acknowledge that the reason why Miss M was unable to repay 
the loans  and why she had taken them out in the first place  was down to her ex-partners 
behaviour, but I dont think that means the information Lending Stream recorded about these 
accounts was inaccurate. The fact remains that these were accounts that Miss M applied for 
 not accounts that were fraudulently applied for in her name  and that she was aware of 
the need for payments to be maintained but was unable to make those payments.
Lending Stream has offered to write off the outstanding balance of the one remaining loan 
that has not been repaid, and I think that is fair in the circumstances given that Miss M does 
not appear to have benefitted from those loan funds and has clearly been through a difficult 
time. But lenders are obliged to record accurate information about accounts, and I consider 
that the information Lending Stream recorded here is accurate. So, it follows that I wont be 
asking Lending Stream to make any amendments to Miss Ms credit file other than to ensure 
it reflects that the outstanding balance has been written off. 
Whilst Im not requiring Lending Stream to remove the defaults, Miss M is entitled to apply to 
have a notice of correction added to her credit file. This gives her the chance to explain the 
circumstances of the defaults. And it allows potential lenders the opportunity to view her 
explanation.
In summary, whilst I empathise with Miss M, Im unable to say that Lending Stream has done 
anything wrong in how it has recorded these accounts with the credit reference agencies. 
Lending Stream should write off the outstanding balance of the remaining loan, and should 
update Miss Ms credit file to reflect what it has done, but I wont be requiring it to do 
anything more.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Lending Stream should write off the outstanding balance of the 
remaining loan.My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman