DRN-4215037
The complaint
Ms H complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) dealt with a claim against her home 
insurance policy poorly. 
What happened
Ms H had home insurance with UKI. In late 2021 she reported an escape of water. UKI 
accepted the claim. Our Investigator set out in detail what happened next, so I wont repeat it 
here. Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has serious health concerns and has explained how the claim  and whats gone 
wrong with it  has impacted her differently than it might others. UKI was aware of her health 
concerns, so I have borne them in mind when considering this complaint.
I have also borne in mind that UKI wasnt responsible for the escape of water. And the work 
UKI needed to undertake to reinstate the property was significant. Ms H was always going to 
experience distress and inconvenience and much of it was outside of UKIs control. 
The works are now materially complete. The crux of this complaint is deciding fair and 
reasonable compensation for Ms Hs non-financial loss  in other words, compensation 
which fairly and reasonably reflects the impact UKIs failing with the claim had on her.
During the course of the claim various things could have gone better. These include, but 
arent limited to:
- Some significant, avoidable delays which left Ms H living in an unpleasant 
environment, with her health at risk, and the need for her to constantly clean;
- Works being completed to a poor standard, leading to frustration, delays and the 
inevitable need for further works;
- Ms H returning to the property on the understanding it had been cleaned, when it 
hadnt been and was filthy, leading to her having to stay with friends; and
- The escape of water was in late 2021. The works were predominantly done by late 
2022  about a year later. And snagging issues remained until at least early to 
mid-2023. Thats a long time and a lot of hassle for Ms H.
UKI accept it could have done better at times. Over the course of the claim, it paid Ms H 
£600 compensation and offered her a further £200. The Investigator recommended UKI pay 
Ms H a further £800. UKI agreed to this recommendation, bringing total compensation due to 
Ms H to £1,600. While I recognise how difficult things were for Ms H, taking everything into 
account, Im satisfied this sum fairly and reasonably reflects the impact UKIs failings had on 
her. 
Ms H has asked UKI to compensate her for four days she had to spend with friends. The 
reason for this is that as Ms H sees it, UKI should have been paying for alternative 
accommodation during those days. By not providing alternative accommodation, it saved 
itself money, and should pay that money to her. While I see Ms Hs logic, and note the 
Investigator was initially persuaded by it, I dont see matters the same way. 
If things had happened differently, Ms H likely would have been staying in alternative 
accommodate at UKIs expense for the days in question. But Ms H didnt pay for alternative 
accommodation in UKIs stead  she stayed with friends, at no cost to her. There is, 
therefore, no financial loss Ms H has incurred for which I can fairly and reasonably require 
UKI to reimburse her. However, staying outside the home does cause some additional costs 
and disruption. UKI has offered to pay Ms H £100 (£25 a day) to compensate her for those. I 
find that fair and reasonable. 
Overall, I have a great deal of sympathy for Ms H. Having an escape of water and then a 
claim of this kind is an ordeal. UKI did let her down at times and its only fair that it 
compensates her for that. I recognise Ms H doesnt consider the compensation UKI has 
agreed to pay reflects the impact its failings had on her. However, I must approach this 
matter objectively, and having done so, Im satisfied £1,700 in total is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to pay Ms H a further £1,100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman