DRN-3616913
The complaint
Ms B complains that Santander UK Plc rejected her claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In May 2021 Ms B purchased blinds from a supplier using her Santander credit card. The 
purchase price was £801.17.
When the blinds were fitted, Ms B wasnt happy because the fabric wasnt the same as shed 
chosen. Ms B complained to the supplier. It said the fabric was the same as detailed on the 
invoice. Ms B said she hadnt noticed that the fabric detailed on the invoice didnt match the 
fabric shed chosen.
Unable to resolve matters with the supplier, Ms B contacted Santander and raised a claim 
under section 75.
Santander rejected the claim. It said there wasnt any evidence to show that there had been 
a breach of contract because the goods which had been supplied matched the goods 
detailed on the invoice. It suggested to Ms B that she obtained an independent report to 
confirm whether the blinds were fit for purpose.
Ms B wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there wasnt enough evidence to show 
that there had been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation.
Ms B didnt agree. So, Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Ms Bs complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation and that Santanders response to the claim wasnt fair or 
reasonable.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
A misrepresentation is an untrue statement of fact which induces a consumer to enter into a 
contract. 
Misrepresentation
Ms B has said that she ordered one type of fabric but was supplied with a different fabric.
Ive looked at the order confirmation/invoice, which was sent to Ms B around 3 weeks before 
the blinds were fitted. This confirms the fabric as Topaz Pearl. 
Theres no dispute that when the blinds were delivered and fitted, the fabric was Topaz 
Pearl. But Ms B says that this wasnt the fabric that she chose.
Based on what Ive seen, and because the fabric shown on the invoice/order confirmation 
was what was supplied to Ms B, Im unable to say that theres been a misrepresentation. 
I cant see that Ms B raised any queries about the fabric when she received the order 
confirmation/invoice. I appreciate that Ms B was dealing with some difficult circumstances at 
the time and that she perhaps didnt read the order confirmation as thoroughly as she might 
otherwise have done. However, without any evidence to show that Ms B ordered a different 
type of fabric to the fabric which was supplied, Im unbale to say that the supplier has made 
an error or that theres been a misrepresentation.
Breach of contract
In considering whether theres been a breach of contract, Ive thought about whether the 
blinds are of satisfactory quality and whether the blinds have been fitted with reasonable 
care and skill.
Ms B has said that the fabric wasnt what she chose. Ive already said that Im satisfied that 
the fabric supplied was in accordance with the confirmation of order/invoice. I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest that theres anything wrong with the fabric quality or colour.
Since bringing her complaint to this service, Ms B has told us that one of the blinds has 
come off the roller. She said this happened in April 2022, which is around 10 months after 
the blinds were fitted. In order to show that theres a fault with the blinds, or that the blinds 
werent fitted with reasonable care and skill, Ms B would need to obtain an independent 
report. I can see that Santander suggested this to Ms B when it responded to the section 75 
complaint.
I understand that Ms B has found it difficult to obtain a report. However, without evidence to 
show that there is either a manufacturing defect with the blinds, or that the blinds havent 
been fitted with reasonable care and skill, Im unable to conclude that the blinds are of 
unsatisfactory quality, or that theres been a breach of contract.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to conclude that theres been a misrepresentation 
or a breach of contract. I dont think Santander acted unfairly or unreasonably when it 
rejected the section 75 claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman