DRN-4381970
The complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined a claim he made under his 
home insurance policy.
AXA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As AXA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to AXA includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In February 2020, Mr S contacted AXA about damage to his property due to a storm. AXA 
told him it would need two estimates of required works to be carried out before it would 
approve repairs. Alternatively, it could appoint its repair team to attend and complete the 
required report and quotation.
Mr S told AXA hed be happy for the works to be carried out by its approved supplier. AXA 
appointed a surveyor to carry out a site visit. However, the visit was delayed because of 
restrictions during the COVID-19 pandemic, and it didnt take place until July 2020. In the 
meantime, Mr S arranged for repairs to his roof to be carried out by a local tradesman to 
prevent further damage.
Mr S also told AXA he had a pinball machine and it looked like water had entered it from the 
storm. AXA said it would need to assess if it was beyond economical repair.
Following the surveyors visit, AXA told Mr S it was declining his claim because it didnt meet 
its policy wording criteria. It advised him to send a report from his own contractor if he 
wanted AXA to consider his claim.
Mr S provided reports from his own contractor for AXAs consideration. AXA then asked     
Mr S to provide an invoice for the works that had been carried out on the roof of the property. 
Mr S said he couldnt find the invoice and was unable to get a copy from the tradesman 
whod carried out the work. AXA asked Mr S for the tradesmans contact details so it could 
speak to him directly, but Mr S said he no longer had his phone number. He said hed paid 
less than £200 for the repairs and wasnt claiming for these as they were unauthorised. 
AXA told Mr S it didnt have enough information to confirm the damage was due to a storm. 
Mr S later raised a complaint with AXA, but he didnt receive a response, so he asked our 
service to consider the matter. 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 September 2023, where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and it 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most 
likely caused the damage. Mr Ss policy provides cover for loss or damage caused by an 
event listed in it. For Mr Ss loss to be covered, it would need to fall under one of those 
events. If it doesnt  then the claim isnt covered and wont be settled. So, Ive needed to 
consider whether Mr S has shown, on the balance of probabilities, that an event listed in the 
policy caused the damage. 
Mr S says the damage to his property was caused by a storm in February 2020.
The policys terms and conditions define storm as:
A period of violent weather with wind speeds of at least 55mph, or rainfall of at least 25mm 
per hour, or snowfall of at least 30cm in 24 hours, or hail of such intensity that it damages 
hard surfaces or breaks glass.
AXA has acknowledged that there were storm conditions at the time of the incident. Its noted 
windspeeds of 69 mph and 58 mph from weather reports in the days leading up to Mr Ss 
claim.
Mr S says the storm caused damage to his front door which was almost blown off its hinges. 
He says the high winds also caused some tiles to blow off his porch and main roof. This 
resulted in internal damage to the ceilings and walls. He says his pinball machine (worth 
around £5,000) was also damaged due to water ingress.
The report from the surveyor who visited Mr Ss property in July 2020 says: 
The P/H has shown water damage to the Lounge plasterboard/skim ceiling beside the large 
Lounge window. Externally the surveyor could not see any storm damage. It is assumed the 
driving rain has seeped through the joint between the window & the lead flashing above the 
Lounge window. The P/H was advised they would need to ensure the lead flashing is 
resealed.
The P/H also pointed out staining to the Kitchen ceiling, this is not claim related as it appears 
to be coming from the overhead shower/bath at the Bathroom above.
No signs of storm damage to the pitched slate roof to either the main roof or porch although 
the P/H claims they repaired this themselves
Following the surveyors visit, AXA repudiated Mr Ss claim referring to wording in the policy 
terms and conditions which excludes cover for damage caused by wear and tear, or failure 
to fix a known issue.
AXAs repudiation email isnt very detailed but notes of its telephone conversations with Mr S 
indicate it told him that the damage to the kitchen suggested a water leak from the bathroom 
above. Its also noted telling Mr S that no storm damage had impacted the lounge. It seems 
to have reached the conclusion that the damage was caused by water entering through the 
window flashing. I cant see any mention of the cause of damage to the front door. 
AXA told Mr S it would consider his claim further if he sent a report from his own contractor, 
hed had out to investigate.From what I can see, Mr S provided a report from his contractor in late November 2020. This 
says:
The lead flashing above living room window was mentioned by the client as to be a possible 
source of water ingress suggested by another survey. The flashing and seal around this 
window is visibly sound and the suspect joint under the flashing is sealed. It is some 30cm 
below the level of the ceiling where water ingress took place and client advised no ingress or 
further leaks since roof had been repaired nor was there before this incident.
After AXA asked Mr S if his contractor could confirm what caused the water to ingress in the 
property, he provided a further report which says:
It is my opinion and in all certainly [sic] the ingress to the property came from the lifting, 
removal and / or movement of the group of tiles to the first floor pitched roof lower edge 
above the guttering/rones adjacent to the neighbours roof. On the evening and within time 
span of the storm a significant amount of water has entered here given the damage to 
ground floor ceilings/walls as per original report the water has clearly flowed down the 
internal wall(s) until arriving at the living room ceiling then spreading as it pooled up. 
Thankfully the ceiling was punctured to avoid further damage.
A temporary repair had taken place, I was informed, and upon my further examination some 
months after the event, and an inspection using a ladder shows a sound repair exists
It looks like AXA referred the matter back to the surveyor who attended the property in July 
2020, who provided the following comments:
We are not stating that the P/H did not have storm damage we are stating that at the time of 
visit the roof appeared to be water tight by the P/Hs own trades. So at time of visit there was 
no roof repairs to be carried out as this was already done by others so no costs had been 
included to the scope for this. 
The Porch has damage to the upvc door which we are not disputing as well as rain water 
damage to ceilings/walls. We had not included any costs for the Pin Ball Machine as this is a 
Contents Issue & we are only there for Buildings insurance. If the P/H feels the Pin Ball 
Machine is affected by the rain water ingress they should bring this up with their Contents 
Insurance which I would have pointed out at time of visit
The only part of the claim that we did not think was related to storm damage was the water 
damage to the Kitchen plasterboard ceiling to the rear of the building
I agree with what the P/Hs own trades are saying about the internal damage to the Porch & 
Lounge. We had priced for this & sent it over to the Client. No roof works has [sic] been 
included as the roof had been repaired by the P/Hs own trades before we had arrived to site 
& from site inspection no further roof works where [sic] required
AXA has noted that it would be happy to consider the claim, but it wanted to see some 
further information which included an invoice for the work completed. 
The claim handler asked Mr S for an invoice for the external works that had been carried out 
on the roof of the property. Mr S said he wasnt able to locate the invoice. He said he hadnt 
asked AXAs permission before arranging for the repair to be carried out, so he hadnt 
intended to claim for it. 
In another email, Mr S said hed tried to get a copy of the invoice from the tradesman who 
carried out the repair, but he didnt seem willing to locate it. Mr S said the tradesman was 
now working around 200 miles away. Mr S said the cost of repair was only a small amount (£120 or £180) so he would write it off. His main concern was getting his home back to 
normal and concluding the claim.
The claim handler then asked Mr S for his contractors contact detail so he could speak to 
him directly. But Mr S said he no longer had these. He said hed deleted the contact because 
hed been aggressive and dismissive towards him.
Around a month later (in April 2021) AXA said it didnt have enough information to confirm 
the damage was due to a storm. It said it appreciated that some of the works after the 
incident were carried out by Mr Ss contractor for safety purposes. However, it had never 
received confirmation from his contractor that the damages rectified at the property were due 
to a storm.
It appears that the only reason AXA decided to decline Mr Ss claim was because he was 
unable to provide an invoice for the repairs to his roof that had been carried out in early 
2020.
AXAs surveyor appears to have accepted that the damage to Mr Ss porch and lounge were 
likely to have been caused by a storm after Mr S provided reports from his own contractor. 
AXAs surveyor also said it didnt dispute the damage to the porch door was caused by the 
storm. 
AXA didnt visit Mr Ss property until five months after he made his claim. Clearly, Mr S 
couldnt have delayed arranging repairs to his roof until after AXAs visit. I appreciate AXA 
told Mr S he would need two estimates of required works before it would give its approval. 
However, from what Mr S has said, the repairs that were required to his roof were quite 
minor and relatively low cost. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr S to have gone ahead 
and arranged repairs without approval under the circumstances.
The relevant industry rules require an insurer to provide reasonable guidance to help a 
policyholder make a claim and appropriate information on its progress. 
I havent seen any information to suggest that AXA explained to Mr S that his claim for 
internal damage might be impacted if repairs were completed before AXA had the 
opportunity to inspect the property. I cant see anything to show that Mr S was advised he 
would need to provide a report from the roofer to show the damage was caused by the storm 
or that he would need to send the invoice to AXA.
From what I can see, the first time AXA asked Mr S to provide an invoice for the roof repairs 
was in March 2021, which would have been around a year after the repairs were carried out. 
When it did ask, I dont think AXA made it clear why it needed to see the invoice. Mr S was 
left with the impression that AXA only needed to see it to validate the cost of the external 
repairs, which he wasnt too concerned about claiming for. AXA didnt ask Mr S for the 
tradesmans contact details until a couple of weeks after he said he couldnt get a copy of 
the invoice. By which time, Mr S says hed deleted the contact information. 
Its also unclear why AXA didnt consider the damage to Mr Ss front door as this seems to 
be unrelated to the roof repairs. 
Having considered everything, I think Mr S has done enough to show that his property was 
damaged by a storm in February 2020. So, I dont think it was reasonable for AXA to decline 
his claim.
The policy excludes cover for costs or expenses unless We have agreed to pay them in 
advance. So, AXA doesnt need to cover the cost of the roof repairs. However, Mr S has shown that his front door was damaged and that internal damage to his 
porch and lounge was caused by water ingress through his roof, as a result of the storm. 
Reports from both AXAs surveyors and Mr Ss own contractors suggest Mr Ss roof was in 
good condition. So, I dont think it would be fair for AXA to rely on an exclusion to decline the 
claim. 
I also think it would be fair for AXA to consider Mr Ss claim for damage to his pinball 
machine as a result of the storm. 
Mr S says hes been living with the internal damage and an unlockable front door since the 
incident. Hes also spent a considerable amount of time dealing with the claim. I dont think it 
would be fair to hold AXA responsible for the entire length of time this matter has been going 
on. It looks like there was a gap of around a year between AXA telling Mr S it wasnt taking 
his claim any further and him raising a complaint. And I think the delay in the initial survey 
visit was likely to have been at least partly beyond AXAs control due to the impact of the 
COVID pandemic on visiting homes.
However, Ive explained why I think AXAs decision to decline Mr Ss claim was unfair. I also 
think its communication with Mr S was poor and there were avoidable delays in progressing 
his claim. It took almost five months to reach a decision after Mr S provided information from 
his contractors in late 2020. It doesnt appear to have properly dealt with communication 
from Mr S from April 2022 to February 2023. There was a delay in responding to emails and 
Mr S says nobody returned his calls.
Having considered the overall impact of AXAs poor service on Mr S, I think it would be fair 
for it to pay him £750 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
I set out what I intended to direct AXA to do to put things right. And I gave both parties the 
opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider 
before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mr S said he had no further comments or information to add.
AXA didnt respond with anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information for me to consider, I see no reason to 
change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
AXA should:
Accept Mr Ss claim for damage to his front door, porch and lounge and settle it in 
line with the policys terms and conditions.
Consider Mr Ss claim for his damaged pinball machine under the contents section of 
the policy.
Pay Mr S £750 for distress and inconvenience.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc 
to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman