DRN-3727622
The complaint
Mr C complains through a representative that Morses Club PLC (Morses) provided loans 
which he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr C took three loans from Morses between November 2017 and February 2020. A 
summary of his borrowing can be found in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 02/11/2017 13/04/2018 20 £15.00
break in lending
2 £200.00 19/07/2019 15/02/2020 33 £10.00
3 £500.00 15/02/2020 09/10/2020 34 £25.00
Following Mr Cs complaint, Morses considered it and didnt uphold it. Unhappy with this 
response, Mr Cs representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator. He concluded Morses made a reasonable 
decision to lend these loans because it carried out a proportionate which showed Mr C was 
able to afford the repayments. So, he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Morses didnt respond to or acknowledge the adjudicators assessment. 
Mr Cs representative didnt agree and explained: 
I am afraid that we do not agree with the decision made and therefore request the 
case be transferred for a Final Decision by an Ombudsman.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr C could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Cs income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr C. These factors include:
Mr C having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr C having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr C coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr C.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr C was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Cs complaint.
Loan 1
Before the loan was approved, Morses took details of Mr Cs income and expenditure. 
Morses recorded Mr Cs income as being around £270 per week with weekly outgoings of 
£208. Morses was therefore aware that he had around £68 per week in which to make the 
weekly loan payment of £15. 
Morses may well have reasonably concluded that based solely on the income and 
expenditure information that Mr C would be in a position to afford this loan. 
There wasnt anything else in the checks that Morses carried out before this loan which 
indicated the loan was likely to be unaffordable or that Mr C was having wider financial 
difficulties. It also hadnt yet reached the stage where I think that Morses needed to have 
verified the information Mr C had provided it.
Given it was early on in the lending relationship and the modest sum lent, I think it was 
reasonable for Morses to have relied on the information Mr C provided along with the income 
and expenditure figures to show Mr C had sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayments he was committed to making. So, like the adjudicator Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint about the loan.
Loans 2 and 3 There was a significant gap in lending of around 15 months after Mr C repaid loan 1 and 
took loan 2. This break, in my view is sufficiently large for Morses to have in effect treated 
Mr C as a new customer and the start of the new lending relationship. This means, loan 2 
could be treated as if it was loan 1 in a new chain of borrowing and this has implications for 
what Morses needed to do in order to carry out a proportionate check. 
Similar checks were carried out before these loans were approved for Mr C as they were for 
loan 1.  
For these loans, Mr C had declared a weekly income of between £550 and £747. With 
declared outgoings of between £389 and £473 per week.  Which gave Mr C a minimum 
weekly disposable income of £163. This may have then led Morses to believe that Mr C had 
sufficient disposable income to afford the largest weekly loan repayment of £25.
In addition, before loan 2, Morses also carried out a credit search and it has provided a copy 
of the results to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
It is worth saying here that although Morses carried out a credit search there isnt a 
regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. Therefore, its entirely 
possible that the information Morses received may not entirely reflect the information Mr C 
may be able to view in his own credit report. There could be for a number of reasons for this, 
such as Morses only asking for certain pieces of information such as the number of active 
credit accounts. 
But what Morses cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the information it 
received  if necessary.  
Ive considered the results that it has provided. Having reviewed these results, there is some 
adverse information such as Morses being aware of a total of seven defaults but most of 
these had been reported on his credit file more than three years before these loans. Which 
would indicate that in the past, Mr C had some repayment problems, but these defaults on 
its own wouldnt have led, in my view to Morses carrying out further checks. 
There wasnt anything else in my view from the results that wouldve led Morses to conclude 
that he was either having longer term financial difficulties or was have problems repaying 
other credit. There also wasnt any evidence that Mr C was reliant on this type of credit, for 
example Mr C had only opened one new credit account within the last six months  I dont 
consider this to be excessive. 
The results, in my view, wouldnt have led Morses to have either carried out further checks 
or have declined these loan applications. 
Morses could reasonably believe, based on what Mr C declared to it in the income and 
expenditure information, the credit checks and the weekly repayment wouldve led it to 
believe these loans were affordable. I also dont think it was unreasonable to have relied on 
the information Mr C declared and it hadnt yet reached the stage where it needed to verify 
the information provided by Mr C.
As this is the case, Im not upholding any of Mr Cs loans. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman