DRN-2165845
The complaint
Miss L says Western Circle Ltd  trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) - irresponsibly lent to 
her.
What happened
This complaint is about four loans Cashfloat provided to Miss L between March and 
December 2019.  Miss Ls borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 28/03/2019 20/05/2019 2 £250.00 £161.62
2 20/05/2019 20/08/2019 3 £450.00 £224.34
3 27/09/2019 30/12/2019 4 £500.00 £178.44
4 30/12/2019 Outstanding 5 £700.00 £250.01
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Ls complaint and thought the loans from loan 1 onwards 
shouldnt have been given because the information Cashfloat had gathered about Miss L 
showed she was having problems managing her money because she had other outstanding 
short-term loans when she was given the first loan. 
Cashfloat disagreed and said Miss Ls credit file showed she had sufficient disposable 
income to repay the loan repayments. Cashfloat requested an ombudsmans review of the 
complaint and it was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure     
Miss L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Miss L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ls complaint. Having done this, Im upholding Miss Ls 
complaint from loan 1. Ill explain why.
I think Cashfloat ought to have realised that Miss L wouldnt have been able to make her 
repayments for her loan sustainably without taking out more lending. I can see Cashfloat did 
credit checks on Miss L before it lent the first loan to her. And I can see that Cashfloat has 
provided the reports from the credit checks to us. 
Having reviewed all of this, I dont think Miss L was able to repay any of her loans in a 
sustainable manner.  The credit check reports show that Miss L already had some 
outstanding short-term loans. This information was apparent each time Cashfloat did a credit 
check. So, it was aware from the information it has provided, that it was likely Miss L would 
be unable to sustainable repay not just loan 1 but all the loans. 
I think this was a clear indication that Miss L was in a debt cycle and relying upon borrowing 
to repay borrowing. This was shown when Miss L would borrow again either on the same 
day she repaid a previous loan or shortly after and each loan was for a greater amount than 
the one before. 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 1 to 4 and Cashfloat should put things right.
Putting things rightIf Cashfloat has sold the outstanding debt Cashfloat should buy it back if Cashfloat is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Cashfloat cant buy the debt back, then Cashfloat 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss L towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything Cashfloat has already refunded.
B) Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest on the individual payments made by 
Miss L which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss L originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Cashfloat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loan 4, and 
treat any repayments made by Miss L as though they had been repayments of the principal 
on this loan. If this results in Miss L having made overpayments then Cashfloat should 
refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from 
the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Cashfloat 
should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on loan 4. If this results in a surplus, then the 
surplus should be paid to Miss L. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Cashfloat should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss L. Cashfloat shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Cashfloat has already written-off.
E) Cashfloat should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ls credit file in 
relation to loans 1 to 4. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must give 
Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint. Western Circle Ltd should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman