DRN-3684897
The complaint
Miss H complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Financial 
Services (Argos), lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss H applied for a store card with Argos in June 2012. She opened an account with a 
credit limit of £550. 
Miss H says that Argos shouldnt have provided her with the original credit or the increase in 
her credit limit to £600 in March 2019. She says it didnt take account of her low income at 
the time and that she had missed payments to other creditors, too. She says that if proper 
checks had been done Argos would have seen that she wasnt managing her finances well. 
Our adjudicator upheld Miss Hs complaint. He said that he considered Argos should have 
checked Miss Hs income and expenditure when it opened her account and, if it had, it would 
have realised she was spending more than she was earning. 
Argos disagreed. It said it had conducted appropriate and proportionate checks and there 
had been nothing in those checks that indicated Miss H was in financial trouble or that it 
would be unfair to lend to her. 
As Argos did not agree the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. I came to a 
slightly different conclusion to that of our adjudicator and I wrote to both parties to explain 
this. I invited comments from both parties before I made my final decision, and both parties 
provided these. I have reviewed these comments and refer to them in my decision. But I 
didnt see anything which made me think I should change my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considering Miss Hs complaint.
Ive already explained that I have come to a different outcome to our adjudicator. I dont think 
Argos was wrong to provide Miss H with her initial credit, but I do think it was wrong to 
provide her with an increase in her credit limit in March 2019. Ill explain why Ive reached 
this conclusion.
Argos needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H could afford 
to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount, Miss Hs borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Argos has said that it completed proportionate checks when Miss H opened her account. It 
says it conducted a credit check which showed nothing of concern and that it asked Miss H 
what her income was. It hasnt provided a copy of these checks, so I dont know what Argos 
saw, but I have no information to suggest that these checks on their own would have shown 
anything of concern. 
Our adjudicator thought that it would have been better if Argos had completed income and 
expenditure checks at this point.  I dont think there was anything to suggest Argos needed 
to do this. The credit offered was relatively low at £550 and there were no other reasons for 
Argos to have concerns. We asked Miss H about her income at the time of the account 
opening and while she says it was relatively low at £980 I dont think repayments on a credit 
limit of £550 would have been unmanageable. Miss H has provided an approximation of her 
expenditure at the time which our adjudicator calculated meant she was living in excess of 
her means. But I havent seen any evidence to support this expenditure (or income) or any 
evidence that the proportionate checks completed by Argos at account opening should have 
shown this. In her response to my provisional decision, Miss H reiterated her financial 
circumstances but didnt provide any evidence, so I still cant rely on the income and 
expenditure she has told us about. So, on balance, I think Argoss initial decision to lend to 
Miss H was reasonable.
In March 2019 Argos increased Miss Hs credit limit by £50 to £600.  Argos says that when it 
did this it reviewed how Miss H had been managing her account and made an assessment 
of the affordability of the credit facility. It says it saw nothing that would have indicated she 
had trouble managing her account. 
Argos has provided copies of Miss Hs account statements preceding this increase. For 
many months Miss H had only been making the minimum repayments on her account. She 
was barely paying back any of the outstanding debt as most of her repayments were 
covering the interest and she was using a very high proportion of her limit every month. Miss 
H says that at the time of this increase she had been in default on an unsecured loan with 
another business from September to December 2018. This has been confirmed as correct in 
information supplied to this service by the other business in relation to a separate complaint.
 While Miss Hs credit file does not now show this default, it is likely because the other 
business has amended her credit file as part of its settlement with Miss H. Argos has queried 
this. It says that it may be the case that these defaults were taken off Miss Hs credit file 
before it made the decision to lend more to her in March 2019, only three months later.
I have checked this again. The defaults were not taken off Miss Hs credit file between 
December 2018 and March 2019. So I am satisfied that Argos ought to have seen the 
defaults on Miss Hs credit file if it had completed the checks it says it did when it increased 
her credit limit. Argos has not been able to provide evidence that it saw something different 
when it made its checks. I think Argos should not have increased Miss Hs credit limit 
because her current lending appeared to be becoming unaffordable for her. So, I think its 
decision to extend Miss Hs credit limit was unfair.
Putting things right
As I dont think Argos should have increased Miss Hs credit limit from £550 to £600, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit.
However, Miss H has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account, so I thinkshe should pay this back. Therefore, if my decision is made final, Argos should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to
balances above £550 from the date of the credit limit increase in March 2019.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Miss H along
with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to
the date of settlement. Argos should also remove all adverse information recorded
after the March 2019 credit limit increase regarding this account from Miss Hs credit 
file.
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £550, Argos should
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Miss H for the remaining amount. Once
Miss H has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded
after the March 2019 increase in relation to the account should be removed from her 
credit file.
If Argos has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is 
carried out promptly.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Argos to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Miss H a 
certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce 
an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting tax.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I partially uphold Miss Hs complaint and direct Home 
Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Financial Services to pay 
compensation as I have described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman