DRN-4111964
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R, on behalf of the estate of Mrs T, complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading 
as Virgin Money held Mrs T liable for payments which she didnt authorise.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
here, Ill recap the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
In early 2022, Mrs T used her Virgin Money debit card to withdraw money from an ATM and 
saw she had less money than she was expecting. She went to a Clydesdale branch (as they 
provided her Virgin Money account) and discovered a number of payments had been taken 
which she didnt recognise.
Virgin Money asked Mrs T if she had received any suspicious calls or texts and she 
confirmed she hadnt. She also said she hadnt shared her card details with anyone. 
Virgin Money found One Time Passcodes (OTPs) had been used to complete some of the 
disputed payments. They had been sent to the number it had on file for Mrs T  which she 
confirmed hadnt changed. It also checked and found no evidence suggesting a SIM swap or 
hostile account take over had occurred. 
The disputed transactions went to two merchants: one providing cryptocurrency services, 
and the other providing money transfer services. When Virgin Money contacted them about 
the fraud report, the money transfer merchant responded that the funds had been paid to an 
account held with them in Mrs Ts name. 
Virgin Money declined Mrs Ts fraud claim. Sadly, she passed away shortly after. Mrs R is 
the executor of her estate. She and Mr R complained to Virgin Money, on behalf of the 
estate, that it hadnt considered Mrs Ts claim fairly. Mr R explained he had found records 
that Mrs T had received a number of suspicious calls on the day of the payments. He 
disputed that she had held an account with the money transfer merchant  and said she 
didnt do any online banking or payments. 
Virgin Money didnt agree with the complaint. It maintained it had considered the claim fairly. 
Unhappy with this response, the estate referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the transactions looked suspicious but didnt think 
we knew enough about the circumstances to conclude that Virgin Money should fairly be 
held liable. 
The estate has appealed the investigators outcome. They argue that, if Virgin Money had 
acted appropriately in response to the suspicious transactions, a lot of the loss could have 
been prevented. And they further dispute that Mrs T had set up the merchant accounts. The 
case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of the investigator. Ill explain why.
In explaining my findings, Im mindful the estate has made quite detailed submissions to us 
about this complaint. I would like to reassure them that I have considered everything they 
have submitted carefully. But I wont be responding in similar detail. If I dont mention a 
particular point or piece of evidence, that is not because I havent taken it into account. It is 
just that I dont believe it necessary to reference it to explain my decision, which is focussed 
on what I consider to be the main issues. This is not intended as a discourtesy; rather, it is a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service.
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), customers are generally liable 
for payments they authorise  and their bank is generally liable for unauthorised 
transactions. But there are exceptions to this. 
In some circumstances, a customer may be held liable for unauthorised payments if they 
failed with gross negligence, or intent, to keep their personalised security credentials safe, or 
comply with their account terms  and that has allowed an unauthorised transaction to be 
made.
We also expect banks to take steps to help protect their customers from harm from fraud 
and scams. If we think a bank should have identified that their customer was at risk from 
fraud, yet failed to take appropriate action to protect them, which would have prevented their 
loss, we might consider it fair to hold them liable  even if the customer authorised the 
payment. 
The disputed payments do look unusual amongst Mrs Ts general account use. And it does 
appear that she received a number of suspicious calls around the time they were made. 
Which does indicate Mrs T likely fell victim to some type of scam. But in line with the 
regulations Ive outlined above, that in itself doesnt mean Virgin Money is liable for her loss.
The main issue here is that, as all parties acknowledge, there are some details of what 
happened that we simply dont know. It is certainly plausible that fraudsters completed these 
payments without Mrs Ts authorisation. But its difficult to know whether that is the more 
likely explanation  and if so, how that occurred. Or whether there is another explanation for 
what happened. All of this is crucial for determining whether Virgin Money is liable. 
I do put weight on Mrs Ts actions when she found out about the payments. I accept they are 
consistent with her not authorising them. But as touched on, there are other plausible 
explanations. Under the PSRs, a customer consents to a payment when they complete the 
agreed form and procedure to execute a payment transaction. If Mrs T was somehow tricked 
into completing the steps to make a payment, without perhaps even realising that was what 
she was doing, that would still be considered an authorised payment.
If the payments were unauthorised, we dont know how a fraudster got hold of the details 
needed to complete them. Based on the calls Mrs T seems to have received, it could be that 
she was called by a fraduster who tricked her into disclosing certain details (such as the 
OTP codes she was sent). But again, without an account from Mrs T of whether and how 
that happened, its difficult to say whether she might hold any liability under the PSRS  if 
her disclosure enabled the transactions to be made.As touched on above, there are also circumstances in which Mrs T may have authorised the 
payments  by completing the agreed form and procedure to execute the payment, without 
realising she was making them. Or, she may have realised she was making payments  but 
was tricked about the destination or purpose. There are a number of common scams we see 
like this. And some of the information we have about what happened are consistent with 
these being authorised payments.
For example, we dont have an explanation for how an unauthorised person obtained the 
OTPs. Particularly as, when asked about what happened, Mrs T told Virgin Money that she 
hadnt received any suspicious calls or texts. Which seemingly contradicts her phone 
records. We dont know why Mrs T didnt disclose the calls to Virgin Money. 
Furthermore, Im satisfied with Virgin Moneys reasons for thinking one of the accounts paid 
was held in Mrs Ts name, based on the information by provided by that merchant. It could 
be that a scammer set up the account in Mrs Ts name, with or without her knowledge. But 
that would add another level to the scam which, as things stand, we dont have an 
explanation for. As it seems there was some form of identity verification used to set up that 
account, and Mrs Ts genuine details (such as her date of birth and address) were used. 
So, in all the circumstances, Im not persuaded its more likely these were unauthorised 
payments  and that the circumstances in which they were made means Virgin Money 
should be held liable. But Ive also considered whether, if these were authorised payments, it 
might still be fair to expect Virgin Money to accept some liability for the loss. 
As mentioned above, I agree that the nature and pattern of the payments looked suspicious. 
I therefore think there is an argument that Virgin Money should have taken further steps, 
beyond sending OTP codes, to assess whether Mrs T was falling victim to a scam. But that 
in itself doesnt mean Virgin Money should refund the estate. That depends on whether any 
failings had a material impact on Mrs Ts loss
Again, that is difficult to gauge given the limited information we have about what happened. 
And based on what we do know, there are reasons to question whether Virgin Money would 
have succeeded in uncovering the scam and preventing the loss. Its common for customers 
to be coached by scammers into giving cover stories and not divulging the real reason they 
have been told for why they should make the payments. 
I do consider it significant that we dont know why Mrs T didnt tell Virgin Money about the 
calls she seems to have been receiving at the time of these payments, despite being asked 
about any suspicious calls or texts. That could be an indication that she had been coached 
not to disclose them. And if she deliberately didnt disclose these calls to Virgin Money  
which I think is a possibility I must entertain, when weighing up the possible scenarios to 
decide whats more likely  that makes it harder to conclude that she would have told Virgin 
Money if it had contacted her at the time.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs R are acting out of concern for a vulnerable person who likely did 
lose out to a scam. But based on what I know  or perhaps more crucially, what I dont know 
 Im not directing Virgin Money to refund these payments. As Im not persuaded there is 
enough to show its more likely than not that the circumstances in which these payments 
were made mean Virgin Money is liable for them.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman