DRN-3779108
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APS) restricted his account and 
are withholding his money.
What happened
In November 2020, APS restricted Mr Ss account. As part of the review, and in 
December 2020, APS asked Mr S for proof of his identity, his address, and his entitlement to 
two payments hed received into the account. APS was satisfied with Mr Ss entitlement to 
the payments; but wasnt satisfied with his identity document or address confirmation. Mr Ss 
account remain blocked.
Our investigator reviewed things and partially upheld Mr Ss complaint. In summary, he said 
APS were entitled to restrict Mr Ss account while they carried out their review. But, he 
thought Mr S had provided sufficient evidence of his identity and address and therefore 
thought they should release the money which is held in the account to Mr S, plus 8% interest 
to recognise the time hes been without the money.
APS didnt agree with our investigator. They said they dont accept the type of identity 
document Mr S provided, and they only accept certified bank statements as proof of 
address. Mr S had sent a covering letter from the bank but didnt enclose the statements. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
I reached out to APS in an attempt to resolve things informally; but they didnt respond. So I 
have proceeded with a formal decision.
In September 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said;
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing relationship. That sometimes means they need to review and sometimes block 
customers accounts. Im satisfied APS reviewed and blocked Mr Ss account to meet these 
legal requirements. So, I cant say they have done anything wrong in this regard.
Im pleased to see APS were proactive in their review by requesting information from Mr S. It 
appears APS accepted the evidence Mr S supplied to show he was entitled to the money in 
the account; and therefore, this point is not in dispute. However, APS are still withholding the 
money from Mr S until theyre convinced of his identity and address. 
APS make it clear on their website what documents they accept as proof of identity. While 
Mr S has provided two types of documents, neither of these are listed as acceptable forms of 
identity. However, Mr S says he doesnt have any of the identity documents APS wants to 
see. Ive thought carefully about this point. Mr S should have been aware before opening 
and using his account that APS only accepted certain identity documents  if Mr S knew he 
didnt hold one of these documents, then he should have considered banking elsewhere. 
Nonetheless, the current situation means APS are holding on to money which theyre 
satisfied rightfully belongs to Mr S  and he cant retrieve it because he doesnt have a 
particular document. Mr S has tried to resolve matters by providing two alternative forms of 
identity and I dont consider it reasonable that APS arent doing more to assist him. While I 
appreciate the identity documents arent the usual forms APS accept, I do think they should 
make an exception in circumstances such as this. APS clearly explain that certain 
documents need to be certified  and therefore, if Mr S was able to get both of his identity 
documents certified, I think this ought to be enough for APS to accept them.
In turn, with the proof of address, Mr S has provided the cover letter from the bank of a 
statement and a copy of the statement  but not the original statement. Cashplus has said 
this isnt enough for them to accept. I can appreciate both APS and Mr Ss position here. Mr 
S thinks he has provided enough; but APS wants a complete set of bank statements sent 
from the bank and dated within the last three months to satisfy them of Mr Ss address. It 
appears Mr S is able to provide these particular documents  as he has already supplied a 
copy of the statements. Therefore, I would urge Mr S to send APS the full statements sent 
by the bank to allow APS to be satisfied of his address.
So, in summary, I thought APS were entitled to review Mr Ss account and ask him for 
information  but I didnt think it was reasonable for them to hold on to his money indefinitely. 
Based on the circumstances, I thought APS should accept Mr Ss proof of identity as long as 
it is appropriately certified (which Mr S can find details on this on the UK government 
website), and Mr S should provide a full copy of his bank statement to APS.
Neither party responded with any further comments or arguments to my provisional decision. 
Mr S did provide a letter from another organisation confirming his address; however, it 
wasnt certified.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party raised further arguments, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
findings.
Putting things right
I explained in my provisional decision that Mr S should provide the following to allow APS to 
release the money:
Certified copies of both Mr Ss identity documents he had previously supplied to APS;
Full statements that were posted to Mr S by his bank.
Once Mr S has provided the above, APS should release the money held in the account to 
him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
To put things right, Advanced Payment Solutions Limited should accept Mr Ss proof of 
identity as long as it is certified. And release the money to Mr S once they have received 
appropriate confirmation of Mr Ss address through his bank statement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman