DRN-3866397
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs D complain that Godiva Mortgages Limited increased the interest rate on their 
buy to let mortgages, having failed to reduce the rate in the past.
What happened
Mr C and Mrs D have three buy to let mortgages with Godiva. Each mortgage is on Godivas 
Flexx rate  which is a managed variable rate which allows flexibility and does not have an 
early repayment charge (ERC). They took the mortgages out in 2016, at which time the 
Flexx rate was 2.09%.
In 2017 and again in 2018, Godiva increased the interest rate to reflect changes to the Bank 
of England base rate, reaching 2.59%. 
In 2020, when the base rate fell from 0.75% to 0.1% at the start of the coronavirus 
pandemic, Godiva did not reduce the Flexx rate on Mr C and Mrs Ds mortgages. They 
complained about this at the time. One of our investigators looked at their complaint, and 
didnt uphold it. He said that the Flexx rate was not linked to base rate  though base rate 
was one of the factors Godiva could consider in setting the rate. 
The investigator said that Godiva had provided evidence to show that despite the fall in base 
rate, it reasonably expected its costs to increase because of the impact of the pandemic, and 
so it had chosen to reduce the interest rate paid by other customers on higher interest rates, 
rather than reduce the lower Flexx rate. He said that was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr C and Mrs D accepted what the investigator said at the time.
More recently, in 2022, the Bank of England base rate has started to rise again. And Godiva 
has increased the Flexx rate charged to Mr C and Mrs Ds mortgages. Mr C and Mrs D have 
therefore brought a further complaint. They dont think its fair that Godiva puts the Flexx rate 
up when base rate rises but doesnt reduce it when base rate falls. They think this is 
evidence not only of unfairness now, but also further evidence of unfairness in 2020.
Another of our investigators looked at this complaint. He said that Godiva had made two 
different decisions at two different times, based on the circumstances at those times. We 
had already considered what happened in 2020 and wouldnt look at it again. And he thought 
that Godiva had provided evidence showing that its costs were increasing now, so it was fair 
for it to increase the Flexx rate  and he noted that Godiva had not passed on the base rate 
increases in full. 
Overall, our investigator did not think Godiva had acted unfairly. Mr C and Mrs D didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whether it was fair for Godiva to increase the interest rate, the starting point is 
whether it was permitted to do so under the mortgage contract. And then, if it was, I will also 
need to consider whether Godiva exercised that power fairly in all the circumstances. 
The mortgage offers say the applicable rate is the Flexx rate, which is
A variable rate, currently 2.09%, which is managed by Godiva Mortgages Limited and 
is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base 
Rate, to the end of the mortgage term.
The product special conditions say
The payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Company 
[Godiva], at a rate, currently 2.09%, which will be set independently of The 
Companys Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
I think this makes it clear that the Flexx rate is a variable rate and can be changed from time 
to time, and is not linked to the Bank of England base rate. 
Ive also considered the circumstances in which Godiva can change the rate. The terms and 
conditions say 
Unless the offer says otherwise, we can change the applicable Interest Rate for any 
of the following reasons (which may relate to circumstances existing at the time or 
those which are expected to apply in the near future):
(i) To respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate, or mortgage or 
investment rates generally;
(ii) To response to changes in the law or decisions of a court or ombudsman;
(iii) To meet relevant regulatory requirements;
(iv) To respond to new (or changes to any) statements or codes of practice 
designed to enhance customer protection;
(v) To respond to changes in the costs or risk incurred by us in providing the 
mortgage;
(vi) To respond to increased cost or risk incurred as a result of any change of use 
of the Property (for example, if you let the Property, with or without our 
permission); or
(vii) For any other reasons set out specifically in the Offer
Any change that we make to the rate of interest will be proportionate to the 
circumstances give rise to the change.
This means that Godiva can  but not must  change the interest rate for any of the reasons 
set out. The relevant ones in this case are to respond to changes in the Bank of England 
(Base) Rate) and to respond to changes in the costs or risk incurred by us in providing the 
mortgage. But where those reasons exist, that does not mean that Godiva has to change 
the rate. Rather, where those reasons exist, but only where those reasons exist, it has the 
power to choose to change the rate by an amount which is proportionate to the relevant 
reason.Thats why our investigator, in the previous complaint, said that Godiva didnt have to reduce 
the Flexx rate when base rate fell in 2020. The Flexx rate is not linked to base rate, and 
while base rate is a factor it can take into account, it does not have to respond to changes in 
base rate. And our investigator said that there were good reasons why Godiva had chosen 
not to reduce the Flexx rate even though base rate had fallen  and so its decision not to 
reduce the Flexx rate was a fair one in all the circumstances.
Im not going to re-open that complaint here, or reconsider that outcome. Mr C and Mrs D 
accepted it at the time, deciding not to exercise their right to appeal it to an ombudsman. 
And I dont think the fact that Godiva has increased the Flexx rate in 2022 is material new 
evidence which would change the outcome of the complaint about the 2020 decision. That 
decision was made based on the circumstances as they were at that time. And the increases 
in 2022 were separate decisions, based on separate circumstances. For the purposes of this 
complaint, the important question is whether the increases in the Flexx rate in 2022 were 
permitted under the contract and were fair in all the circumstances.
Ive set out the terms and conditions above. They say that Godiva can increase the rate to 
respond to changes in base rate. And it can increase the rate to reflect increased costs. 
In fact, Godiva has not passed on the base rate increases in full, as can be seen from the 
following table:
Month Base rate change Flexx rate change
December 2021 0.15% No change
February 2022 0.25% 0.15%
March 2022 0.25% 0.15%
May 2022 0.25% 0.15%
June 2022 0.25% 0.15%
August 2022 0.5% 0.25%
Godiva has explained that it looked at its anticipated costs and income, across its customer 
base. During this time, there were increases in the costs of funding its mortgage business. 
And, as rates increased, customers began to shop around more. That increased customer 
volatility meant that it had to hold more capital. 
As a result of those factors, it needed to increase the income from its mortgage business to 
reflect its increased costs and increased capital requirements. Godiva decided to spread the 
impact of the need to increase rates across its mortgage book. But it didnt pass on the 
increase in base rate in full, and it chose to apply higher increases to rates which were 
already lower. So in the period up to September 2022, while base rate increased by 1.65%, 
the Flexx rate increased by only 0.85%. And Godiva increased its standard variable rate by 
even less  on the basis that customers who were already paying a higher rate had less 
capacity to absorb increases than customers on the lower Flexx rate.
Ive reviewed the evidence Godiva has provided. Im satisfied its shown that its costs 
increased at this time. The increases to the Flexx rate were permitted by the terms and 
conditions, because base rate was increasing and so were Godivas costs. 
Ive then gone on to think about whether, notwithstanding the contractual power, increasing 
the interest rate Mr C and Mrs D were being asked to pay was fair and reasonable.
Godiva has shown that it only increased its mortgage rates overall to the extent necessary, 
and that it prioritised shielding customers already paying more from the full impact of the 
increases. Those are relevant considerations. I must also bear in mind that this is a flexible mortgage product. None of Mr C and Mrs Ds 
mortgages have early repayment charges. If Mr C and Mrs D were unhappy with any of the 
individual rate increases  or their cumulative effect  there was nothing to stop them either 
taking a replacement rate (such as a fixed rate) with Godiva, or moving their mortgage to 
another lender. But they have not done that. 
Even after the rate increases, the Flexx rate is a competitive product in the buy to let market. 
And while Mr C and Mrs D would, understandably, rather not have to pay the increased rate, 
Ive not seen any evidence that doing so caused them particular financial hardship. Its also 
important to note that these are not residential mortgages, secured over Mr C and Mrs D's 
home. They are buy to let mortgages, and represent one of the expenses of their property 
rental business. Its in the nature of running a business that operating costs can increase 
from time to time.
Taking all that into account, I dont think I can fairly uphold this complaint. Godiva has shown 
both that it had the contractual power to do what it did, and Im also satisfied that its shown 
that doing so was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman