DRN-2045704
The complaint
Mr W complains Ferratum UK Ltd (Ferratum) lent him money he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Mr W took out an instalment loan with Ferratum. The details for this loan are:
Date amount instalments monthly 
repaymentRepayment date
16 October 2019 £350 2 up to £242 Outstanding
When Mr W complained to Ferratum that the loan wasnt affordable it didnt agree. It says it 
was entitled to rely on the information Mr W gave about his income, and when it did so, 
along with carrying out a credit check, it saw that the loan was affordable for him. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ws complaint should not be upheld. He says 
although he didnt think Ferratum carried out proportionate checks for the loan, he thinks if it 
had it still would have seen the loan was affordable for Mr W. 
Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators view and said it should have conducted a thorough 
check. If it did, he says it would have noticed he had a high balance of unsecured debt and 
had defaulted on other credit. As both parties are still not in agreement, the complaint has 
come to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
W could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ws income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Ferratum should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ferratum did a number of checks before it lent to Mr W. It asked him for details of his income 
and has provided a screenshot of this. Ferratum also used a credit reference agency to 
gather some more information about Mr Ws financial situation at that time. It has provided 
the results from this check to our service, so I have been able to see what it saw at the time.
Mr Ws loan was for £350 to be repaid in 2 instalments with the highest repayment amount 
being £242. Ferratum says he told it he was earning around £1500. Ferratum says the credit 
agency check was satisfactory based on what it had in front of it. 
Our adjudicator concluded that Ferratum should have also asked about Mr Ws expenditure, 
but Im not persuaded it needed to. I can see the monthly repayment was a small proportion 
of Mr Ws declared income, the instalment amount was low, and this was his first loan. So, 
on balance, I think the checks carried out by Ferratum for this loan were proportionate.
Mr W has said that Ferratum should have seen he was in financial difficulty at the time with a 
high balance of unsecured debt and defaults and not lent to him as a result. Ferratum has 
confirmed that it used a Credit Reference Agency check as part of its affordability 
assessment. I have seen the results of this check and can see that there arent any defaults 
recorded. Not all of Mr Ws loans may have been recorded by this credit reference agency or 
the defaults that Mr W says he had on some of his accounts either. But in any case, there 
wasnt any requirement for Ferratum to carry out detailed credit checks  just that it needed 
to conduct proportionate checks. And as Ive said above, I think that proportionate checks 
would have shown that the loan was affordable for Mr W based on what he told them for the 
reasons I have already given.
Mr W says that Ferratum should have looked into his financial circumstances further and not 
agreed to lend to him. But Ferratum was entitled to rely on the information Mr W gave them. 
And overall, Im not satisfied that there was anything which should have made it think that he 
wouldnt be able to afford to repay the loan, or which ought to have prompted them to carry 
out more detailed checks.
In conclusion, I consider the affordability checks that Ferratum made on Mr Ws loan were 
proportionate and sufficient. So, I cant say now that it was wrong for Ferratum to give this 
loan to Mr W. And so, I cant require it to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Mark RichardsonOmbudsman