DRN-2848068
The complaint
Ms J has complained about the redress that Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) paid to her 
for the mis-sale of a payment insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy (account number ending 3848) taken 
alongside a loan in 2005. 
Ms J complained to Black Horse who upheld the complaint. It paid Ms J redress of 
£2,246.68. Ms J wasnt happy with the offer and referred her complaint to us. 
The adjudicator who looked at the offer thought it was fair and in line with how we would 
expect Black Horse to put the matter right. They explained to Ms J how the offer was 
calculated. 
Ms J didnt agree with the adjudicator. She maintained that she was due additional redress.
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the complaint has already been upheld by Black Horse, who has agreed to pay redress, I 
will not be considering the merits of the PPI sale. But I will be looking at the compensation 
that has been paid, and whether I think it is fair. 
When a business agrees to settle a complaint, we expect it to, as far as possible, put the 
customer back in the position they would have been in had they not taken out the PPI policy. 
Id expect it to refund the premiums paid for PPI, any interest paid on the premiums and any 
further charges caused by the PPI. 
We asked Black Horse for a breakdown of its calculations and from reviewing that, the 
original loan agreement and the statement of the payments Ms J paid, I think what it has 
done is fair. 
Ms J hasnt given me anything further to consider other than that she should be paid 
compensation for the PPI. But that is what Black Horse has already done. And from the 
information available, what Black Horse has offered and paid is correct. 
So overall, I think the offer made by Black Horse is fair and reasonable and in line with how I 
would expect a mis-sale on a single premium PPI policy to be put right. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that the offer made and paid by Black 
Horse Limited is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Js complaint. As Black 
Horse Limited has already paid the compensation to Ms J, it doesnt need to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman