DRN-2909798
The complaint
Ms Q complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Ms Q applied for a credit card from Aqua in July 2018 with a limit of £450. Further increases 
were agreed as follows:
Date Limit
July 2018 £450
November 2018 £1350
March 2019 £2100
October 2019 £2850
Aqua refunded interest and charges of £572.60 in September 2020. A Notice of Default was 
sent to Ms Q in October 2020 with the balance £2504.60.
Ms Q complained that the limit increases shouldnt have been given to her. She said the 
issue of the card was OK, as was the first limit increase to £1350. But after that, she couldnt 
afford to borrow the money. She cant now afford to pay back the debt. She was now 
suffering from mental health issues as a result.
Aqua said that the issue of the card was justified. Ms Qs application showed she had an 
income of £17450 per year, with an unsecured debt of £500. There were defaults on her 
credit file, but these were over 35 months before. There was a public record of a default 
also, but this was 13 months before. So, the card was issued. The limit increases were 
proactively offered by Aqua and Ms Q accepted these  she couldve opted out and declined 
them. The first limit increase was affordable  there were no arrears with any other lender 
and there were no active payday loans taken out. They agreed though that the increase to 
£2100 shouldnt have been given  as she was showing signs of financial difficulty. Shed 
exceeded her Aqua limit in the two months before, and there were arrears with another 
lender. Aqua refunded all charges applied after the increase (£51), and a proportion of 
interest - £521.60. Ms Qs account was closed, and she was asked to get in touch with 
Aquas customer care team to agree a payment plan.
 Ms Q brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator said that she believed the issue 
of the card wasnt appropriate. There were eight accounts showing as defaulted and there 
was also a CCJ. She thought there were no arrears showing because the accounts had 
likely been written off. She agreed the increase in March 2019 wasnt affordable  because 
Ms Q had exceeded the previous limit. So, she said all charges and interest on Ms Qs 
account should be refunded since the card was first issued in July 2018.
Aqua disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look at Ms Qs complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator. I think the first issue of the card was OK, as was 
the first increase of limit to £1350 in November 2018. But the subsequent increases 
shouldnt have been given.
When Ms Q applied for the card in July 2018, she said she had an income of over £17000 
per annum, with only £500 of other debts. She was single. Aquas research showed she had 
had eight defaults before  but these were over three years before, so that was OK. Our 
investigator believed that these may have been written off, so there were no arrears showing 
 but I dont think weve seen the information which shows this (e.g. Ms Qs credit file), so its 
not fair to conclude that. And, importantly, Ms Q said in her complaint to us that the card with 
a limit of £450 was affordable. So, for Aqua to issue the card with a modest limit of £450 
was OK.
The increase to £1350 in November 2018 also looks OK. There hadnt been any late 
payments, over limit situations or cash withdrawals  all signs of difficulty. And again, in her 
complaint, Ms Q said the increase to £1350 was still reasonable. And  she didnt opt out 
of the offered increase but accepted it.
Turning to the increase to £2100 in March 2019  Aqua in their final response letter, agreed 
it shouldnt have been offered to Ms Q. She was showing signs of financial difficulty. Shed 
exceeded her Aqua limit in the two months before, and there were arrears with another 
lender.
It follows that the further increase to £2850 in October 2019 also shouldnt have been given 
 unless there had been an improvement in Ms Qs situation by then. But there was a new 
payday loan taken out in April 2019, and there were nine cash advances in April to May 
2019. Also, Ms Q had paid late in May 2019. So, I could see no signs that Ms Qs financial 
situation had improved.
So  my provisional decision is that Aqua should refund all fees and interest from the time of 
the limit increase to £2100 in March 2019 to the date of a final decision. This only applies to 
the amount of borrowing over £2100  as the issue of the card and first limit increase to 
£1350 was OK. Interest of £521.60 and fees of £51 have already been refunded, so Aqua 
must refund any further interest and fees.
Aqua said in their final response  and have told us also  that Ms Q should now get in touch 
to tell Aqua about her circumstances, complete an income and expenditure form and agree a 
repayment plan for her remaining borrowing (after the interest and fees refund). This is the 
right thing to do for both Ms Q and Aqua.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Ms Q didnt make any comments. But Aqua said (in summary):
Theyd already made refunds of interest and fees up to September 2020, and asked 
Ms Q to engage with them to agree a payment plan, but she hadnt done so.
So  it doesnt seem right that they are being asked to refund further interest and 
fees since September 2020  when Ms Q hasnt been in touch with them. And if she 
had, its likely that they wouldve agreed an interest and fee-free arrangement 
anyway.The refunds that the provisional decision asks for amounts to late fees of £24 and 
interest of £74.44  because of the previous refunds made.
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hear what Aqua have said in response to the provisional decision  and I agree that its in 
Ms Qs interest to contact Aqua and agree a payment plan for the repayment of the 
remaining borrowing  so in sending this final decision, she must do that. But  Aquas 
comments dont change my provisional decision and so my final decision is unchanged from 
it  and for the reasons I gave within the provisional decision. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua must:
Refund interest and charges for any borrowing over £2100 from March 2019 to 
the date of a final decision, noting that refunds up to September 2020 have 
already been made. This to be credited to Ms Qs card account.
Ms Q should also contact Aqua to agree a repayment plan for the remaining debt.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman