DRN-1149980
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that he was provided with incorrect information by National Westminster 
Bank Plc when freezing a joint bank account held with his ex-partner. His ex-partner was 
later able to update the address on the account which caused him concern. 
What happened
Mr G's split with his ex-partner wasn't amicable. They held a joint account together which he 
wanted to close, but couldn't do so without his ex-partner's consent. So in February 2019 the 
account was frozen instead. Mr G says he was told the account would be 'locked down' and 
nothing could happen with it unless they both agreed. But in May 2019 his ex-partner 
updated her address details on another account, which automatically changed her address 
for this account. Mr G received a text about the change of address which alarmed him. 
Mr G contacted NatWest about the text and was passed through to several different 
departments. He was on the phone for about three hours, was given incorrect information 
about what had happened and was told on one occasion the amendment was incorrect. And 
although call backs about what happened were promised they weren't made. So Mr G 
complained.  NatWest agreed it hadn't handled his concerns well. It agreed he had been 
provided incorrect information, been on the phone for a long time and call backs weren't 
made. It also explained that he should have been told that address changes could take place 
on the account even though it was frozen. So it upheld his complaint and offered a total of 
£80 compensation - £30 for the time spent on the phone and £50 for the poor service 
provided.
Our investigator requested file information from NatWest. But to date this hasn't been 
received, despite involving senior colleagues. She accepted what Mr G had told her about 
what happened and concluded the offer already made was fair. Mr G feels listening to the 
calls he had with NatWest are imperative as he was provided with the wrong information on 
several occasions causing him distress and financial loss as he had to miss work. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its very disappointing NatWest hasn't provided the information we asked for to consider this 
complaint. It is aware of its obligations to comply with our investigation which includes 
information and file requests. 
However, I can see that NatWest agreed Mr G had been given incorrect information, had 
received poor service and had been on the phone for a number of hours to find out what had 
happened. So there doesn't appear to be any dispute about what happened - NatWest 
agrees things went wrong. I understand Mr G feels very strongly about us listening to the 
calls. Its not certain the calls were recorded (as they aren't required to be) but even if they 
were, as there is no dispute about what happened, I'm not sure they would have added 
anything to what we already know. As NatWest agreed things went wrong, what's left for me to consider is whether the 
compensation it has offered is appropriate. I do accept this must have been distressing for 
Mr G, not least of all because he understood that nothing could happen with the account.  I 
can fully appreciate that he might have thought someone had accessed the account. And to 
compound matters Mr G was then provided with incorrect information when he queried this. 
Understandably this would have been a worrying time for him. But I can see that this was 
resolved in a matter of days and the complaint answered a short time later. These are all 
things I have taken into account when deciding whether the compensation offered was fair. 
Mr G has said that this has also caused him a financial loss as he had to take a day sick 
because of the stress this caused (he had already taken his full allowance for the year which 
is why it was unpaid). In support of that he has provided a wage slip showing a day's unpaid 
leave. But I don't find this persuasive evidence that NatWest has caused him a financial loss. 
I say this because the wage slip refers to a pay date of 25 March 2019.  This was nearly two 
months prior to Mr G's ex-partner changing the address. Mr G didn't know that wrong 
information had been provided about the account until then, so I'm not persuaded Mr G 
needing to contact NatWest about the address change can be the cause of that. It seems to 
me that Mr G needed to take time off work because of his general situation and his existing 
medical conditions, rather than any acts or omissions by NatWest.  
In the all the circumstances, I find the offer already made by NatWest of £80 in total to be a 
fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience Mr G was put to. If Mr G would now like to 
accept that, he should contact NatWest directly. 
I know Mr G is worried that any credit checks carried out on his ex-partner might appear on 
his credit history. That shouldn't happen as checks are carried out on the individual. But he 
is able to put a note on his credit file to explain he his no longer associated with his ex-
partner if he wishes. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint as it has already been fairly resolved.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2019.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman