DRN-3893922
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Blue Motor Finance Limited (Blue Motor Finance) irresponsibly 
granted her a hire purchase agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In July 2016, Mrs F acquired a used car financed by way of a hire purchase agreement from 
Blue Motor Finance. Mrs F was required to make 60 monthly repayments of £100.66 with 
one with a final payment due of £250.66. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£6,300. The agreement ended when it was settled in May 2018. 
Mrs F says that Blue Motor Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says 
if it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable and that she was struggling 
with her finances at the time. Blue Motor Finance didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment which included reviewing Mrs Fs credit file.  
On 13 December 2022 I issued my provisional decision. Whilst I agreed with our adjudicator 
that the complaint ought to be upheld I put forward a different redress method for 
compensating Mrs F, given that the agreement had been settled in May 2018. I set out an 
extract below:
The credit check Blue Motor Finance completed showed some details about Mrs Fs 
employment , although not her income. The check also showed some information about 
Mrs Fs other financial commitments at the time and also that she owned her own property. It 
also included information about some previous account defaults, the most recent being 
about a year earlier. Ms F also had credit owing elsewhere of around £9,000 and a joint loan 
with her partner of £4,500. Blue Motor Finance relied on her monthly income as being 
£1,800, as set out in her application. In fact the correct figure, allowing for earned income 
and benefits, was closer to £900. We know this from having had the opportunity to review 
Mrs Fs bank statements from four months before she took out the agreement. 
Had Blue Motor Finance taken steps to verify Ms Fs income, it likely would have seen that 
Mrs Fs earnings situation was not as strong as its checks had indicated. Her income was 
much lower than the credit data suggested whilst around a third of the income she received 
came from benefits, suggesting that she needed financial help to meet her daily expenditure. 
I think all this shows its unlikely that Mrs F would be able to afford to sustainably repay the 
new agreement as well as her existing commitments. I think Blue Motor Finance would likely 
have found this out too if it had completed proportionate checks. 
I also think it would have been proportionate for Blue Motor Finance to have found out more 
about Mrs Fs committed expenditure. I think it would be reasonable to place significant 
weight on the information contained in Mrs Fs bank statements as to what would most likely 
have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed four months of bank statements leading up to the lending decision. These 
show that, although Mrs Fs regular outgoings were lower given that a family member was 
paying the utility bills she was still having to find money to meet food spending, credit card 
bills and other incidental daily costs. Her income was only just matching her level of 
expenditure. This strongly suggests that given Mrs Fs existing debt commitments, taken 
alongside her existing debt and daily living costs, would not leave her with any disposable 
income to pay the amount due under the agreement. 
It follows that I currently dont consider Mrs F would have had enough available disposable 
income to be able sustainably to afford the addition monthly cost of £100.66 under the 
agreement. Blue Motor Finance therefore didnt act fairly by approving the finance.
Blue Motor Finance responded to my provisional decision to say that Mrs F is not due a 
refund because she has paid less than the total cash price of her car. 
Mrs F however says she thinks she has paid more than the total cash price of the car and is 
therefore due a refund. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Blue Motor Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Neither Blue Motor Finance nor Mrs F have challenged the reasons Ive given for upholding 
the complaint. But having been made aware that Mrs F is concerned about the redress I set 
out in my provisional decision, I want to explain about our approach in awarding 
compensation in this complaint in a bit more detail. 
The position is that the hire purchase agreement is fully settled and Blue Motor Finance has 
received everything that was due under the agreement at the point of settlement. This took 
place in May 2018, after the car was in a road traffic accident in December 2017 that led to it 
being written off by Mrs Fs insurers. 
As I am upholding the complaint, I dont consider it would be fair for Blue Motor Finance to 
charge interest or other fees on the amount borrowed. This is because it should never have 
granted the borrowing in the first place. 
Ive seen that Mrs Fs insurers paid the sum of £2,765.47 from the balance that was due 
under the agreement. This should be treated in the same way as if it was money paid by 
Mrs F to Blue Motor Finance. This is because it was paid to Blue Motor Finance on Mrs Fs 
behalf. 
If the amount of money paid by the insurer was more than was needed to pay amount 
needed to the settle the agreement, such overpayment would need to be paid to Mrs F. 
Given that we think fair and reasonable redress is that the amount to settle the finance 
should only have been the original cash price of the car, and there has been no 
overpayment by Mrs Fs insurer, no money needs to be returned to Mrs F. At the point of 
settlement, Mrs F had paid a total of £2,193.57. Mrs F had therefore paid less than the 
£3,775 total cash value of the car and so she is not due a refund. From what Ive seen, because Mrs S and her insurers have not paid more the total cash 
price of the car, Blue Motor Finance doesnt need to do anything more by way of paying 
redress.
Putting things right  what Blue Motor Finance needs to do
As I dont think Blue Motor Finance ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair 
for it to be able to charge Mrs F any interest or charges under the agreement.
To settle Mrs Fs complaint, we therefore require Blue Motor Finance to do the following:
Refund any payments Mrs F or her car insurer have made in excess of £3,775, 
representing the original cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per 
year* from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Fs credit file regarding the 
agreement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Blue Motor Finance Limited to put things right in 
accordance with the redress Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman