DRN-2981121
The complaint
Mr C complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr C was provided with four loans by Mr Lender. Further details of the loans are set out 
below.
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 05/10/2017 01/11/2017 6 £300.00
2 01/11/2017 18/03/2018 6 £400.00
3 18/03/2018 24/05/2018 6 £500.00
4 24/05/2018 29/03/2019 12 £1,000.00
Mr C says that Mr Lender provided him with rollover loans that he couldnt afford to repay.
Mr Lender says that before the loans were provided it carried out employment, affordability 
and credit checks. It says that Mr C was in full time employment at the time of the loans and 
his credit checks didnt raise concerns. It says based on its checks the loan repayments 
were affordable. While it didnt accept that its lending was irresponsible it did, as a gesture of 
goodwill, offer Mr C a voucher.
Mr C didnt accept Mr Lenders response to his complaint or its gesture of goodwill and 
referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator partially upheld this complaint. He didnt think there was enough to say that 
loans 1 to 3 shouldnt have been provided but though that by loan 4, Mr Lender should l 
have realised that Mr C was struggling to manage his money. Therefore, he upheld the 
complaint in regard to loan 4.
Mr Lender didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that it wasnt aware that Mr C was 
having problems managing his money. It said that at the time of loan 4, Mr Cs credit score 
was improving, and his previous repayments had been on time. It said Mr C was provided 
with the adequate explanations document which stated that the loan shouldnt be taken if the 
consumer was unsure they could meet the repayments or if they were in financial difficulty. It 
noted that while loan 4 was for a higher amount it was repayable over 12 monthly 
instalments with the highest repayment being for 15% of Mr Cs net monthly income. It said 
that Mr C made his repayments due on loan 4 on time and without any signs of financial 
difficulty. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Before Mr Lender provided the loans it carried out checks which included credit checks and 
gathering information about Mr Cs income and expenses. Mr Cs monthly income was 
recorded as £1,400 throughout the time of the lending and his expenses were recorded as 
£618 before loan 1 and increased to £911 for the following three loans. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint in regard to loans 1 to 3. Having considered the 
size of the repayments compared to Mr Cs monthly income I think at this early stage in the 
lending relationship the checks carried out were proportionate. The income and expenses 
information suggested loans 1 to 3 were affordable and while the credit checks recorded 
Mr C as having one other short term loan outstanding I dont think this information was enough to say that further checks were required at this stage. Therefore I do not find that Mr 
Lender was wrong to provide loans 1 to 3. 
By loan 4, Mr C had been borrowing from Mr Lender for around seven months and I think the 
number of loans and duration of borrowing was such that the pattern of borrowing could be 
identified. Loan 4 was provided on the same day as loan 3 was repaid. This was the third 
time this had happened as on each of the previous loans, Mr C had taken out a larger loan 
on the day the loan was repaid. The amount Mr C borrowed had increased from £300 for 
loan 1 to £1,000 for loan 4. So, while I note that loan 4 was repayable over more monthly 
instalments, I think the pattern of borrowing suggested that Mr C was struggling to 
sustainably make his repayments. Because of this I agree with our adjudicator that loan 4 
shouldnt have been provided as it was unlikely it was sustainably affordable for Mr C.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr C after loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
As I am upholding this complaint in regard to loan 4, PDL Finance Limited trading as 
Mr Lender should:
refund all interest and charges that Mr C paid on loan 4 along with interest of 8% 
simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse information recorded about loan 4 from Mr C's credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loan 4. PDL Finance Limited 
trading as Mr Lender should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman