DRN-2975439
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund money she lost after falling 
victim to fraud.
What happened
From June 2015 to September 2015 Mrs M was the victim of fraud, which resulted in her 
sending eight payments totalling over £77,000 to fraudsters. The payments Mrs M made 
were to accounts within the UK and international accounts. 
For ease, Ive included details of the payments made as part of the scam.
Date Time Payment type Method Amount
15/6/2015 12:34 Bill payment - 
new payeeOnline banking £9,045
8/7/2015 15:37 Faster Payment 
 new payeeOnline banking £9,035
12/8/2015 10:19 Foreign 
payment  new 
payeeOnline banking £19,600
17/9/2015 09:58 Foreign 
payment Online banking £9,500
17/9/2015 10:04 Foreign 
paymentOnline banking £9,500
17/9/2015 10:07 Foreign 
paymentOnline banking £9,500
18/9/2015 10:50 Foreign 
payment Online banking £6,365
24/9/2015 08:34 Faster Payment 
 new payee Online banking £5,000
total £77,860
Based on the submissions made by both parties, I understand the fraud occurred as follows.
In June 2015, Mrs M received a call from an individual purporting to be a broker from an 
investment company. Unbeknown to Mrs M at the time, the individual was a fraudster. The 
fraudster told Mrs M that the company bought and sold shares for people. He told her they 
were very successful and could make her a good return on her money. Initially, Mrs M says 
she told the fraudster she wasnt interested in buying shares.
Mrs M says she continued to receive calls. Shes explained she was told a rep would be 
looking after her and another individual spoke to her on the phone. Again, unbeknown to 
Mrs M she was speaking with another fraudster. She says she was sent information on 
businesses hed carried out for clients. Due to the limited information available, it is not clear 
whether Mrs M was shown information that related to investments the fraudsters were 
making for other clients, but Mrs M has said after reading the information she was sent, she 
decided to invest and was told how much money she should send. Mrs M says she was 
advised what shares she would be investing in at this stage, but she cant recall what this 
was.
When recollecting what happened, Mrs M mentioned to us that the fraudsters referred to 
different events happening in the UK during the conversations with her, such as the Queen 
visiting, which made them appear genuine to her. But after further thinking Mrs M decided 
against investing after all.
Mrs M was called by the fraudsters and was told theyd already bought the shares on her 
behalf and, if she didnt buy the shares, theyd take her to court as theyd be out of pocket 
and she was responsible.
Mrs M didnt want to go to court so she decided to buy the shares. She was told to transfer 
around £10,000 and was given the name of a person to transfer the payment to. She was 
told this was the company secretary and told this is the way the company operates. Mrs M 
explained to our service she received paperwork showing the shares and the profit shed 
receive. Shes told us these had an official looking letterhead.
Mrs M says she was carried along by what happened and was also too scared to refuse 
further payments. Mrs M adds that after the first payment she was given bank account 
numbers to transfer the payments to.
Mrs M said she wasnt given information about when shed receive any profits and had 
assumed that shed be able to call and obtain the profits when she wanted to. She recalled 
the last payments she made were shares in a well-known retailer and that she needed to 
make the payments urgently. The payments were funded by cashing in her premium bonds.
Mrs M became aware shed been the victim of scam when she was contacted by the police 
in November 2015 in relation to one of the parties shed been in contact with - theyd been 
taken to court.
Mrs M contacted Lloyds to report the scam on 5 November 2015. Lloyds say on being made 
aware of the scam it contacted the receiving banks. It said only one receiving bank for one of 
the payments replied and that was to advise no funds remained. Lloyds adds no response 
was received from the other receiving banks, but it assumes that no funds remained. 
Mrs M explained after the shock and worry, she was hospitalised and on leaving hospital she 
destroyed the paperwork shed received as part of the scam. Shes told us that she didnt 
want anyone to see what shed done given how she felt after being scammed. 
It was after Mrs M received a letter from HMRC in December 2019 asking for information 
relating to the international payments shed made as part of this scam that she then started 
making enquiries with the police. This then led to Mrs M raising a complaint to Lloyds 
through our service in December 2020.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. In its final response in February 2021, it said given the 
dates of the payments made by Mrs M and the type of the payments  some being 
international payments - the voluntary code known as the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) does not apply here. And so, Mrs M doesnt qualify for a refund under the CRM code. 
Lloyds in its submission to our service added that it doesnt believe Mrs M did sufficient 
validation prior to investing such sums of money.
One of our investigators looked into things and she thought Lloyds ought to have done more 
to prevent the payments and Mrs Ms losses.Lloyds disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for the case to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman. Lloyds in its response reiterate that it doesnt appear Mrs M was 
completely under the spell of the fraudsters. That she has admitted the payments were 
made to avoid being taken to court. It doesnt think Mrs M did enough to protect herself and, 
therefore, doesnt think it is fair for the bank to be expected to refund the money she has 
lost. It has also questioned why Mrs M didnt raise the complaint earlier than she did.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and Ill now explain my reasons why.
At the outset I think it is important to recognise, that due to the time thats passed there is 
limited information available from both parties. This is not entirely surprising given how long 
has since passed since 2015. Im also mindful that over time memories of events can fade. 
So, where there is a difference in Mrs Ms and Lloyds version of events or limited 
information available, I will base my findings on what I think is more likely than not to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I am also aware Lloyds has asked why Mrs M didnt raise a complaint earlier than she did if 
she was unhappy after she contacted it in November 2015.I understand Lloyds reference to 
this also relates to there now being limited information due to the passage of time. Ive 
thought carefully about this point, but I dont think the delay in raising the complaint is 
unreasonable in this particular case. I say this because, Mrs M was unwell and hospitalised 
following the scam and it being brought to light by the police contact. Following this, Mrs M 
has also indicated that she felt shame at falling victim to a scam and sending the payments, 
which fed into her destroying the documentation shed received from the fraudsters. 
Alongside this, Mrs M also didnt think there was hope of a recovery after Lloyds told her the 
money was gone and the police told her the case was closed. As explained above, after she 
received communication from HMRC and she made enquiries with the police, Mrs M then 
found her way to our service and asked for help. It was at this point; our service referred the 
complaint to Lloyds.
And had Lloyds felt more information was needed in respect of the scam Mrs M fell victim to, 
I wouldve expected it to have requested this information and investigated the matter further 
when the claim was raised back in 2015. If it now considers there is limited information due 
to this, then I dont think Mrs M can be held responsible for this.
I also acknowledge that Mrs M has told us she destroyed the paperwork shed received as 
part of the scam. I can understand why she destroyed the documents at this time, not as an 
attempt to hide anything, but more because of how she felt following the effects of the scam. 
She also didnt think she had prospects for pursuing the loss  as the police told her the 
case was closed and, because Lloyds had also said the money had gone. Mrs M thought 
shed never see the money again.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The guidance and best practice available to banks when the events in question transpired 
about how to spot and help protect customers from fraud were more limited than they are 
today. But the broad principle, to pay due regard to the interests of customers and treat them 
fairly, existed. The Payment Services Regulations 2009 (PSRs) were also in place. And 
overall, I consider Lloyds should, fairly and reasonably;
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Did Lloyds act fairly and reasonably when it processed the payment instruction?
Theres no dispute these were authorised payments even though Mrs M was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. So, under the Payment Services Regulations 2009, Mrs M is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
Lloyds by its own submission recognise the payments Mrs M made as part of this scam were 
not in line with the usual account activity in 2015. It follows that I think Lloyds ought to have 
got in touch with Mrs M to discuss the payments she was asking to make from the first 
payment. Lloyds has said its records indicate it is likely it spoke with Mrs M about the 
payments. It said having looked at its system reports there is a footprint of staff IDs on 
Mrs Ms account around the time of the scam payments. It adds that on checking the call 
system it found call details and from these dates, it looks like it spoke with Mrs M before the 
payments of £9,350 on 8 July 2015 and £19,600 on 12 August 2015. From these call details 
it also adds its possible it spoke to Mrs M after the three international payments on 
17 September 2015. Although, given the time thats passed there are no call notes relating 
to these or call recordings. While this is understandable due to the time thats passed, this 
means I cant be sure about what was said or what was discussed during this contact or 
indeed safely conclude that the payments in question here were what were spoken about. 
Ive also taken into account that our investigator asked Mrs M if she recalled speaking with 
Lloyds about any of the payments. She recollected speaking with NS&I about her premium 
bonds and she occasionally called the bank if she saw something on her statements that she 
wanted to check. But she didnt recall any conversation with Lloyds relating to the payments 
she sent to the fraudsters. 
Where there is a lack of information or conflicting information, I must reach my findings 
based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened. And while I recognise the 
banks obligations were somewhat less stringent at the time the payments were made 
compared to today, I think that if Lloyds had asked Mrs M even basic questions about the 
payments then the scam wouldve more likely than not have been uncovered. I say this because Mrs M wasnt coached by the fraudsters about what to say or given a cover story.  
So if shed been asked what the payments were for, I think she probably would have said it 
was for investment/shares. And if asked how the investment came about, I think its likely 
she would have shared that shed been cold-called by the alleged investment company and 
that they were pressuring her to buy shares and threatening to take her to court if she didnt 
pay. 
Im also mindful that Mrs M was in her early seventies at the time of the payments, and I 
think this is a relevant factor here. Mrs Ms age profile is one that is disproportionately 
targeted by fraudsters and this is something that has been recognised by the industry for a 
long time.
Investment scams werent uncommon in 2015 and Mrs Ms situation shares some of the 
common tactics and features employed by fraudsters. I think the bank ought to have known 
about, and picked up, on these warning signs.
Overall, Im persuaded Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have done more here and that 
had it done so; Mrs Ms loss couldve been prevented.
Should Mrs M bear some responsibility by way of contributory negligence?
When answering this question, Ive thought carefully about what Lloyds obligations were, as 
set out above. But another key issue is whether Mrs M acted reasonably, taking into account 
all the circumstances in this particular case.
Ive carefully considered everything Ive seen and been told by both Mrs M and Lloyds. In 
particular, Ive thought about Lloyds belief that Mrs M didnt do enough to protect herself and 
that she doesnt appear to have been completely under the spell of the fraudsters  the bank 
points out that Mrs M has admitted she made the payments in order to avoid being taken to 
court. It adds that being under the spell of the fraudsters and thinking the investment 
opportunity was genuine is different to being scared of being taken to court. Lloyds doesnt 
think it is possible for Mrs M to hold both beliefs at once. In addition, Lloyds has highlighted 
that Mrs M was cold-called and the threat of being taken to court ought to have been a red 
flag to her. It has also mentioned Mrs M ought to have done research before sending the 
money.
As Ive referred to previously within this decision, the red flags Lloyds mention are common 
tactics and features of investments scams and, I agree these ought to be red flags for a 
bank. But Mrs M wasnt an experienced investor and I can understand why she didnt see 
these things as red flags. Im also mindful that the spell wasnt broken until the police 
contacted Mrs M about one of the fraudsters after the payments had been made. So overall, 
Ive not seen anything to suggest Mrs M thought, or ought to have thought, what she was 
being told was implausible.
All things considered, I believe Mrs M was simply the unwitting victim of clever fraudsters 
and so there was no contributory negligence on this occasion.
Impact on Mrs M
Mrs M has told us that after the scam became known she was hospitalised and was very 
unwell.
While I recognise the bulk of that impact follows directly from the actions of the fraudsters. 
I consider that Lloyds could have prevented Mrs M from losing the money she did as a result 
of the scam and, thereby, significantly reduced the overall impact on Mrs M.Considering everything, I agree with our investigators recommendation that Lloyds should 
pay Mrs M £300 in compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced as a result of their actions.
Paying interest
With the above in mind, I think the bank should pay interest on the money Mrs M has lost as 
part of this scam. I say this because, the money she lost to this scam otherwise would have 
remained in her savings accounts/premium bonds and/or would have remained in her 
current accounts and/or would otherwise have been spent  and so Mrs M has been 
deprived of the use of this money. 
Im aware the money that was sent to the fraudsters originated from a number of different 
accounts Mrs M held with Lloyds banking group. And she also withdrew money from her 
premium bonds which she held with NS&I. In view of this, it has been a little difficult to 
identify where all the money has originated from, given the number of accounts here  so in 
my recommendations, I am making a pragmatic award based on the information available to 
me. 
For completeness, when adding up the sums Mrs M paid into her account in order to make 
the scam payments, I can see there is a £135 difference between the amounts credited and 
the total amount sent to the fraudsters. In light of this, I have reduced the recommended 
redress by £135. This is because, on balance, I think it is more likely than not that this £135 
remained within Mrs Ms Lloyds current account - the account the payments were sent from. 
When looking at the payment of £9,045 that was made, I note that Mrs M transferred £5,000 
into her account from a saver account she held with Lloyds, prior to sending this payment.
To reflect this, I have pragmatically calculated an amount which I think should fairly and 
reasonably be refunded at that associated saver account interest rate. 
In view of my pragmatic recommendations, I have also recommended interest be paid on the 
£40,000 Mrs M withdraw from her premium bonds for the date they credited her account. I 
have taken this view, as had the scam been prevented, Im persuaded on balance, these 
funds would not have been withdrawn. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should;
Refund Mrs M the £77,860 shes lost through the scam. Plus pay interest as follows:
oFor £40,000 from 15 September 2015 to the date of the settlement calculate 
interest at the historic, changing annual premium bond rate as published on 
NS&Is website - https://www.nsandi.com/historical-interest-rates .
oFor £6,442 from 15 June 2015 to the date of settlement calculate interest at a 
rate of 8% simple per year. 
oFor £2,468 from 15 June 2015 to the date of the settlement calculate interest 
at the associated Lloyds Standard Saver account rate. 
oFor £9,350 from 8 July 2015 to the date of settlement calculate interest at the 
associated Halifax Instant Saver account rate. 
oFor £19,600 from 12 August 2015 to the date of the settlement calculate 
interest at the associated Halifax Isa Saver account rate. 
Refund the international charges for the international payments Mrs M made as part 
of the scam.
Pay Mrs M £300 for the material distress and inconvenience she experienced.
 If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs M a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman