DRN-2683918
The complaint
Mr W complains that UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr W was given a single loan by UK Credit. He told UK Credit that the loan purpose 
was debt consolidation  in other words, to pay other debt. The main loan details are 
as follows: 
Date loan 
takenLoan status Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAPR
August 
2016Not paid £10,000 60 months £339.68 37.9%
Mr Ws complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators who didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld or that UK Credit needed to pay anything to Mr W.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view. He mainly said (and this is just a brief 
summary in my own words) that if our investigator had seen more of his bank 
statements then he might have come to a different opinion and in borderline cases 
Mr W suggested that at least some interest could be refunded. He told us that he was 
vulnerable and irresponsible when he got into financial difficulty and this should be 
taken into account. He felt that being loaned money for debt consolidation wasnt 
helpful if it put someone in double debt and in his case his money problems spiralled 
out of control. 
Mr W has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint so it comes to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr W that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant to the outcome. I havent 
commented on everything Mr W has said during the course of this complaint where theres 
nothing more I can usefully add to what our investigator has said in response already. But 
I will deal with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of this complaint. And 
I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision. 
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. 
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account the loan amount, the cost of the 
repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender should 
also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers 
overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr W. And Ive thought carefully about the following key 
questions:
Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr W would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Was UK Credits lending decision fair?
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?UK Credit gathered some information from Mr W before it agreed the loan. It asked him for 
details of his income and verified this by looking at payslip information. UK Credit did a credit 
check and during a phone call it asked Mr W about his normal monthly spending and 
discussed in some detail how he planned to use the loan and which debts he would be 
repaying. 
.
Mr Ws monthly income was recorded as £1650. UK Credit didnt feel there was anything 
adverse shown on its credit checks and it worked out that after taking out this loan and using 
it to pay the debts Mr W had mentioned, he would still have around £804 spare cash. So UK 
Credit concluded that the monthly repayment of £339.68 on this loan shouldve been 
affordable for him. And it said using its loan in the way Mr W had told UK Credit he planned 
to do would reduce the amount he was currently paying towards servicing his debts. So this 
led UK Credit to conclude that the loan was comfortably affordable for Mr W and that it was 
fair to lend to him. 
Mr W was entering into a very significant commitment with UK Credit. He would need to 
make substantial monthly repayments on this loan for the next 5 years. So, like our 
investigator, I dont think that the checks UK Credit did were enough. I would expect that 
UK Credit would want to gather, and independently check, some more detailed 
information about Mr Ws financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. And 
I think it would have been proportionate for UK Credit to have done more in-depth checks 
to verify it had a proper understanding of the true state of Mr Ws finances before 
agreeing the loan.
But although I dont think the checks UK Credit did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
that isnt a good enough reason for me to be able to uphold Mr Ws complaint. In order for 
Mr Ws complaint to succeed, I would need to be able to say that proportionate checks 
would have shown UK Credit it was likely that Mr W couldnt sustainably afford the 
repayments. 
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. 
Mr W has provided us with some bank statements which I think provide a useful insight into 
his overall financial situation at the time. And I've taken into account everything that Mr W 
has told me and what he said in his response to our investigators view. 
I havent seen enough overall to make me think that even if UK Credit had sought a fuller 
picture of Mr Ws finances it shouldve realised that the loan wasnt sustainable for him. 
I say this because the credit check UK Credit did suggested Mr W was managing his 
credit reasonably well - he had no indications of insolvency, court judgements or any 
defaults or any other indicators on his credit report of serious financial difficulty. 
Mr W had around £1,400 available credit that he wasnt using. So although Mr W was £13 
over the credit limit on one of his credit cards I think its fair to say that wouldve looked 
more like an unintentional overspend rather than a sign he had serious problems 
managing his money. He had another credit card with a £200 credit limit and a balance 
outstanding of just £24. 
And although Mr W was already servicing debt of around £25,230, this loan from UK 
Credit was intended to repay some of that debt  so this meant it wouldnt be adding to 
Mr Ws overall indebtedness. 
I can see from the bank statements Mr W has sent me that his account slipped into overdraft 
during the statement period in the run up to him taking out this loan and he was paying loans taken with some other high cost lenders. But it isnt unusual for applicants for this type of 
high cost loan to have other borrowing or even an impaired credit record  and these things 
wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
Mr Ws bank account looked to be mostly in credit from what I've seen and his statements 
show quite a lot of spending on non-essential things that Mr W could potentially have cut 
back on if he had wanted to make some savings. 
I've taken into account everything that I think its likely UK Credit shouldve found out about 
Mr Ws actual financial situation when he applied for this loan  and I havent seen enough to 
make me think that UK Credit ought to have made a different lending decision had it seen all 
this information. I think it wouldve been reasonable to conclude that the loan it provided still 
looked like it ought to be affordable for Mr W and it was fair to lend to him.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Ws point about his vulnerability at the time and that, 
potentially, there was a risk that Mr W would be adding to his debt problems with this loan. 
I've carefully listened to the call recording when Mr W discussed his financial situation and 
his debt consolidation plans. UK Credit made careful note of exactly how Mr W said he 
planned to use the loan it provided and worked out that this should mean that Mr W would 
be around £100 better off each month after taking this loan. I dont think there were any 
clues in the phone call he had with UK Credit that should have alerted it to any particular 
vulnerability on Mr Ws part. He was fully engaged in the loan application process, things 
were properly explained, including the overall cost of the loan and what the monthly 
repayments would be and Mr W seemed happy to agree these terms at the time. 
Even allowing for the fact that this loan couldnt have cleared all of Mr Ws outstanding debt 
I think he could still have used it to help him significantly lower his monthly credit 
commitment. So I cant fairly say that UK Credit provided the loan irresponsibly or unfairly.
I appreciate that Mr W feels strongly about this complaint and that he will be disappointed in 
my decision. And Im sorry that he has run into money problems and had difficulty paying 
this loan. But I dont think UK Credit could reasonably have foreseen this when it provided 
this loan to him. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that UK Credit acted unfairly in any other way 
towards Mr W. So I havent seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Ws irresponsible 
lending complaint. This means I cant fairly say that UK Credit needs to do anything to 
put things right for Mr W.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr W but I think it is reasonable for 
UK Credit to expect him to repay what he has borrowed  although on flexible terms to 
reflect his financial situation while he has continuing money problems. 
I take this opportunity to remind UK Credit (or any a third-party debt collection agent) that it 
should always discuss payment options constructively with Mr W and treat him fairly and 
sympathetically if Mr W needs further time to pay what he still owes.
I can see that Mr W has already made contact with a debt charity. If Mr W would like further 
help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get free debt advice (and 
other help) on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. 
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
UK Credit Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman