DRN-4298273
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) relates to the temporary loss of title deeds 
(deeds) to his property which had been placed into their safekeeping. I issued my 
Provisional Decision on the 25 July 2023 and both Ms U on behalf of Mr P and Lloyds have 
responded. Lloyds have accepted the decision, but Ms U has asked me to reconsider the 
direct financial loss she feels Mr P has sustained.
What happened
Mr Ps daughter Ms U acts on Mr Ps behalf as he no longer has capacity to manage his 
affairs. At the material time, Mr P was resident in a nursing home and Ms U was managing 
the sale of his property. She had located her fathers handwritten note indicating that Lloyds 
Bank Central Store Centre held the deeds. The note also indicated she should contact the 
local branch for further details. 
As she required the deeds for the solicitors instructed on the sale, in June 2022 Ms U 
contacted the local branch and asked the manager to speak with the solicitors regarding the 
deeds. Sometime later Lloyds told her that the deeds could not be found, and without a 
mortgage reference number it would be impossible to locate them. Ms U then liaised with 
various elements of Lloyds throughout July, August, September, and October, trying to 
locate the deeds, but without success.
When Ms U brought this complaint to our service she said matters had been ongoing for four 
months and the lack of title deeds was holding up the sale of the property. She said that one 
purchaser had withdrawn from the sale. She explained that the sale proceeds were needed 
to pay for her fathers home fees.
In December 2022, having investigated Ms Us complaint, Lloyds rejected it explaining that 
Mr P had taken out a mortgage in the 1950s and redeemed it in the 1970s. Having 
searched their systems, they had no record of her fathers mortgage account and could not 
find the deeds. 
Ms U then contacted a different branch of Lloyds in February 2023 and was told by the 
assistant manager, in March, that the deeds had been located and would be sent to a 
branch for her to collect. Unfortunately, this turned out to be incorrect. Ms Us solicitors then 
contacted Lloyds. Following a further search by a different Lloyds employee in or around 
May 2023 the deeds were then located.
Ms U has said that all of this has caused her and her father stress and that she couldnt put 
the house on the market until the deeds had been found. She also complains that because 
of the delay in locating the deeds this led to the loss of a sale and when the property was 
eventually sold the offer made was £50,000 less.
Mr P was unhappy with Lloyds final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Lloyds hadnt done 
anything wrong and had dealt with the complaint fairly. Ms U didnt agree and asked for the 
complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because I dont need to comment on every 
individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
The starting point to this complaint is that Mr P placed his deeds into Lloyds custody for 
safekeeping. They were therefore bound to keep the documents safe and produce them 
upon request. This they failed to do. Much has been made about the passage of time, and 
the movement of the deeds over the years and the effect of all of that upon Lloyds ability to 
keep track of them. It is not a complicated process to record the name, address, and any 
other identifying factors in order to keep deeds safe. The simple point, well made by Ms U 
repeatedly, is that Lloyds lost the deeds when they ought not, and of course, it was 
ultimately able to locate them since they were there to be found. For Lloyds part ultimately 
they have accepted that they failed to provide Mr P with the level of service he was entitled 
to receive, and so the issue now becomes what level of redress is appropriate.
In our investigators second view she highlighted the difference between the two types of 
compensation this service can consider. I shall deal first with compensation for trouble and 
upset. Ms U has brought the complaint on behalf of her father. As she is representative she 
cannot make a claim for any trouble and upset she may have experienced in representing 
her father. I understand she holds a Power of Attorney for her father, but that simply means 
she is his legal representative acting on his behalf. She is not the complainant herself. It is 
only the trouble and upset her father has suffered which is relevant since he is the 
complainant. Mr P however has not dealt with this complaint himself and so to an extent has 
been shielded by Ms U from the inconvenience in having to contact and liaise with the 
varying members of Lloyds staff. I have no doubt that Ms U will have spoken to her father 
about the loss of the deeds, especially when Lloyds were initially saying they could not find 
them. I am quite certain that would have caused him some distress. 
When this service considers what an appropriate level of compensation might be, we 
consider a variety of factors, including the trouble, upset, distress and inconvenience that 
may have been caused and we try to place customers back into the position they would 
otherwise have been in. We categorise awards and examples of these can be found on our 
website. What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the facts of each 
case are different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all the 
circumstances of the case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the 
effect upon the complainant of any particular service failures.
When this service considers the second type of compensation it is for the complainant to 
prove that there has been a financial loss incurred. Ms U has asked me to reconsider this 
element of compensation. She has said that her fathers house has still not been sold and 
there remains a liability for the propertys utilities which he would not have had if the property 
had been sold. She accepts that is not entirely due to Lloyds. She also says that the property 
market has plummeted, and house prices have fallen placing her father in a worse position 
than a year ago.  I understand Ms U says a purchaser pulled out of the sale because the deeds could not be 
found, and for the same reason the property could not be rented out, but Im afraid I cannot 
accept that proposition. I know Mr Ps property is unregistered and it will require first 
registration, but there does exist a procedure to cater for the scenario where a person no 
longer has possession of the deeds. It is not uncommon for deeds to have been lost or 
misplaced. Equally, possession of the deeds is simply not required to draw up and execute a 
tenancy agreement. I am therefore not persuaded that the mis location of the deeds is 
responsible for the loss of any sale or renting of the property. 
As I have found that the temporary loss of deeds was not a factor in losing the initial sale or 
any subsequent sales, or indeed renting the property, the utilities, insurance, and additional 
solicitors fees have not arisen because of that. So, I cant say any of these costs have been 
caused by Lloyds. Further there is no evidence of such losses. 
So, I cant say that Ms U, on behalf of Mr P, can prove that there has been a direct financial 
loss caused by Lloyds.
Putting things right
In my view, any award for the trouble and upset caused here also needs to be balanced and 
measured against the ups and downs of life which we all face when dealing with other 
people, businesses, and organisations, and recognising that at times it can be inconvenient. 
So, having weighed up all the evidence, I think the Lloyds should pay Mr P £250 as 
recompense for the service failures. I know Ms U feels this is too little, but I do think it 
reflects the impact of Lloyds error.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr P £250 to reflect the trouble and 
upset caused to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman