DRN-2850103
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Bamboo Limited (Bamboo) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mrs C was given two loans by Bamboo. The details are as follows:
Number Date taken Capital 
amountInstalments Monthly 
repaymentTotal to 
repay
1 21/08/2018 £4,500.00 24 months £277.78 £6,666.72
2 01/07/2019 £5,204.40 24 months £321.26 £7,710.24
Mrs C has an amount left outstanding to repay to a third party.
Mrs Cs complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that the
checks Bamboo had done before agreeing both loans had been sufficient. She also felt after 
looking at what Bamboo would have had in front of it, that it made fair lending decisions. So, 
she didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Mrs C didnt agree with our investigator. She said that Bamboo should have carried out 
detailed checks. She says if they had asked for bank statements, they would have seen that 
she couldnt afford the loans and then wouldnt have lent to her in the first place.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mrs C accepts my decision it 
is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Cs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Bamboo gave these loans to Mrs C required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what 
she owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Bamboo had to think about whether repaying 
the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs C. In 
practice this meant that Bamboo had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause 
Mrs C undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 
Bamboo to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of any repayments on Mrs C.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether Bamboo did what it needed to before agreeing to 
lend to Mrs C.
Bamboo gathered some information from Mrs C before it agreed to both loans. On both 
occasions it asked her for her monthly income and then verified this amount using an online 
verification tool. It then asked her how much she paid for her accommodation, then used 
Office of National Statistics data to work out an average expenditure spend for the month. It 
finally then carried out a credit search to check against any existing credit commitments.
On both occasions, Mrs C was entering into a significant commitment with Bamboo. She 
was agreeing to make monthly repayments for a period of two years. So, I think it is right that 
Bamboo wanted to gather, and independently check (regarding her income and through the 
credit search), some detailed information about Mrs Cs financial circumstances before it 
agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks it did achieved that aim. I think on balance its 
checks were proportionate regarding both loans. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. So, Ive looked at the information
Bamboo gathered from Mrs C to check whether I agree it was appropriate for her to be given
the loans.
For the first loan, I can see that Bamboo had worked out Mrs Cs disposable income was 
over £1000 and around £740 after it had taken into consideration the loan repayment. This 
was early on in the lending relationship between the parties and I can see that the credit 
search Bamboo carried out, showed that Mrs C had no other credit commitments. From the 
information it gathered, I think it would have been apparent to Bamboo that the loan was 
affordable and there was nothing that it would have had in front of it that would have shown it 
she was struggling to manage her finances.
Mrs C took out her second loan almost a year after the first one. She repaid the outstanding 
balance of the first loan and had a surplus amount paid to her. The checks Bamboo carried 
out showed that Mrs C would have been left with a disposable income of over £600 after the 
loan repayment. It had factored into this, the credit commitments that had shown up on the 
search. The three outstanding loans that had recently appeared ought to have been of some 
concern to Bamboo. But Mrs C had not missed any repayments for these and as I have already concluded the repayment for these loans and this one would have been affordable 
for her. 
So, overall, I agree with our investigator. I dont think Bamboos proportionate checks would 
have suggested that Mrs C would have problems repaying these two loans. So, I dont think 
Bamboo was wrong to give the two loans to Mrs C.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman