The complaint
Mrs H and Mr S complain about a cash machine withdrawal for £270 made on their joint 
account with National Westminster Bank Plc. They say they neither made it nor authorised 
anyone else to make it. Mrs H has brought the complaint.   
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs H made a card purchase early in the morning, using her own account with 
NatWest. That purchase was verified by PIN, and Mrs H has explained that she has the 
same PIN for all her cards, including for the joint account she holds with her husband. She 
also told the bank that she keeps her husband's joint account card with her; they don't use 
that account much, as it's mainly kept to pay their mortgage.
Mrs H says that she then went to work, returning home at about 4pm. 
At about 6.30 that evening Mr S's joint account card was used to make a £270 cash machine 
withdrawal a few miles from his and Mrs H's home. Mrs H noticed the withdrawal early the 
following morning when she checked the account balance. She didn't recognise and so 
checked the cards, but noticed that the card used to make the withdrawal was missing. She 
contacted the bank to report the disputed withdrawal. 
NatWest looked into the matter. It said that the genuine card had been used with the correct 
PIN, and so it appeared that Mrs H and her husband hadn't taken proper care of them. It 
declined a refund. 
Mrs H said she thought someone might have seen her use her card and PIN early in the 
morning. She uses the same PIN for all her cards. Someone might then have taken a 
different card - her husband's joint account card - and used it several hours later. 
The bank didn't think however that was very likely. Its main reason for declining the claim for 
a refund, however, appears to have been that Mrs H and her husband, by sharing cards and 
PINs, were in breach of the card terms. Mrs H referred the complaint to this service and one 
of our investigators considered it. He thought it unlikely however that a third party was 
involved; had someone taken a card and found out its PIN, it was unlikely they would have 
waited around 12 hours before trying to use them. 
Mrs H didn't accept the investigator's findings and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
DRN-1880545I'll deal first of all with the bank's main argument that it shouldn't refund the withdrawal 
because Mrs H and her husband were in breach of the account terms. The breach it appears 
to rely on is that Mrs H told the bank that she keeps her husband's joint account card and 
that she knows his PIN (which is the same as hers). I make no comment on whether or not 
that is in breach of the card terms. I would observe however that, even if it is, that wouldn't in 
my view be a reason to decline a refund. I would need to be satisfied too that it was the 
cause of any loss. If, for example, Mrs H had used her husband's card to make a withdrawal, 
there would be no loss to them, since Mrs H is entitled to operate the account in any event. 
The bank hasn't explained how Mrs H sometimes having her husband's card and knowing 
his PIN has led to any loss in this case. 
I must however consider all the circumstances in deciding what's fair and reasonable - not 
only the arguments put forward by the parties. The investigator did that and concluded that it 
was unlikely that someone had taken a card from Mrs H, observed her PIN and used them 
some 12 hours later. 
I share the investigator's view that it's unlikely that someone saw Mrs H use her PIN in a 
supermarket early in the morning and was able (either at the same time or later) to take from 
her a different card. I also think it's unlikely that someone who did that would have waited 12 
hours before trying to use the card. 
Mrs H has provided little detail about what happened at the supermarket. She says that 
there were some workmen there, but hasn't described them being close to her so as to 
observe her PIN or any interaction which would have enabled them to take a card from her. 
She's suggested someone could have taken the card while she was at work, but of course 
that person wouldn't have known the PIN; it's not kept in accessible form on the card, Mrs H 
didn't keep a record of it and it's unlikely that anyone could have guessed it. 
I note too that Mrs H, when she reported the withdrawal to the bank, said she couldn't be 
certain she had the card that was used for it the previous day. She'd used her own account 
to make the purchase, but couldn't be sure she had her husband's card for the joint account 
at that time. 
In all the circumstances, I'm not persuaded that the disputed withdrawal was made without 
the authority of either Mrs H or her husband. It wouldn't therefore be fair to require 
NatWest to make a refund.         
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't require National Westminster Bank Plc to take any further 
steps to resolve this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman