DRN-3225561
The complaint
Miss M is complaining Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt update her car registration 
details on her car insurance policy which resulted in her being stopped for driving without 
insurance. 
What happened
In July 2021 Miss M contacted Admiral to say shed put a personalised number plate on her 
car and asked it to update her record. The call handler said they would do so. However 
Miss M was subsequently stopped by the police for driving without insurance. She contacted 
Admiral who acknowledged it had made a mistake. It updated her record and offered her 
£50 in compensation.
Miss M didnt accept this as she said she was concerned that, had she made a claim in that 
time, Admiral wouldnt have settled the claim. She also said she didnt think £50 was a fair 
reflection of the distress of being stopped by the police.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She acknowledged Admiral hadnt updated 
Miss Ms car details, but she said she hadnt seen anything to show it wouldnt have settled 
any claim made. And she thought £50 was fair compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this matter had caused.
Miss M didnt accept the investigators opinion as she maintained £50 wasnt a fair reflection 
of the distress from being stopped by the police and she said nothing like that had happened 
to her before. She said the police had told her of what the implications could have been  a 
large fine and points on her licence. She said it was simply her luck she didnt get any of this.
As Miss M didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first set out that this service isnt the industrys regulator  thats the Financial 
Conduct Authority. Its not out role to fine and punish a business when somethings gone 
wrong. Were a dispute resolution service and our role is to look to put things right when 
somethings gone wrong.
Theres no dispute Admiral didnt update Miss Ms cars registration details and Miss M was 
stopped for driving without insurance as a result. However, shes told us that the police 
accepted what she told them and didnt take the matter further. I dont dispute this would 
have been upsetting for her. But there werent any implications for what happened. Admiral 
immediately put things right when she called to discuss what happened.
I note Miss M has said shes concerned wouldnt have settled any claim she would have 
needed to make. But she ultimately didnt need to make a claim. And Admiral would have 
had to cover any valid claim because it was insuring the car  not the registration plate. 
Ultimately Miss M hasnt lost out because of what Admiral did wrong. I accept this matter 
would have caused Miss M some distress and inconvenience. But Admiral has offered her 
£50 in compensation for this and this is in line with what I would have recommended. So I 
dont think it needs to pay anything more than this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think Admiral Insurance 
Company Limiteds compensation offer of £50 for the distress and inconvenience its caused 
Miss M is fair. It should pay this to her directly if it hasnt already done so. I make no further 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 February 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman