DRN-3402677
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard refused to accept his 
repayment offer.
What happened
Mr F says he became self-employed in August 2020. He says he had a Barclaycard credit 
card debt and offered it £100 a month to repay it and says the required amount of just under 
£150 was unaffordable. Mr F says Barclaycard told him he needed to complete an income 
and expenditure assessment which would take about 45 minutes, but he didnt have time to 
do so. He says Barclaycard refused to accept his offer and insisted on telephone contact. Mr 
F says he stopped paying Barclaycard as a result of the way he was treated by it and says it 
is difficult to assess his finances as he is self-employed. He would like further compensation 
and for his £100 a month offer to be accepted.
Barclaycard says it told Mr F on a number of occasions that he needed to speak to its 
specialist team before it could consider a repayment plan and to consider his financial 
circumstances. It accepts it didnt call Mr F back as agreed and has offered £100 
compensation.
Mr F brought his complaint to us and says he did speak to Barclaycard in May 2021 and 
agreed a plan with it. But Mr F would like the arrears of about £500 written off and says he 
was unfairly charged missed payment fees.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought Mr F had been repeatedly told that 
Barclaycard needed to speak to him before any plan could be considered. The investigator 
thought the compensation offer fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint and thought 
the charges were correctly made when Mr F didnt make required payments.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and says the charges are unfair as he made Barclaycard 
aware of his circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr F will be disappointed by my decision.
I appreciate that Mr F became self employed in August 2020 which meant it was difficult to 
calculate or estimate his income. But I can see that Barclaycard asked him to speak to its 
specialist team at the end of 2020 which would have meant by that stage Mr F would have 
had about four months of financial information he could have provided Barclaycard with. I 
can see that Mr F has told us that Barclaycard wanted 45 minutes to complete the 
assessment, but he didnt have that time. I am sure Mr F appreciates that Barclaycard must 
speak to its customers to understand their financial circumstances before deciding if for 
example a repayment plan is suitable and how much those repayments should be.
So, I dont think Barclaycard made a mistake or acted unfairly by telling Mr F that it simply 
couldnt accept his repayment offer without him speaking to its specialist team. I dont think 
the estimated time of that meeting of 45 minutes ought to have caused any real difficulty or 
inconvenience and think that Barclaycard was trying to help Mr F by offering that meeting. I 
can see that Barclaycard repeatedly told Mr F that the only way in which it could help him 
was by speaking to its specialist team and that it was Mr Fs choice to wait until May 2021 to 
do so.
I can see that in May 2021 Barclaycard did agree a repayment plan with Mr F but by that 
stage he had decided he wasnt prepared to make monthly repayments to it. Im satisfied in 
those circumstances that a debt built up which I think was due to Mr Fs actions in not 
speaking to Barclaycard earlier. And that Barclaycard charged missed payment fees which I 
think were correctly charged in line with agreed account terms and conditions. I find these 
could have been avoided for the reasons I have explained. So, it follows that I cant fairly 
order Barclaycard refund the charges or reduce the debt.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclaycard made clear that it needed to speak to Mr F before it 
could agree a repayment plan. Mr F has told us he deliberately stopped his required 
payments until the position was resolved. But I think the position could have been resolved 
in December 2020 if Mr F had spoken to Barclaycards specialist team as required. I also 
think it likely that team would have experience dealing with the self-employed. I can see that 
Barclaycard accepts that it didnt provide Mr F with appropriate service and has offered £100 
compensation. I find that award fair and reasonable and dont think the mistake was 
significant or resulted in any financial loss. I appreciate it is not the main part of this 
complaint but make that clear. I dont think Barclaycard has paid the compensation and no 
doubt Mr F can ask it to do so if he now wishes to accept it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman