DRN-4217886
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax reported adverse information in 
relation to his loan which has affected his ability to obtain further lending.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr A agreed a refinance loan with Halifax. At the time of the loan, Halifax 
advised Mr A that it couldnt consider additional credit for 12 months. This restriction was 
noted internally but not reported on Mr As credit file.
Mr A raised a complaint in February 2023. He said that Halifax had reported a missed 
payment to the credit reference agencies and that this had affected his credit score.
Halifax reviewed Mr As account and confirmed that his loan repayments were up to date. It 
said that it hadnt recorded any late or missed payments.
Mr A continued to complain that there was adverse information recorded on his credit file. 
Halifax checked again and confirmed that there were no late payment indicators showing on 
Mr As account in relation to the refinance loan.
Mr A remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that Mr A hadnt provided evidence to 
show that Halifax had reported adverse information and therefore they couldnt ask Halifax to 
do anything further.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that Halifax had reported a missed payment and that this had 
impacted his credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that there is no evidence to show that Halifax 
has reported a missed or late payment in relation to Mr As account. Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed the information provided by Halifax. I can see that Halifax imposed a restriction 
at the time of the refinance loan that no additional credit would be considered for 12 months. 
However, this was an internal restriction and not something which was reported to the credit 
reference agencies.
I havent seen anything in the information provided by Halifax to suggest that Mr A has 
missed any payments on his loan, or that any missed payments have been reported by 
Halifax.
Based on the information Ive seen, Im unbale to say that Halifax has made an error or done 
something wrong. I cant see that Halifax has reported any adverse information in relation to 
Mr As loan account. 
For the reasons Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint and I wont be asking Halifax 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman