DRN-3871601
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about AXA Insurance UK Plcs decision to decline a claim for 
storm damage made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H have a home insurance policy underwritten by AXA which covers their home 
and its contents, amongst other things.
The background to this case is well known to both parties, so Ill summarise it only briefly 
here.
In short, a garden wall at Mrs H and Mr Hs property collapsed during a named storm. They 
made a claim to AXA.
AXA appointed a surveyor to assess the damage. His view was that the walls collapse 
wasnt primarily due to the storm, which had only served to highlight existing weaknesses in 
the wall.
When AXA indicated that, on that basis, they wouldnt be accepting the claim, Mrs H and 
Mr H appointed their own surveyor. He came it the conclusion that it would be reasonable to 
conclude that the storm must have caused the wall to collapse.
AXA nonetheless maintained that the decision to decline the claim was correct. And they 
maintained that position after Mrs H and Mr H made a complaint to them.
Mrs H and Mr H then brought their complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and didnt 
think AXA had done anything wrong.
Mrs H and Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case that there was a storm  an insured event  at the time the 
wall collapsed. 
Theres also no dispute about what Mrs H and Mr Hs policy says. In short, if the storm was 
the main cause of the walls collapse, AXA should accept the claim. If, however, the storm 
merely served to highlight existing deficiencies in the wall  and those deficiencies were the 
main cause of the collapse - then AXA can justifiably decline the claim. 
I should also be very clear about one important point right from the outset. Its not for me  or 
our service  to act as second-line claim assessors for insurers. We cant, in essence, step 
in and decide for AXA whether the claim should or should not be accepted.
My decision in this case is about whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably in declining the 
claim  and/or maintaining their decision to decline the claim - at the relevant time, given the 
information they had available to them at that time.
At the relevant time, AXA had in their possession a report from their own surveyor and a 
report from Mrs H and Mr Hs surveyor.
AXAs own surveyor said the storm was not the main cause of the walls collapse. He said 
the wall had been leaning prior to the storm. He said there may have been cracking and/or 
deterioration in the mortar. And he said the wall had possibly been acting as a retaining wall 
for a path built behind it  inside Mrs H and Mr Hs garden  which was higher than the 
ground level on the other side of the wall  which was a public footpath.
AXA were entitled to rely on that report, provided by an expert who worked for a company 
appointed by AXA to carry out the inspection.
However, they were also obliged to consider information provided by Mrs H and Mr H  and 
particularly the report provided by their own surveyor. 
That report, as provided to AXA by Mrs H and Mr H, concluded that:
it would be reasonable to conclude that the storm occurring on the same day 
must have caused the wall to collapse.
That conclusion is stated in a slightly less definitive way than AXAs own surveyors report. It 
appears to be saying that, in the absence of any other explanation, the storm must have 
caused the wall to collapse. AXA believed, of course, that there was another explanation  
as set out in their own surveyors report.
Mrs H and Mr Hs surveyors report also says quite clearly that it is assumed that there was 
no deterioration to the wall prior to the storm at least in part because:
 there was little reasonable indication to the owner that the wall had deteriorated 
or was inadequate
It wouldnt be unreasonable for AXA to read that as meaning that the surveyor had been told 
 by Mrs and Mr H  that the wall had no signs of deterioration before the storm. What Mrs H 
and Ms H said is certainly evidence to be taken into account, but that is appreciably different 
to a surveyor saying the physical evidence on the ground suggested that the wall was 
perfectly sound before the storm.
Mrs H and Mr Hs surveyor also said, in his report: 
 the blockwork paving, of the path at the side of the house, has been exposed and 
it is at a higher level than the public footpath and might have been retained by the 
wall.
Theres no real follow up to that statement to discount the notion that the walls acting as a 
retaining wall for the path may have caused the collapse of the wall.
I know that AXA have since accepted that there may not be sufficient evidence of the walls 
mortar cracking or deteriorating prior to the storm. However, that wouldnt invalidate their 
surveyors report entirely. Nor would it cause them to question their decision to decline the 
claim, given that the reports conclusions rested on a number of factors as well as the 
assertions about the state of the mortar. In summary, when I look at the two reports AXA had when they maintained their decision to 
decline the claim, I cant justifiably conclude that their decision was wrong, or unfair or 
unreasonable. 
Im aware that Mrs H and Mr H have also provided a surveyors report dating from when they 
purchased the house. This says the wall is sound at the time. But I bear in mind that survey 
was carried out in 2011, long before the storm and the walls collapse. 
Theyve also said the wall has been standing since the mid-1980s when it was built. I think 
you could read that particular evidence in two different ways, to be frank. It certainly doesnt 
do anything to persuade me that the wall was definitely sound before the storm occurred. 
Building materials do deteriorate over time.
I agree with our investigators view then that this complaint should not be upheld. Im 
satisfied AXA considered all the evidence available at the time of the claim  and when their 
decision was first questioned by Mrs H and Mr H. And on balance, I cant conclude that their 
decision was unfair or unreasonable.
However, I should add that Mrs H and Mr H have very recently provided to us some further 
comments from their surveyor. These comments clarify or amplify some aspects of his 
original report.
For example, he has now explained why he thinks the fact that the wall may have been 
retaining the path inside Mrs H and Mr Hs garden had nothing to do with the collapse of the 
wall. 
Because AXA didnt have that further information from Mrs H and Mr Hs surveyor when they 
made their decision about the claim  indeed, unless Mrs H and Mr H also sent it to them 
recently, they still havent had it  I cant reasonably conclude that AXA made an unfair 
decision at the time. And so, I cant uphold this complaint.
But I would expect AXA to review that new information  and re-consider their decision on 
the claim in light of that new information  just as soon as Mrs H and Mr H provide them with 
a copy.
As I mention above, its not for me  or for our service  to tell AXA how they should view 
that new information, or how they should resolve the claim. Thats for AXA to decide, just so 
long as they do take the further comments from the surveyor into account.
If Mrs H and Mr H are unhappy with the way AXA handle that new information and/or the 
outcome of AXAs further considerations, then they can make a new complaint to AXA. And 
if they arent happy with AXAs response, they can bring that complaint to us.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman