DRN-1507271
 
The complaint
Mr W says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Itc Compliance 
Limited has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to Itc in this 
decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mr W was sold a regular premium PPI policy in a meeting in 2010 when he was arranging a 
hire purchase loan to buy a car. The PPI cost £30.13 a month and protected Mr Ws 
repayments for up to twelve months if he wasnt able to work because of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Itc disagreed with the adjudicators 
view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case. Having done so, Im upholding it for 
reasons that Ill explain.
From what Ive seen, including the Demand and Needs Report which Mr W signed, I think 
Itc recommended the PPI policy to Mr W. This means that it needed to ensure that the policy 
was right for him, given his circumstances at the time. It also had to give Mr W enough 
information for him to decided if it met his needs and that he wanted to buy it.
The cost of the policy doesnt appear to be shown on the copy of the HP agreement Ive 
seen. But I can see that a total cost of £1,054.55 is shown on the Demand and Needs 
Report. Itc has confirmed that this was a regular monthly premium policy. And the policy 
covered a period from June 2010 to May 2013. So the monthly cost Mr W paid for the PPI 
policy was £30.13. 
From looking at the paperwork that Itc has been able to provide relating to this sale, I dont 
think that the monthly cost of the policy was made sufficiently clear to Mr W by Itc. I think 
that this would have been important information for Mr W to have available in making his 
decision about buying it. And having looked at the benefit Mr W was able to obtain from the 
policy, if hed been made fully aware of its monthly cost by Itc, I dont think he would have 
thought it represented good value to him and still wanted to buy it.
So I think that Mr W has lost out by Itc not adequately making Mr W aware of the monthly 
cost he would have to pay for his PPI policy at the time it was sold to him.As Im upholding this complaint for the reason explained above, I havent considered it 
necessary to go on to decide whether Itc also failed to ensure that Mr W had a choice about 
taking out the policy and can show that he actively consented to do so.
Putting things right
Itc should put Mr W in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. So Itc should:
 
Pay Mr W the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
 
If Mr W made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Itc can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Itc to take off tax from this interest. Itc must give Mr W a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint against Itc Compliance Limited. I direct Itc Compliance Limited to 
pay Mr W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman