DRN-1955922
 
The complaint
Miss B has complained about Tesco Personal Finance PLCs handling of her motor legal 
expenses insurance (MLEI) policy.
What happened
In April 2017, Miss B took out car insurance and MLEI policies through Tesco who acted as 
the broker. The car insurance and the MLEI were underwritten by two separate insurers. 
Tesco as broker sold and administered both policies.
In May 2017, Miss B was involved in an accident and her car was a total loss. She made a 
claim on her car insurance policy for the damage to her car and later instructed a solicitor 
privately to make a claim for personal injury against the driver who caused the accident. 
Miss B said that when she phoned to report the accident, Tesco didnt tell her she had MLEI 
which she could use to pursue her personal injury claim. She said because she didnt know 
she instructed her own solicitor privately on a no win no fee basis. She said her agreement 
with the solicitor was that she would pay them 25% of any settlement she was awarded. 
After she learned that her MLEI cover would have covered her legal costs she complained to 
Tesco. She said if Tesco had reminded her she had MLEI which she could use, she wouldnt 
have instructed her own solicitor and so would have kept her entire settlement.
Tesco rejected Miss Bs complaint. They said it wasnt their responsibility to tell her she had 
MLEI. They also said when she called and reported the accident they put her through to the 
car insurer for them to deal with her claim. Miss B brought her complaint to our service. One 
of our investigators looked into it. She felt that Tesco had dealt with Miss B fairly. As Miss B 
didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 June 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
Tesco sold Miss B her car and MLEI policies. Although both had separate insurers 
that underwrote those policies they were branded under Tescos name. And it was 
Tesco that issued the policy documentation in their name and provided contact 
numbers, including the number to make a claim on both her car and MLEI policies, 
which was a Tesco number. I understand that Miss B, like most lay people without in 
depth insurance industry knowledge, believed that Tesco were her insurer. Tesco 
effectively provided a one stop shop of insurance products for Miss B.
Tescos policy explained what Miss B had to do in the event of a claim. It said:
Making a claim: overview
We know how stressful it can be if your car is involved in an incident, however 
the sooner you report it, the sooner we can help you. You must tell us within 7 
days of becoming aware of any incident that may result in a claim under this 
policy, even if you do not intend claiming for your own car.
Call our 24-hour UK-based claims line highlighted on your Schedule, It will be 
useful if you have your policy number and details of the incident.
Once you have called we will:
 register your claim
 give you a Claims Number to quote
 talk you through the process, including confirming what you're covered for
 arrange next steps
[The highlighted text is my emphasis]
So, Tesco undertook to help Miss B with any incident that may result in a claim and 
to talk you through the process, including confirming what you're covered for. And 
that is what I would expect from Tesco as the broker who were the first point of 
contact for Miss B.
Miss B had been through a traumatic accident with a lorry; she was at the time 
pregnant; and she made the call to Tesco while she was in the A&E department of a 
hospital. I dont think it was surprising in those circumstances that she didnt 
remember what cover she had nor would I have expected her to access her policy 
documentation to check. She understandably expected guidance from Tesco.
When Miss B called Tesco to report the incident they transferred her to the car 
insurers claims line. But before doing so Tesco accept that she told them she had 
been hit by a lorry and that she was in A&E. I think at that stage Tesco should have, 
as they said they would in their policy, explained to Miss B that not only could she 
claim on her car insurance policy for the damage to her car but also given she was 
injured, asked Miss B if she wished to use her MLEI to claim for her injuries or any 
other uninsured losses she might have. But that didnt happen. Ive seen Tescos 
contact notes in which they said its not their responsibility to tell Miss B she had 
MLEI. But the information that Tesco gave to Miss B was that it would take her 
through the process. So I think it was Tescos responsibility to do that. But it didn't do 
so, it just put her trough to the underwriter of her car policy without any help or 
assistance as to how to use her MLEI policy.
As a result of Tesco not telling Miss B she could claim on her MLEI, she later went to 
a no win no fee solicitor which cost her 25% of her compensation. It would appear 
that not everything went smoothly between Miss Bs solicitor and the MLEI 
underwriter. But in this decision Im only looking at the actions of Tesco. And I think 
that if Tesco had told Miss B about her MLEI at the outset she would have claimed 
on that policy. And that would have involved the MLEI insurer taking responsibility for 
the solicitors costs and she would have avoided instructing a solicitor privately that 
charged her 25% of her award on a no win no fee basis.
I therefore think Tescos actions were unreasonable so I intend to uphold this 
complaint. And because I think it was Tescos unreasonable actions that caused 
Miss B to lose 25% of her compensation in solicitors fees, I intend to require Tesco 
to reimburse Miss B the 25% fees she paid her solicitor. I understand the amount is in the region of £1,700. But Miss B must, if she hasnt already done so, provide 
Tesco with documentary proof of the amount she paid. Simple interest at a rate of 
8% a year should be added to that amount from the date she paid it (or when it was 
deducted from her award) until Tesco reimburses her. Also, Im aware that this 
matter has been a source of distress and inconvenience for Miss B. Not only has it 
been ongoing for well over two years but she has also had to make complaints 
against a number of businesses. To address the impact of the distress and 
inconvenience she suffered I intend to require Tesco to pay Miss B £400 
compensation.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Miss B accepted my provisional 
findings. She provided a letter from her solicitor confirming the 25% fee they charged her 
amounted to £1,706.25. Tesco made the following comments:
The ombudsman has misunderstood Tescos role as an intermediary who introduces 
customers to insurers. To demonstrate my misunderstanding Tesco quoted the 
following from my provisional decision: And it was Tesco that issued the policy 
documentation in their name and provided contact numbers, including the number to 
make a claim on both her car and MLEI policies, which was a Tesco number. 
Tesco said my above quote isnt quite correct. Tesco said insurers handle claims 
themselves, so when a customer has an accident and calls the numbers detailed in 
their insurance documents, they are speaking with their insurer, not Tesco Personal 
Finance. Miss [B] didnt call the number in her documents to report the claim, but 
instead called our customer service number, so I provided you with a call recording 
where we transferred the customer to her insurer. As you can hear from this call, we 
took no details of the accident.
If the details of Miss Bs claim indicated she needed legal assistance, Tescos 
expectation is that the insurer should have directed Miss B to her MLEI.
Its unreasonable to expect Tesco to remind Miss B she had MLEI where Tesco 
didnt and still dont, know anything about the claim or whether legal cover would be 
appropriate as above, we dont deal with claims calls in this area and as per the 
contact lists we have sent a number of times, any claims complaints should be 
directed to the relevant underwriter. I genuinely think this case has just been brought 
against the wrong company, but as in confirmed in our Final response, we handed 
the complaint to the insurer 
Its not reasonable to ask us (or the insurer) to reimburse the legal costs, without 
providing details of the case, so we, or they, can assess whether MLEI would even 
have covered it. However, we havent requested details of the case from the 
customer because we feel this complaint sits with the company who handled the 
claim and took the details, and therefore presumably knew MLEI may be of use.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same. But Id like to respond to Tescos comments 
as follows:
In addition to selling the policy, or as Tesco said introducing Miss B to the insurers, 
Tesco said they also administered the policy. In other words they managed the 
policy.
Tesco said the responsibility for dealing with claims lies with the insurer and not with 
Tesco. I agree that is the case. And in Miss Bs case the responsibility for dealing with the claim for the damage to her car was with the car insurer. And the 
responsibility for dealing with a claim under the MLEI policy was with the insurer of 
that policy. But that is not the issue in this case. The issue is whether or not Tesco, 
as the broker that administered the policy, should have told Miss B that she could 
use her MLEI policy to claim for her injuries.
Tesco said its unreasonable to expect them to remind Miss B she had MLEI where 
Tesco didnt and still dont, know anything about the claim or whether legal cover 
would be appropriate  But Tescos contact notes confirm that when Miss B called 
Tesco to report the incident they transferred her to the car insurers claims line. But 
before doing so Tesco accept that she told them her car had been hit by a lorry and 
that she was in A&E. So, Tesco accept that they spoke with Miss B first, which is 
what I would have expected given the policy Miss B had, including both the car and 
MLEI polices, was branded in Tescos name. And the call details confirm Miss B told 
Tesco that she had a car accident and that she was in hospital. On the basis of the 
information Miss B gave Tesco, they only referred her to the car insurer. But she also 
said she was in A&E. Tesco should have known that if Miss B was in A&E because 
she was injured as a result of the accident, she might want to consider a personal 
injury claim against the other driver. And Tesco would have known that a claim for 
personal injury isnt something Miss B could claim for under her own car policy as 
personal injury is whats known as an uninsured loss. And Tesco would have known 
Miss B had an MLEI policy and that she could use that to claim for uninsured losses, 
namely her injuries. So, while Tesco rightly directed Miss B to her car insurer for 
them to deal with the damage to her car, they should have also told her she had 
MLEI which she could use to claim for any injuries she might have. But Tesco didnt 
do that. I dont agree with Tesco that it was the car insurers responsibility to advise 
Miss B about her MLEI policy, as the car insurer wouldn't have known that she had 
that cover. As administrator of the policy, thats something Tesco should have done.
Finally, Miss B instructed a solicitor who successfully represented her in making a 
recovery for the injuries she suffered. Given her claim succeeded indicates to me her 
claim was a strong one. And the solicitor she instructed is someone who deals with 
MLEI insurers, including the MLEI insurer Miss B had cover with. So, I think the 
solicitor was familiar with how MLEI claims are made. On the evidence Ive seen, 
despite what Tesco have said, I havent seen any convincing evidence to suggest 
that had Miss B made a claim on her MLEI policy it would have been rejected.
Putting things right
Tesco Personal Finance PLC must:
Reimburse Miss B the 25% fee (£1,706.25) she paid her no win no fee solicitor. 
Simple interest at a rate of 8% a year should be added to that amount from the date 
she paid the fee until she is reimbursed.
Pay Miss B £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC to:
Reimburse Miss B the 25% fee (£1,706.25) she paid her no win no fee solicitor. 
Simple interest at a rate of 8% a year should be added to that amount from the date 
she paid the fee until she is reimbursed.1
Pay Miss B £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Miss B has accepted my 
final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman
1 If Tesco consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Miss B how much they have taken off. They should also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 