DRN-1281046
 
The complaint
Mr R was involved in a car accident and made a claim on his motor insurance policy held 
with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA). Mr R has complained about the various 
aspects of his claim including the fact that he wasnt able to keep the insured car (salvage) 
after it was written off, and the amounts he was paid under the policy.
What happened 
Mr R arranged a car through a scheme. He was involved in an accident and RSA requested 
he pay his policy excess which was £100. Mr R paid this amount and the damage to his car 
was assessed. 
Unfortunately, the car had structural damage and the estimated cost to repair it exceeded 
the amount it was valued at. So, it was declared an insurance write off. Mr R doesnt think he 
should have had to pay the excess as the car wasnt repaired.
From the outset of the claim, Mr R made RSA aware that he would like to keep the car 
(salvage) as it had been adapted for his needs and was no longer being made by the 
manufacturer. Mr R explained he was happy to pay for the salvage and repairs himself. He 
says RSA told him he would be able to keep the salvage.
Mr R was later told that as the car was arranged through a scheme, it didnt belong to him, 
and so after paying the value of the claim to the scheme provider, the car became RSAs 
property. If Mr R wanted to buy the salvage, he would have to bid for it in an auction setting 
as it would be passed over to its salvage company.
Mr R was unhappy with this as he feels he was given misleading information, and he should 
have been given the option to buy the salvage first. He says hes unable to find a suitable 
alternative and this is impacting his health.
Mr R has also told us that his car had many add-ons which he had fitted to the car. He says 
RSA has not paid him for these. He says he had also paid a large initial payment for the car 
that hadnt been refunded. Since Mr R first brought his complaint to us, he has provided 
more information about these add-ons, and I can see RSA has made a further payment to 
compensate Mr R for the costs he incurred. But Mr R doesnt feel the payment is enough as 
he believes he paid out much more.
Mr R has also told us that RSA wouldnt allow him to take other fixed add-ons out of the car 
after it was written off.
Our Investigator considered Mr Rs complaint. While he agreed RSA had initially led Mr R to 
believe he would be able to keep the salvage, he didnt think Mr R was entitled to it. And 
because Mr R was given correct information in a reasonable timeframe, our investigator 
didnt feel that RSA needed to do anything to correct this. He also thought that the excess RSA had requested from Mr R, and the amounts it had paid him in respect of the add-ons, 
were reasonable.
With the above in mind our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R didnt agree, he feels he should have been able to buy the salvage. He also thought he 
should have been paid more to compensate him for the additions he had made to the car, 
and the initial payment he had made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has clearly explained his personal circumstances and reasons for wanting to keep the 
salvage following the accident. I have considered how Mr Rs claim was handled and 
whether RSA acted reasonably.
I will address Mr Rs complaint points in turn.
Policy excess
I can appreciate Mr Rs concerns about being asked to pay his excess when the insured car 
wasnt repaired. But a policy excess is the contractual amount of any claim a policy holder 
agrees to be responsible for. So, even though the insured car wasnt repaired Mr R is still 
responsible for making this payment.
Salvage
Under the insurance policy Mr R held, RSA were responsible for paying a reasonable cost 
for repairs following an accident. If the car couldnt be repaired, his contract under the 
scheme would be terminated. But Mr R was not entitled to a payment in relation to the loss 
and was not entitled to keep the car.
It is often the case that the owner of the car can request the salvage should they wish to 
keep it. And I can understand why Mr R would have wanted to have kept this car. But Mr R 
had arranged the car through a scheme and was not the owner, so RSA didnt have to give 
him the option to keep the car.
I have listened to all the call recordings available from around the time Mr R made his claim, 
and I think there were times RSA led Mr R to believe he may have been able to keep the 
salvage. But this wasnt correct, and Mr R was given correct information in the days that 
followed. As Mr R was never entitled to keep the car and RSA had informed him of this, I 
dont think RSA need to do anything further to correct this.
Payments for initial payments and addons
I have looked at the amounts RSA has paid Mr R under his claim. 
RSA explained the initial payment Mr R made to the scheme provider wasnt an insured 
amount, so it wasnt something he would be compensated for under his insurance policy. I 
have considered the terms of Mr Rs insurance policy, and like other insurance providers this 
initial payment isnt something that is specifically covered. So, I wont be asking RSA to 
refund this to Mr R.RSA initially paid Mr R £1,000 for the additions he had made to his car, but after providing 
further invoices RSA paid him a further £5,534.02.
Mr Rs policy explained it would only pay for additions that fell into certain categories. The 
policy states:
The equipment must be permanently fitted in the Vehicle or Alternative Vehicle and must 
have been supplied with it as standard by the manufacturer or dealer.
I have looked at the invoices provided by Mr R and can see that the additions were made 
after the car was manufactured. But RSA has made a further payment to Mr R agreeing to 
cover the full cost of the additions made to his car that it considers were related to his 
medical conditions. It has said it wont make any payment towards additions it considers 
either cosmetic, or portable. 
As Mr Rs policy didnt cover him for the additions he had on the car, I dont think the 
payment RSA has made  is unreasonable in the circumstances. 
And while Mr R has asked to remove some of the fixed additions, I dont think RSA has 
acted unfairly in declining the request. As these additions were fixed and therefore form part 
of the car, their removal could potentially cause further damage to the car  or decrease its 
value further.   
Having considered all of Mr Rs complaint points I agree that RSA could have provided 
clearer information at the outset. But overall, I think it has assessed Mr Rs claim fairly and in 
line with the insurance policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman