The complaint
Mr L complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) failed to identify the problem with his 
heating, leaving him unable to use it. Hes unhappy with the level of service BG provided.
What happened
Mr L had Homecare Four Service and Breakdown cover with BG. He started having 
problems with his heating and each time BG visited, it diagnosed the problem as blocked 
pipes. Mr L says the problem wasnt resolved and he was without heating for almost two 
years.
Mr L appointed a third party engineer who said the pipes werent blocked. The engineer 
completed a temporary repair to a valve and advised Mr L to have the valve replaced. BG 
replaced the valve at his request.
Mr L complained to BG because he thought it shouldve picked up on the easy fix much 
sooner. Instead, hed been without heating for a long time because he couldnt afford to 
complete the work BG told him was needed. 
BG didnt think the valve was the only cause of the problems because several engineers had 
reported possible problems with the pipes and it accepted their findings on technical matters. 
However, in light of some customer service shortfalls it offered Mr L compensation. He 
rejected the offer and BG increased the sum offered on two further occasions. Its final offer 
was £580 which Mr L rejected.  
Our investigator looked at two key issues  whether BG misdiagnosed the problem with Mr 
Ls central heating, and whether Mr L couldve done more to mitigate the inconvenience he 
experienced. He noted that over the years several engineers had reported that the pipes 
might be the cause of the problem so he didnt feel it was appropriate to conclude that the 
valve was the only problem with the central heating.
Our investigator thought that Mr L couldve done more to limit the time he was without 
heating and he didnt think it was reasonable to hold BG responsible indefinitely even if it 
had failed to diagnose the problem. Our investigator explained that he wouldve expected Mr 
L to explore other options if he felt BGs options were too costly.
Given our investigators view that BG wasnt entirely responsible for the delay in resolving 
the problem, he thought BGs offer of £580 was a reasonable amount to settle the matter. He 
didnt think BG needed to do any more.
Mr L didnt agree. He explained that his complaint wasnt about whether BG misdiagnosed 
the problem. It was about being without heating for 20 months because of BGs failure to 
DRN-1120011diagnose the problem. Mr L said BG didnt check the pipes and that each engineer had a 
preconceived idea of what the problem was. Mr L also thought BG hadnt fully recognised 
the inconvenience and referred to a daily payment made by energy companies when 
customers dont have a supply. 
Our investigator reconsidered the complaint on receipt of Mr Ls engineers report. However, 
he remained of the view that BG had done enough but Mr L didnt agree.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr L but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint for 
the reasons Ill explain now.
Firstly, Id like to thank Mr L for providing comments and additional information, including the 
third party engineers report. His clarifications are reflected in the background of the 
complaint.
Mr L explained that his main complaint is that BG didnt diagnose the problem with his 
central heating and, as a result, he was without heating for almost two years. Theres no 
dispute that BG didnt identify or fix, until prompted, the faulty valve. Mr L says his heating 
works now so it mustve been the problem. However, I cant conclude with certainty that the 
valve was the original and only problem. 
Ive looked at BGs work records and I can see three engineers suggested that the pipe was 
blocked. During each visit over three years, BG had advised Mr L to think about getting a 
new boiler and upgraded pipework. Because of this, he thinks BG decided even before it 
attended to investigate the problem that the pipes would be the cause. I can understand why 
Mr L might think that, but I have no reason to reach the same conclusion. I think its unlikely 
that different engineers on separate visits over the course of three years failed to properly 
investigate. 
For financial reasons, Mr L asked a third party engineer to investigate and provide a quote 
for flushing the system. The engineers report supports that:
called to flush/check flow and returns on No CH Job. By checking the pipework the 
engineer identified that the valve was faulty. A temporary fix resolved the problem. BG 
completed the subsequent valve replacement at Mr Ls request. 
Mr L sees this as evidence that BG failed to identify the fault. However, it tells me that if he 
had allowed BG to flush the pipes as it proposed, its likely that it would also have identified 
that the valve needed replacing. What it doesnt tell me is whether any blockage wouldve 
been found.
The third party engineer report says No blockage. However, I dont think this supports Mr 
Ls view that BG incorrectly reported that the pipe was blocked. BG agrees that the faulty 
valve contributed to the problem but as the heating still isnt working properly  Mr L says its 
working sufficiently  its not fair for me to conclude that BG proposed an unnecessary 
course of action.Mr L thinks the responsibility was on BG to ensure he had heating rather than on him to look 
for other options to pay for a repair. I dont agree. BG proposed a way to resolve the heating 
fault but Mr L didnt ask it to complete the work. It was, as he says, quite some time before 
he asked another engineer to quote for the work. I understand why he delayed, and I can 
sympathise with the position he found himself in. However, I cant hold BG responsible for 
that. If it had done the work it proposed the fault wouldve been found. If flushing the pipes 
was the wrong course of action, it would at least have revealed that there was still a fault and 
BG couldve investigated further.
It was an unfortunate position for Mr L to be in, but its not reasonable to expect BG to be 
responsible for the lack of heating during a period it wasnt asked to complete any work.
I see that BG paid £580 in compensation to Mr L for customer service shortfalls surrounding 
this matter. The shortfalls relate to letters not delivered to Mr L, repeated calls, and the 
failure to follow up on his complaint for several months, but the compensation covers the full 
cost of his policy for a year. I think it was helpful for BG to do that in an attempt to settle the 
matter.
Mr L believes that utility companies pay up to £30 per day if left without service. Some do 
and Im aware that energy distribution companies will pay for loss of supply if theyre at fault 
for not restoring it within a fixed timeframe. Even then, the payment is capped and wouldnt 
extend to 20 months. However, Mr L didnt lose his supply  his heating system had a fault 
which BG mightve fixed sooner had Mr L been in a position to pay for the additional service.
So, for the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied that BG acknowledged mistakes where it made 
them but I dont think it was the primary cause of Mr L being without heating or that it failed 
to correctly diagnose the problem. And even if it had, I think the payment of £580 is sufficient 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17July2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman