DRN-3904543
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase of some 
solar panels.
Mr P is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr P bought solar panels for his home in December 2017. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and so that business is liable under the Act for the acts and omissions of 
the installer. Mr P says the installer misled him into believing that the panels would be self-
funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr P and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The CMC 
did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cost and the estimated 
benefit of the panels very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
There were actually two contracts, both signed by Mr P, both with the same date and 
apparently produced on the same occasion. The more recent one (going by contract 
numbers) was for panels which generate slightly more output and thus more revenue, and 
so this contract had the most favourable figures for Mr P. I have therefore focused on that 
one, as that contract presumably superseded the earlier one, and is likely to be the 
document which he would have relied on.
Immediately above the signature box, in the middle, it says in bold capital letters Estimated 
total 1st year benefit, and next to that on the right are two figures indicating a range; the 
higher figure is £324.09. I think this figure is conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. 
Just to the left of that it says that the finance amount is £5,195, payable over 120 months, or 
ten years. This document was signed by Mr P immediately below those figures, and so I am 
satisfied that the installers salesman did bring this information to his attention.
The interest on the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mr P could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come 
to £519.50 each year. That is nearly £200 more than the stated benefit figure for the first 
year. Again, I think this is clear. (The other contract leads to the same conclusion.)
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr P about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan. It does not seem likely to me that the salesman told him the panels would pay for 
themselves at the same time as asking him to sign a piece of paper that said they would not.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman