DRN-3144322
The complaint
Mr M complains about Allay Claims Ltd and their decision to chase him for their settlement 
fee following his successful claim for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance (PPI).
What happened
In June 2019, Mr M instructed Allay to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI against Lender H, 
signing a Letter of Authority (LOA) agreeing to Allays terms and conditions. Allay submitted 
a claim on Mr Ms behalf and on 7 November, Lender H sent their final decision letter to both 
Mr M and Allay awarding him a total PPI refund of £1,425.38.
So, Allay invoiced Mr M for their settlement fee and on 27 November, Lender H confirmed to 
Allay that Mr Ms PPI refund had been raised. But Mr M spoke to Allay in December and 
explained he hadnt received the refund. Mr M explained he no longer lived at the address 
Allay held for him which was where the cheque had been sent. But he explained he was still 
able to access that property and nothing had been received. Allay advised Mr M to call 
Lender H which he did and it was agreed that the cheque would be resent.
But Mr M still didnt receive the cheque containing his PPI refund. And he was unhappy Allay 
continued to chase him for their fee. So, he raised a complaint.
Mr M was unhappy with the service Allay provided. He didnt think it was fair for them to 
chase him for payment when he hadnt received the PPI refund. And he didnt think it was 
fair for Allay to resume chasers after not contacting him for a significant period of time. He 
didnt think Allay had helped him chase Lender H for payment of his refund and he was 
unhappy with the information Allay had provided him during this time. So, he wanted Allay to 
stop chasing him for payment and accept he hadnt received the refund. Or, if they were 
unwilling to do so, to help him understand what had happened to it.
Allay responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly by invoicing Mr M initially. 
And they thought theyd been reasonably by placing their collection activity on hold while Mr 
M spoke to Lender H to ensure his refund had been received. They didnt think it was 
reasonable for them to be expected to wait indefinitely for payment of their settlement fee, 
when the claim had been successful following the work they completed. So, they didnt think 
they needed to do anything more. Mr M remained unhappy with this response, so he 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She recognised Mr M didnt 
dispute Allay completed the work necessary to secure the PPI refund. So, she was satisfied 
Allay were due a fee for their involvement. And she didnt think it was Allays fault that 
Lender H had failed to ensure Mr M received his refund. She was aware Mr M had changed 
address without notifying Allay, so they were unable to tell Lender H before they issued the 
first cheque. And she thought theyd acted fairly by asking Mr M to arrange for a new cheque 
to be issued with Lender H. Considering the length of time that had passed since the claim 
was successful, she thought Allay were fair to restart collection activity to ensure they 
received the fee they were due. So, she didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree. He maintained his view it was unfair for Allay to resume collection activity 
after a significant amount of time. And he didnt think Allay had done enough to assist him in 
securing payment of the refund from Lender H. So, he thought didnt think it was fair for Allay 
to ask him to pay their fee. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr M. I understand how 
frustrating it wouldve been to know he was due a substantial refund from Lender H and not 
receive it. And I recognise how this frustration wouldve been made worse by receiving 
invoices from Allay asking him to pay their settlement fee, which he shouldve come from 
that same refund. I can also appreciate the length of time this has been ongoing and why Mr 
M would hold Allay accountable for this, as he authorised them to act as his representative in 
the claim. But for me to say Allay have acted unfairly, Id need to be satisfied that it was their 
error that led to Mr M not receiving his refund from Lender H. Or, that theyve acted unfairly 
when chasing Mr M for their settlement fee given the circumstances. And in this situation, I 
dont think thats the case.
Mr M doesnt dispute that Allay submitted the claim that led to his successful PPI claim with 
Lender H. So I dont intend to discuss this any further. As Allay completed the work that led 
to the claim, it follows that theyre entitled to invoice Mr M for their settlement fee, in line with 
the terms of the agreement. And Ive seen that Allay did so.
In this situation, the main dispute is whether its fair for Allay to ask Mr M to pay this 
settlement fee when he hasnt received the refund from Lender H. For me to say it isnt, Id 
need to be satisfied that Allay have done something wrong.
From the evidence Ive seen, I can see Lender H confirmed to Allay in November 2019 that 
the refund had been issued to Mr M. And as per industry process, this wouldve been sent to 
Mr H by post as a cheque.
Mr M made Allay aware hed moved addresses since hed instructed them. But this was after 
Lender H had upheld his claim. So, Lender H sent the cheque to Mr Ms previous address. I 
dont think its fair for me to say this was the fault of Allays as they werent made aware of 
the address change in time to act on that information.
And Ive listened to the calls between Mr M and Allay in December 2019. And on this first 
call, Mr M explains he still had access to his previous address as his former partner lived 
there. So, even though Lender H sent the cheque to his old address, I would still have 
expected Mr M to receive this. Im aware that he didnt but Im unable to speculate as to why 
this was. But what I can say is I dont think Allay were responsible for the issuing of this 
cheque so it wasnt there fault Mr M didnt receive it.
And in the second call, Mr M explained hed spoken to Lender H whod agreed to re-issue 
the cheque to his new address.  So again, Id have expected Mr M to receive this. Im aware Mr M says he didnt but again, I think the issuing of the cheque was the responsibility of 
Lender H, not Allay. 
Ive seen Allay did try to chase this with Lender H themselves. But by this point, the LOA 
Allay had sent to Lender H was more than six months old and it had also been six months 
since the PPI offer was made. So, Lender H refused to deal with Allay any further. This is 
standard industry process and I dont think I can hold Allay responsible for this.
While Allay couldve asked Mr M for another LOA to pursue the refund on his behalf, I dont 
think this is something they were obliged to do in this instance. Allay were instructed to 
pursue a claim for mis-sold PPI on Mr Ms behalf and theyd completed this when the claim 
was successful. I think the payment of this refund was a matter between Lender H and Mr M 
and Id have expected Mr M to take steps to ensure it was received.
Instead, Mr M has explained he stopped chasing Lender H for a period of time due to the 
COVID-19 pandemic. And when he has tried to speak to them since, hes been unable to get 
through. While I recognise the frustration this wouldve caused, again I dont think its fair to 
hold Allay responsible for issues between Mr M and Lender H directly.
I understand Mr M is unhappy Allay re-started their collection activity and I appreciate the 
shock and upset it may have caused. But crucially, I dont think Allay were unfair to do this. 
Allay secured a PPI refund for Mr M in November 2019. And I wouldve expected their 
settlement fee to be paid within a reasonable amount of time. Ive seen Allay suspended 
their collection process to allow Mr M time to ensure his refund was paid to him and I think 
this was fair. And I dont think its reasonable to expect Allay to suspend this indefinitely as 
their settlement fee was owed to them under the terms of the agreement Mr M agreed to.
So, I dont think the delay in Mr M receiving his refund has been caused by anything did 
wrong. And I dont think Allay have invoiced Mr M for their fee unfairly as this fee was due at 
the point Mr Ms claim was upheld by Lender H. While I appreciate why Mr M may feel Allay 
couldve done more to help him retrieve his refund from Lender H, I dont think they were 
obliged to do so and I dont think theyve acted unfairly because of this. Because of the 
above, I dont think Allay need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr M as hoping for. And I recognise he say he is still 
without the refund hes due from Lender H. But this is a concern he needs to raise with 
Lender H, as they are the business who mis-sold him the PPI and owe him the PPI refund. 
So, I think Allay are entitled to chase Mr M for their fee given the amount of time thats 
passed since the claim was successful.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Allay Claims Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman