DRN-4117208
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr A complain about the price charged by Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited (Lloyds Bank) to renew their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs A and Mr A received a quote to renew their policy which they say was almost double 
what theyd paid the previous year. Mr A says he made several calls to Lloyds Bank to find 
out the reason for the increase, but he didnt receive a satisfactory explanation. Mr A says, 
during one call, he was given conflicting information and also felt the call handler wasnt 
actively listening to him. So, Mr A complained about this and the price quoted. 
Lloyds Bank responded and explained the price Mrs A and Mr A received in the recent 
renewal reflected changes theyd made following rules introduced by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). They explained this meant existing customers couldnt be charged more 
than new customers. They said the price increase was primarily driven by Lloyds Bank 
bringing Mrs A and Mr As price in line with the current price for new customers. In relation to 
the phone call, Lloyds Bank accepted the service had fallen short, so they paid £100 
compensation.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs A and Mr A. He thought Lloyds Bank hadnt 
treated Mrs A and Mr A unfairly in relation to the pricing. And he agreed the £100 
compensation paid was reasonable. Mrs A and Mr A disagreed so the matter has come to 
me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs A and Mr A will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mrs A and Mr As premium for their 2021 renewal was £446.42. They were then 
quoted £892.83 which was reduced down to £758.88 after Mr A called Lloyds Bank. So, I do 
understand why Mrs A and Mr A are concerned about the increase in the premium. Lloyds 
Bank have provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain how     
Mrs A and Mr As premiums were calculated. Im afraid I cant share this with them because 
its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it carefully. And, Im satisfied the premium 
theyve been charged has been calculated correctly and fairly and Ive seen no evidence that 
other Lloyds Bank customers in Mrs A and Mr As position will have been charged a lower 
premium. 
I acknowledge Mrs A and Mr A want a more detailed breakdown showing the reason for the 
increased premium. As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about Lloyds Banks 
risk model, but I can see a significant factor relates to new rules for general insurance pricing 
introduced by the FCA in January 2022. They apply to motor and buildings insurance only 
and insurers need to make sure they comply with these rules when offering renewals. The 
rules arent retrospective and only apply to renewals generated from 1 January 2022. 
The rules were put in place to remove the risk of existing customers paying more than new 
customers. It places an obligation on insurers to make sure they charge renewing customers 
the same as new customers. The FCA refers to this as the equivalent new business price 
(ENBP). The ENBP needs to be reflective of the new business price the day the renewal 
invite is generated. It is accepted the view of risk can change and the rules dont mean all 
insurers need to charge the same price and the FCA accepts that policies bought through 
different brands will likely offer similar cover at different prices. It also understands that 
different sales channels for the same brand might result in different prices and it accepts this 
is fair. The new pricing rules were in place when Mrs A and Mr A were offered their renewal 
by Lloyds Bank in 2022, so they did need to follow these at the time. 
I can see, when Mr A raised a query about the price, Lloyds Bank did apply a discount. A 
business shouldnt offer a price higher than the ENBP and Im satisfied Lloyds Bank havent 
done that here. The renewal invite for 2022 asks Mrs A and Mr A to get in contact if they 
have concerns as Lloyds Bank might be able to offer a discount. So, Im satisfied the 
discount they applied here wasnt to correct a mistake theyd made with the original quote 
but was as a result of a discretionary discount. 
Lloyds Bank have also told us that Mrs A and Mr A paid below their target price and theyve 
told us how their target pricing model applies to Mrs A and Mr As policy. The target pricing 
model demonstrates whether Lloyds Bank treated Mrs A and Mr A fairly. It allows us to see 
whether what they were charged was in line with how theyve said they treated all of their 
policyholders  regardless of whether they engaged with them. Im afraid I cant share the 
detail of their model with Mrs A and Mr A as its commercially sensitive to Lloyds Banks 
business. But I hope it reassures Mrs A and Mr A to know Ive checked Lloyds Banks target 
price and what they quoted in 2022. And Im satisfied that Lloyds Bank didnt charge Mrs A 
and Mr A more than their target price for 2022. 
In addition to this, Ive seen the renewal letter sent to Mrs A and Mr A in 2022 and I can see 
Lloyds Bank did remind Mrs A and Mr A that they could shop around to see if they could get 
a better price. As there have been at least four renewals, then section 6.5 of the Insurance 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) requires a business to provide specific wording 
about the benefits of shopping around. So, as well as treating Mrs A and Mr A fairly, I think 
theyve also acted in line with requirements set out under ICOBS. 
I acknowledge Mrs A and Mr A may feel such a significant increase is unfair, but Lloyds 
Bank, like all insurers, will review their approach to risks at different points and this will result 
in changes to the premium. They have explained the ENBP was a change across all their 
policies as they changed their approach. So in short, they have treated all customers the 
same with the change and Mrs A and Mr A havent been treated differently or unfairly when 
they chose to change their approach. In relation to Mr As complaint about the phone call, the key facts about this part of the 
complaint arent in dispute. Lloyds Bank have admitted they got things wrong when the call 
handler provided incorrect information about the price and also their handling of the call. The 
only issue I have to decide is whether their payment of compensation is fair and reasonable. 
I think its right that Lloyds Bank should compensate Mrs A and Mr A for the confusion and 
frustration caused by the phone call. To help decide what a fair and reasonable level of 
compensation should be, Ive looked at the error by Lloyds Bank and what the impact of that 
error has been. 
Ill start off by saying, I can see Mr A feels its important for our service to listen to this call. I 
acknowledge Mr As point, but I dont believe its necessary for me to listen to this as the key 
facts about the call arent in dispute. Ive compared Lloyds Banks call notes to Mr As 
recollection of the call, and the issues surrounding the service are broadly consistent. Lloyds 
Bank accept the call handler gave a price of £645.07 for Mrs A and Mr As level of cover 
during the call and they werent actively listening to Mr A. I can see Mr A raises further points 
about the call, he says he was given a series of different prices and that the call handler 
claimed the £645.07 cover was for a lower level of cover. While Im not doubting this, the 
issue Im looking at here  and agree with  is that Lloyds Bank gave incorrect information 
about the price. I can see there was some disagreement between Mr A and the call handler 
during the call. Mr A says the call handler gave a price of £645.07 for gold cover but then 
later claimed theyd already explained this was the price for silver cover. I understand why 
this frustrated Mr A when he challenged the call handler on this, but I can see Lloyds Bank 
accept theyd made an error when the call handler incorrectly gave this price for gold cover.
I note the phone call left Mr A frustrated but the incorrect information about the price was 
corrected during the call  so I believe the impact of this was limited. An incorrect price was 
given, which suggested to Mr A that a further discount could be applied, but Ive seen no 
evidence this price was actually available to Mrs A and Mr A. So, while theres been an error, 
it was corrected during the call, so I think the £100 already paid is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
I understand Mrs A and Mr A will be disappointed, and I fully understand why the 2022 
renewal price led them to complain. But I hope my reasoning provides them with 
reassurance that they havent been treated unfairly or differently to other customers in the 
same circumstances. I wish to reassure Mrs A and Mr A Ive read and considered everything 
theyve sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt 
because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to 
explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal 
nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman