DRN-2996465
The complaint
Mr B complains about time taken to transfer the proceeds of his Group Personal Pension 
(GPP) to an existing Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Tilney Investment 
Management Services Limited trading as Bestinvest (Tilney). He considers that delays 
caused by Tilney resulted in a financial loss and hed like to be compensated for this.
What happened
Mr B had a GPP with a provider Ill refer to as Provider A, which he wanted to transfer to 
his SIPP with Tilney. Tilneys SIPP is operated by a third party Ill refer to as Firm E, which 
is the SIPP Trustee and Administrator.
Concerned about the potential impact of the COVID-19 outbreak on the stock market and 
therefore the value of his pensions, Mr B decided to transfer his GPP to his SIPP. He called 
Tilney on 20 January 2020 to request the transfer, asking for it to be processed 
electronically. Tilney emailed Mr B a transfer form on the same day. 
Upon learning that Mr Bs employer would, following the transfer, be making monthly 
contributions to his SIPP, Tilney asked Mr B on 22 January 2020 to complete two forms 
relating to this. 
Mr B completed Tilneys transfer form and returned it to Tilney on 23 January 2020. The 
following day, Tilney contacted Mr B, asking whether his GPP contained any safeguarded 
benefits. Mr B said it didnt, adding that as Provider A had confirmed it used the electronic 
transfer system, Origo, his GPP could be transferred this way. 
Tilney later received Mr Bs completed contribution forms and forwarded these, along with 
his transfer form, to Firm E on 27 January 2020. Firm E sent Mr Bs forms to Provider A on 
the same day.
Tilney chased Firm E for an update on Mr Bs transfer on 12 February 2020. Firm E called 
Provider A about this the following day but received no response. It chased Firm A again via 
email on 25 February 2020 and was told that Mr Bs transfer was with Provider As 
processing team.
On 9 March 2020 Mr B called Tilney, questioning why his transfer wasnt completed and 
expressing concern that it wasnt being processed electronically. Having checked its records, 
Tilney confirmed that the transfer was being processed manually, but said it wasnt clear 
why. Concerned by this, Mr B commented on the stock market being in decline and how he 
didnt want the value of his pension to be impacted by this. He asked Tilney whether it had 
asked for his transfer be processed electronically in the first place, to which Tilney said it 
would check this and get back to him.
Having spoken with Provider A directly, Mr B called Tilney again on 9 March 2020. He said 
Provider A had explained that it hadnt been able to process his transfer because the 
National Insurance (NI) number Firm E had submitted for him didnt match its records. Tilney 
confirmed that it had Mr Bs correct NI number and said it would pass this onto Firm E. Mr B 
repeated his concerns about the state of the stock market and asked for his transfer to be 
dealt with as priority.
On 10 March 2020 Firm E asked Tilney for confirmation of any safeguarded benefits under 
Mr Bs GPP. Having received this, Firm E sent Mr Bs transfer request to Provider A via 
Origo. Following this, questions were raised internally at Tilney about why the transfer 
request hadnt been made electronically in the first place. 
Tilney emailed Mr B on 11 March 2020, confirming that his transfer request had been made 
electronically on 10 March 2020. It said this hadnt been done earlier as it had been waiting 
for confirmation from Provider A that his GPP didnt contain any safeguarded benefits. Mr B 
responded saying that confirmation of this had been provided to Tilney previously. He asked 
when the transfer would be completed and requested that it be actioned urgently. Mr B 
reminded Tilney that hed wanted his GPP holdings disinvested as soon as possible to avoid 
a reduction in the value of his pension.
Firm E emailed Tilney on 13 March 2020 saying Provider A had informed it that as one of 
Mr Bs investment holdings was in a suspended fund, the proceeds of this couldnt be 
transferred. Provider A had therefore asked for confirmation that Mr B was happy to proceed 
with a partial transfer, leaving his holding in the suspended fund with Provider A. Firm E 
asked Tilney to get Mr Bs confirmation. Tilney responded on the same day asking if 
Provider A had confirmed which fund was suspended and whether email confirmation from 
Mr B was sufficient. 
Firm E responded to Tilney on 16 March 2020 saying that email confirmation acceptable. 
Tilney emailed Firm E on the same day, asking it to confirm what Provider A thought the best 
course of action was given the volatility of stock market and Mr Bs suspended fund. 
Mr B emailed Tilney on 16 March 2020 asking for an update. Again, he expressed 
dissatisfaction with its transfer process. 
In response to its 16 March 2020 email, Firm E emailed Tilney on 17 March 2020, confirming 
that it was up to Mr B how he wished to proceed with the transfer and that neither it nor 
Provider A could provide financial advice.
Tilney responded to Mr Bs 11 and 16 March 2020 emails on 18 March 2020. It explained 
that as Firm E had needed to carry out its own due diligence and contact Provider A about 
whether his GPP contained safeguarded benefits, the transfer hadnt been initiated instantly. 
It said Mr Bs NI number had initially been submitted incorrectly and, although resubmitted 
correctly by Firm E a day later, it was sorry for the delay. In terms of where things stood with 
the transfer, it explained the situation with the suspended fund and asked Mr B to confirm he 
was happy to go ahead with a partial transfer. Tilney apologised for how long the transfer 
was taking and said the suspended fund appeared to have caused the slight delay.
Mr B responded to Tilney on 20 March 2020 saying he wished to complain about how his 
transfer had been handled. He described Tilneys service as appalling, noting that instead of 
being told how things were progressing, hed always had to call it for updates. 
On 23 March 2020 Tilney received Mr Bs confirmation that he wished to proceed with a 
partial transfer.
Mr B emailed Tilney on 26 March 2020, questioning why hadnt been provided with an 
update.Tilney emailed Firm E on 27 March 2020 confirming that Mr B was happy to proceed with a 
partial transfer. It asked for the transfer to be actioned as a priority given Mr Bs complaint 
and how long the transfer process had been going on.
Firm E re-requested Mr Bs transfer electronically via Origo on 29 March 2020. 
Further to his 20 and 26 March 2020 emails, Mr B wrote to Tilney again on 30 March 2020 
saying the time taken to transfer was unacceptable. He asked for an update to be provided 
the following day.  
Tilney responded to Mr B on 31 March 2020, confirming that his partial transfer instruction 
had been passed to Firm E, which had submitted it to Provider A, so the transfer could be 
processed. It explained that current circumstances  presumably, those relating to the 
pandemic  meant things were taking more time.
Mr B chased Tilney for an update on 7 April 2020. He said Provider A had confirmed five 
days earlier that his GPP funds had been transferred, so he questioned why they werent 
appearing in his SIPP. Tilney responded on the same day, apologising, and explaining that 
receiving the funds may take a few more days, but it would update him once this happened.
Tilney emailed Mr B on 8 April 2020 confirming that his transfer from Provider A was 
complete. The calculation date Provider A used for the transfer was 2 April 2020.
Tilney later provided its final response to Mr Bs complaint and in summary said:
Its service standard for transfers was 8-12 weeks and Mr Bs transfer met this.
Mr Bs transfer request was sent to Provider A via Origo in good time, and it wasnt 
until 25 February that any meaningful contact was received from Provider A about it. 
In the absence of information regarding safeguarded benefits, Firm E was unable to 
take the transfer further any earlier than it did.
Although it provided Firm E with the incorrect NI number, this was corrected a day 
later.
Regarding Mr Bs suspended investment, it contacted Mr B on 18 March 2020 to 
check how he wanted to proceed. But as it didnt receive Mr Bs response until 23 
March 2020, this delayed the transfer by 4 days.
Its normal practice was to pass Firm E any information it obtained from a customer 
regarding safeguarded benefits under a plan. It apologized for not doing this in Mr Bs 
case, saying that if it had, Mr Bs transfer wouldve been processed more quickly. It 
explained that its staff incorrectly assumed that Firm E would carry out its own 
checks.
It apologised for its error and recognised this meant that Mr B hadnt received the 
transfer value he shouldve because of this. According to its service standards, the 
earliest date the transfer couldve completed was 20 March 2020. Based on this not 
happening, it calculated Mr Bs financial losses to be £290.73. In addition to this it 
offered to pay Mr B £200 for trouble and upset caused.  
Unhappy with Tilneys response, Mr B referred his complaint to our service. He said Tilneys 
delays had resulted in him losing approximately £13,000 off the value of his GPP during the 
transfer period.
One of our investigators considered the matter and, in summary, concluded that Mr Bs 
transfer shouldve been completed on 18 February 2020. She said Tilney should establish 
what Mr Bs losses were on this basis and pay this into his SIPP to increase its value by the given amount. She though that Tilneys offer of £200 to Mr B for trouble and upset caused 
was appropriate.
Mr B accepted our investigators findings, however Tilney disagreed. It said the investigator 
hadnt considered the impact of Provider As delays on the overall transfer process. As no 
agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im intending to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken 
note of all the arguments made by both parties, Ive limited my response to the issues I 
consider to be central to this complaint. Thats to say:
Whether Tilney did all that was required, fulfilling its responsibility regarding the 
transfer of Mr Bs GPP.
Whether Tilney caused any avoidable delays in the transfer of Mr Bs GPP.
Whether, based on any avoidable delays, Tilney has offered to appropriately 
compensate Mr B for any financial losses hes sustained.
Although several different parties were involved in the transfer process, my findings are 
based on Tilneys acts or omissions as its the party Mr B has complained about. Im aware 
that Tilney believes Provider A contributed to delays with the transfer and while Im unable to 
make a finding on Provider As actions, Id like to reassure Tilney that this doesnt mean Ive 
ignored the impact of any delays it may have caused, or that Ive held Tilney responsible for 
these.
In addition to Tilney and Provider As actions, Ive considered Firm Es role during the 
transfer process. Tilney hasnt disputed responsibility for Firm Es actions, but Id like to be 
clear about my position on the matter as its relevant to my findings. 
As I understand it, Firm E is contracted by Tilney to provide administrative services for its 
SIPP, which includes processing transfers. So, it seems reasonable to expect that Tilney is 
able to hold Firm E to account for the services it provides in this respect. If Firm E, in its 
capacity as Tilneys SIPP administrator, contributed to delays in the transfer process, I think 
its fair that Mr Bs complaint is against Tilney. And as theres nothing to indicate any direct 
contractual relationship between Mr B and Firm E, I think its reasonable to hold Tilney 
responsible for any delays Firm E may have caused or contributed to while carrying out a 
service its contracted by Tilney to provide. 
Overall, I have real sympathy for Mr B. Its clear to me that the smooth and timely transfer of 
his GPP was of great importance to him. In deciding to transfer Mr B was taking specific and 
deliberate action to safeguard the value of his plan when, as Tilney acknowledged, financial 
markets were volatile. So, I can understand why Mr B was concerned and ultimately 
disappointed with how long the transfer took. In his view he did all that was required to 
ensure the transfer went through quickly, but delays caused by Tilney prevented this from 
happening and resulted in him suffering an avoidable financial loss.
As his SIPP provider and the receiving scheme, Mr B understandably expected Tilney to act 
in his best interests, doing all it could to ensure the transfer was completed as soon as it 
could be. With this in mind, Ive thought about what was required to complete the transfer; what Tilneys service standard for transfers is; and, critically, whether the time taken to 
complete each stage of the transfer was reasonable given that Mr B requested an electronic 
transfer.
Although Tilney says that Mr Bs transfer was completed within its 812-week service 
standard, I dont think this automatically means it was processed in a timely fashion. Im not 
aware that, where possible, Tilneys service standards precluded it from completing the 
transfer earlier than it did. So, while mindful of its service standard, Ive also thought about 
when the transfer could reasonably have been completed, bearing in mind everything that 
happened.  
Transferring a pension can involve numerous individual steps, but based on what Ive seen 
in this case, I think the key stages and requirements for Mr Bs transfer can be summarised 
as follows:
1. The customer advises Tilney (the receiving scheme) that they want to transfer a plan 
held with Provider A (the ceding scheme) to it.
2. Tilney provides the customer with relevant transfer forms.
3. The customer returns their completed transfer forms to Tilney.
4. If information the customer provides on the transfer forms indicates their plan might 
be an occupational pension, Tilney asks for confirmation of any safeguarded benefits 
under the plan.
5. The customer provides confirmation of any safeguarded benefits to Tilney.
6. Tilney forwards the customers transfer forms along with confirmation of any 
safeguarded benefits to its SIPP administrator, Firm E.
7. Firm E carries out its own checks and, once satisfied, enters the customers transfer 
request onto Origo, which includes keying in the customers NI number.
8. Provided that all details are correct and no further information is needed, Provider A 
processes the transfer and sends the requested funds to the customers existing plan 
with Tilney.
Taking into account the above, Ive looked carefully at the transfer as it occurred to identify 
any delays Tilney was responsible for and assess their impact. 
From what Ive seen, stages 1-5 were completed within a reasonable period. Tilney was 
quick to request information from Mr B to initiate the transfer process and Mr B was equally 
prompt with his responses. It seems the first issue arose at stage 6 when, instead of 
forwarding Mr Bs transfer forms and safeguarded benefits confirmation to Firm E, Tilney 
only passed on his transfer forms. 
Despite sometimes carrying out its own checks, Tilney has explained that Firm E still relies 
on it sharing any information it obtains from a customer about safeguarded benefits under 
the plan being transferred. It says that sharing this information with Firm E is part of its 
normal process and it apologises for the fact that this didnt happen when it shouldve in Mr 
Bs case. It acknowledged the impact of this in its final response, saying that were it not for 
this oversight, Mr Bs transfer would have been processed more quickly. I agree. 
Ordinarily, Tilney says that it sends a customers completed transfer forms and safeguarded 
benefits confirmation to Firm E at the same time. But in Mr Bs case, it sent his transfer 
forms on 27 January 2020 and didnt provide his safeguarded benefits confirmation until 
10 March 2020, when Firm E specifically requested it.
Theres nothing to suggest that Mr Bs transfer was out of the ordinary, such that Tilneys 
normal process wouldnt apply. So, I think its fair to say that Tilney shouldve sent Firm E 
Mr Bs safeguarded benefits confirmation on the same day it sent his transfer forms  on 27 January 2020  which was 27 working days earlier than it did. Following this, its 
reasonable to expect that, as it did, Firm E wouldve gone on to send Mr Bs transfer request 
to Provider A on the same day.
On 12 February 2020, 8 working days after Firm E submitted Mr Bs transfer request to 
Provider A, Tilney chased Firm E for an update. Firm E contacted Provider A about the 
transfer the following day. And having received no response, it chased Provider A again on 
25 February 2020, when it was confirmed that Mr Bs transfer was with Provider As 
processing team. By this time, Mr Bs transfer had been with Provider A for 22 working days. 
And its at this stage that I think it became clear that Tilney, engaged to act on Mr Bs behalf 
and facilitate the transfer, hadnt taken steps ensure that his request for an electronic 
transfer was, where possible, being actioned. 
Electronic transfers, using real-time software packages like Origo, allow transfers to take 
place without the need for providers to complete or exchange the paperwork usually required 
for transfers processed by more traditional methods. Providers can provide live updates via 
the Origo platform and, where necessary, request information to help move things forward. 
In short, Origo is meant to speed things up and streamline the transfer process. 
Tilney hasnt given a reasonable explanation for why Mr Bs transfer wasnt, as requested, 
processed electronically. Although it says that Firm Es responsible for entering transfer 
requests onto Origo, this doesnt address the fact that its Tilney, not Firm E, which had 
direct contact with Mr B and was therefore privy to his electronic transfer request. 
Other than through Tilney, I cant see that Firm E had any way of knowing that Mr B wanted 
an electronic transfer. This leads me to conclude that the reason Mr Bs transfer request 
wasnt entered into Origo by Firm E until 10 March 2020  instead of on 27 January 2020 
when Firm E shouldve had all it needed to send Mr Bs request to Provider A  was 
because, much like what happened with Mr Bs safeguarded benefits confirmation, Tilney 
failed to share relevant information and tell Firm E that Mr Bs transfer should be requested 
electronically. In my view, Tilneys mistake here was central to how long the transfer took 
overall. 
Generally, electronic transfers are meant to take days, sometimes weeks, as opposed to 
months to complete. So, bearing that in mind and the fact that Tilney didnt tell Firm E to 
initiate Mr Bs transfer electronically when it shouldve, Ive thought about what, on balance, 
would likely have happened  and when  but for Tilneys error. 
As Ive said, I think Firm E shouldve entered Mr Bs transfer request into Origo on 
27 January 2020, at which point it wouldve been ready for Provider A to pick up. To 
determine when, after 27 January 2020, Provider A wouldve started processing the request, 
Ive looked at how long it took to do so when Firm E entered the request into Origo on 10 
March 2020. On that occasion, Provider A picked up and began reviewing the request on the 
same day it was submitted. So, I think its reasonable to expect the same wouldve likely 
happened if Firm E had submitted the request on 27 January 2020.
Ive considered the 22 working days which passed between Firm E submitting Mr Bs 
request to Provider A manually and Provider A confirming that the transfer was still with its 
processing team. But this doesnt alter my thinking regarding Tilneys responsibility for how 
long the transfer took. I accept that 22 working days wasnt an insignificant amount of time 
for Mr Bs request to have been with Provider A, but Im conscious that his request wouldnt 
have been with Provider A, being processed manually, were it not for Tilney failing to tell 
Firm E to request the transfer electronically in the first place. Had it done so, Mr Bs request 
would, as Ive said above, likely been picked up by Provider A on the same day it was 
submitted, avoiding the 22 working day delay entirely. By 9 March 2020, Mr B was understandably concerned that the transfer hed requested in 
January hadnt yet been completed, so he called Tilney. Having listened to the calls, I dont 
think Tilneys responses were especially helpful or a fair representation of matters. For 
example, Tilney told Mr B that it had been chasing Provider A for updates on his transfer 
since January. But the available evidence doesnt reflect this. From what Ive seen, Tilney 
only chased Firm E once for an update from Provider A between January and March 2020. 
Tilney also gave the impression that there was little it could do to influence how long the 
transfer took. As Mr B was transferring in, it suggested that progress was almost entirely 
dependent on Provider As actions. I dont think this was an accurate characterisation of 
Tilneys role here. As the receiving scheme, Tilneys role was to gather and pass on relevant 
information to the parties involved, including ensuring that Provider As requirements were 
met and enabling it to release Mr Bs funds and complete the transfer. To this degree, I think 
Tilney had a significant and overriding role in driving forward the transfer process and 
impacting how long it took to complete.
During the calls on 9 March 2020, Tilney confirmed that Mr Bs transfer was being processed 
manually rather than electronically. And Mr B shared that, having spoken to Provider A 
directly, hed learned that his transfer was at a standstill because Firm E hadnt provided his 
correct NI number. 
Although the issue with Mr Bs NI number was resolved the day after the error was identified, 
meaning the resulting delay was minimal, I think it compounded Tilneys other mistakes and 
caused Mr B further worry about his GPP.  
Tilney accepts that it gave Firm E the incorrect NI number. I think its reasonable to have 
expected the correct number to have been provided at the same time Ive said Tilney 
shouldve forwarded Mr Bs transfer forms and safeguarded benefits confirmation to Firm E  
on 27 January 2020. And further to Firm E submitting Mr Bs transfer request via Origo, 
Provider A couldve picked up and begun processing it on the same day.
Once Firm E had Mr Bs transfer forms, safeguarded benefits confirmation and correct NI 
number, the transfer request was submitted electronically via Origo on 10 March 2020 and 
Provider A began processing it. On 13 March 2020 Provider A told Firm E that one of Mr Bs 
investment holdings was in a suspended fund, so he would need to agree to a partial 
transfer move forward.
From what Ive seen, the fund Mr Bs investment holding was in was suspended by the 
investment manager on 4 December 2019. So, notwithstanding Tilneys acts or omissions 
after this, Mr B was only ever going to be able to transfer from Provider A on a partial basis 
when he made his request in January 2020. In my view, the real difference Tilneys actions 
made here arose from what it did after Firm E told it about the suspended fund and asked it 
to contact Mr B for confirmation of his agreement to a partial transfer. 
Tilney took three working days to contact Mr B about the suspended fund. Although not 
unreasonable generally, I wouldve expected Tilney to act with more urgency, contacting Mr 
B within, at most, two days of being told about the suspended fund. Particularly given its 
earlier errors and concerns Mr B had already raised about the transfer.
Having been made aware of the suspended fund, Tilneys correspondence with Firm E 
showed that it recognised the significance of this news and its relation to the volatility of the 
stock market at the time and ultimately the value of Mr Bs GPP. So, its unclear to me why 
upon receiving an update request from Mr B on 16 March 2020, in which he expressed increasing fear about his transfer, that Tilney didnt respond to him immediately. Especially 
as it still hadnt replied to his earlier 11 March 2020 email by this point.
Recognising that Mr Bs transfer request was time sensitive and progressing it accordingly 
was one of Tilneys key responsibilities as the ceding scheme. And I consider 
communicating effectively with Mr B during the transfer process to be a central part of this. 
Unfortunately, I think Tilney fell short in this respect at times. I acknowledge the efforts it was 
making behind the scenes to move the transfer forward but these provided little 
reassurance to Mr B when Tilney wasnt always sharing what they were; forthcoming when 
updates were requested or as proactive as it shouldve been about contacting Mr B when 
there were developments with the transfer and his input was needed to move things forward. 
As a result, I think Tilney caused Mr B avoidable trouble and upset. 
As Ive said, by 27 January 2020, Mr Bs transfer shouldve been picked up by Provider A on 
Origo for processing. I think its fair to assume that, as it did in March 2020, Provider A 
wouldve told Firm E about the suspended fund and Mr Bs partial transfer option within 3 
working days of picking up the request  so on 30 January 2020. It follows that Firm E 
wouldve contacted Tilney on the same day and if, as Ive said it shouldve, Tilney contacted 
Mr B 2 working days later, on 3 February 2020, then it wouldve had Mr Bs partial transfer 
confirmation by 6 February 2020. I say this because, in March 2020, Mr B provided his 
confirmation to Tilney within 3 working days of being asked for it.
Tilney didnt forward Mr Bs partial transfer confirmation to Firm E until 4 working days after 
receiving it. Ive seen no reason for this not happening immediately, especially given that 
Tilney asked Firm E to treat the matter as a priority. I think its reasonable to have expected 
Tilney to have acted with the same urgency given the circumstances. Had it done so, Mr Bs 
partial transfer confirmation couldve been passed to Firm E on 6 February 2020, with the 
request being submitted to Origo on the same day for Provider A to take forward. 
Mr Bs partial transfer was processed by Provider A and completed 8 working days after 
Firm E submitted the request. Based on this and following on from my view that Provider A 
shouldve had Mr Bs partial transfer confirmation by 6 February 2020, my conclusion, like 
the investigators, is that the transfer shouldve been completed on 18 February 2020. It 
follows that the calculation date used for Mr Bs transfer wouldve been 12 February 2020. 
This is in keeping with the fact that calculation date Provider A used when Mr Bs transfer 
was completed in April 2020 was 4 working days before Mr Bs GPP funds arrived in his 
SIPP.
Tilney has already offered to pay Mr B £200 for trouble and upset caused by its 
shortcomings in relation to the transfer. I consider this to be fair and reasonable bearing in 
mind the impact of Tilneys actions and what it couldve done better. So, I make no further 
award in respect of his non-financial loss. 
Although Tilney accepts that, because of its errors, Mr B didnt receive the GPP transfer 
value he was entitled to, Im not satisfied the way it proposed to put this right  notably, 
carrying out a loss calculation assuming a transfer completion date of 20 March 2020 
sufficiently compensates Mr B for what happened. So, Ive set out below what Tilney must 
do to put matters right.
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr B back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for delays caused by Tilney. That means Tilney will need to 
work out whether Mr B has suffered any financial loss by comparing what his SIPP with it is 
currently worth (the actual current fund value) with what it wouldve been worth (the notional fund value) had Tilney received his GPP transfer value (using a calculation date of 12 
February 2020) on 18 February 2020.
If the actual current fund value is higher than the notional value, theres no financial loss. But 
if the notional fund value is higher, Mr B has suffered a financial loss. In that case Tilney will 
need to pay the difference between the actual and the notional fund value.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr B hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
Tilney should provide details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear and simple format. 
Tilney should also pay Mr B £200 for trouble and upset caused unless this payment has 
already been made.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct Tilney Investment Management 
Services Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman