DRN-4330939
The complaint
Ms O complains that Fly Now Pay Later Limited is unfairly holding her liable to repay a loan.
What happened
Ms O is unhappy with a Fly Now Pay Later loan in her name. The loan was arranged to pay 
for flights that Ms O says she never booked, having only made enquiries with a third party 
travel company T.
Fly Now Pay Later says its records indicate that Ms O took out the loan. It obtained email 
exchanges between T and Ms Os email address that supported a flight booking was made 
(and subsequently amended). Fly Now Pay Later disputes that its acting unreasonably in 
expecting Ms O to repay the underlying loan.
Our investigator was satisfied with the circumstances in which the Fly Now Pay Later loan 
was taken out, and with the investigation it had carried out into the flight booking 
arrangements. She wasnt persuaded that the complaint should be upheld.
Ms O, assisted by her husband, didnt accept our investigators conclusions. She said she 
didnt make use of the flights due to Covid-19, that shed called to cancel the tickets and that 
while shed started making payment towards the loan, shed been unable to get a loan 
elsewhere to pay it off in full due to adverse payment information Fly Now Pay Later had 
recorded.
Our investigator didnt think there were grounds to require Fly Now Pay Later to remove the 
payment information from Ms Os credit file. And she didnt think the evidence demonstrated 
that Ms O had merely made an enquiry about flight booking. As Ms O hasnt accepted the 
investigators assessment, the complaint has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Os complaint. Im satisfied that Fly Now Pay Later 
has investigated Ms Os concerns and provided her with a response thats fair and 
reasonable, in light of the evidence it obtained.
I appreciate what Ms O has said about whether she made the booking. Fly Now Pay Later 
looked into that, sought and obtained evidence from T that showed Ms Os name (and other 
family members) on the original booking for flights in August 2021. It took into account 
emails to T sent from Ms Os email address, which confirm the arrangements as acceptable. 
And it has provided a copy of the credit agreement bearing Ms Os personal information and 
detailing the credit terms. This includes provision for Fly Now Pay Later to record late or 
missed payment information on Ms Os credit file.
Ive not seen persuasive evidence from Ms O to substantiate that she either cancelled the 
flights or that T told her theyd been cancelled. Neither of these is consistent with Ms Os 
position that she didnt make a booking but merely an enquiry.
I can accept that Ms O might not have made use of the flights, but that doesnt mean shes 
entitled to a refund. Its clear that the booking was made, and that the flights took place, 
even if Ms O wasnt on them. She might want to contact the airline to see about its refund 
terms in this respect. But based on what Ive seen, I cant fairly expect Fly Now Pay Later to 
take any further action to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman