DRN-2725478
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited declined an unemployment claim that he 
made on a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr O took out the MPPI policy in 2004. This was originally underwritten by a different insurer, 
with Aviva taking over the policy in December 2019.
Mr O was made redundant in October 2020 and contacted Aviva to make a claim on the 
policy. Aviva declined the claim on the grounds of eligibility as Mr O no longer had an active 
mortgage, having paid it off in 2017. Aviva then cancelled the policy. It subsequently asked 
Mr O for proof that he had redeemed the mortgage so that it could refund any premiums that 
he had paid since becoming ineligible for the policy.
Our adjudicators view was that Aviva had correctly declined the claim, so he did not uphold 
the complaint. Mr O disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and therefore his complaint has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Os policy was called Mortgage Repayment Protector and the terms of the policy 
contained the following wording:
Am I entitled to make a claim?
To make a claim the following statements must be true:
2. You and/or a member of your immediate family live in the UK property for which the 
mortgage agreement is held
Your insurance will end on the day that any of the following happen:
*  The date agreed by your lender for your mortgage agreement to be repaid is reached
* Your mortgage agreement is repaid early or ceases and is not replaced
* You no longer have a mortgage agreement (other than to pay your lender a fee for 
holding your title deeds in safe custody).
The above policy terms are clear that a person cannot make a claim unless they have a 
mortgage and that cover would end once a mortgage is no longer held. Furthermore, given 
the name of the policy, Mr O would have been aware (or ought reasonably to have been 
aware) that it provided cover for his monthly mortgage repayments and Mr O hasnt said that 
he believed it to be any other type of policy than that.
Aviva has provided evidence that it wrote to Mr O on 4 October 2019 to inform him of 
changes to the administration of the policy. The letter said that nothing had really changed 
apart from the fact that direct debits would start to show as Aviva on bank statements. 
However, Mr O says that he wasnt contacted by Aviva at that time and that he in fact 
cancelled the direct debit for the policy because he was suspicious that his bank statements 
were suddenly showing a payment to Aviva. He contacted Aviva at that time, who clarified 
the situation and the direct debits were reinstated. Mr O says that, during this change over 
period and his discussions with it, Aviva should have checked that he was still eligible for the 
policy.
Mr O has highlighted that Aviva told him that some onus must be on the customer to 
contact it if the policy no longer met their needs, which he sees as meaning that Aviva also 
hold some responsibility for ensuring that a policyholder remains eligible. Mr O has also 
highlighted that our adjudicator has said that the onus is on policyholder to inform the 
insurer of any changes relating to their mortgage agreement, which Mr O feels contradicts 
what Aviva has said.
I dont consider there is any contradiction between the two statements. Aviva talked in 
general terms about when a policy might no longer meet someones needs whereas our 
adjudicator was talking very specifically about changes to the mortgage agreement.
Aviva would know some details about Mr O and be able to act if it became aware that he 
was no longer eligible for the policy. For example, Aviva would know Mr Os date of birth and 
therefore could cancel the policy and inform Mr O of such if he reached the upper age limit. 
Therefore, by saying some onus, Aviva was taking responsibility for some aspects of 
knowing if a policy remained suitable. However, there are some things about Mr Os 
circumstances that Aviva wouldnt know and therefore it would need to rely on being told. 
Aviva would not have access to information about the status of Mr Os mortgage. Only Mr O 
and his lender would have been aware that the mortgage had been redeemed.
In addition to the above mentioned wording, the policy has a section called General 
Conditions, containing the following wording:
Information and changes we need to know about
You no longer have a mortgage agreement
If you move home or change your mortgage lender this insurance is designed to be portable 
but you must contact the Customer helpline to cancel this insurance when you no longer 
have a mortgage agreement (Please refer to the When does this insurance end? section 
of this policy).
Overall, I am satisfied that it was the responsibility of Mr O to inform the insurer that he no 
longer had a mortgage and that there was no duty on Aviva to check in 2019 if the policy still 
met Mr Os needs.
I understand that Mr O is upset that his claim will not be paid. However, the policy was 
designed to provide cover for his mortgage repayments and, as Mr O is no longer making 
monthly mortgage repayments, the claim was correctly declined on the grounds of Mr Os 
ineligibility for the policy.
In summary, it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim under the policy terms 
but to offer to refund the premiums Mr O had paid to it unnecessarily, subject to Mr O 
providing the necessary evidence that the mortgage has been redeemed.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman