DRN-3874478
The complaint
This complaint is about a joint mortgage and further advance with National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) taken out by Mrs S and Mr S. The complaint has been brought by 
Mrs Ss son, Mr B.
Mr B is representing Mrs S under a Power of Attorney. He says that a mortgage taken out in 
2015 and a further advance taken out in 2019 were mis-sold to Mrs S, who was pressurised 
by Mr S into agreeing to the loans. Mr B says that the only party who has benefitted from the 
mortgage and further advance is Mr S and that Mr S has continued to financially abuse 
Mrs S in relation to withdrawals from her bank accounts.
To settle the complaint, Mr S wants NatWest to do the following:
recognise the trail of financial exploitation by Mr S;
acknowledge that the lending was irresponsible;
void the mortgage and pay compensation to Mrs S;
hold Mr S liable for the mortgage;
remove Mr Ss name from the property title and mortgage.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mrs S, Mr S or Mr B being identified. So for these 
reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
In January 2016, Mrs S and Mr S took out a mortgage with NatWest. This was arranged by 
their own independent financial adviser who gave Mrs S and Mr S advice on the mortgage. 
They borrowed just over £140,000 over a term of 22 years on a capital repayment basis and 
used the money to purchase a property in their joint names.
In the spring of 2019, Mrs S and Mr S took out a further advance of £15,000, on a capital 
repayment basis with an end date to match the end of the main mortgage. By this time 
NatWest was aware that Mr B had raised concerns about Mr S, saying that Mrs S was 
mentally ill and vulnerable, and that he thought Mr S was exploiting Mrs S.
NatWest took these concerns seriously, and so before the further advance was granted, the 
bank spoke to Mrs S, without either her husband or any other family members being present. 
Having done so, NatWest was satisfied that Mrs S was aware of the further borrowing, that 
she wasnt in any difficulty or being coerced, and that she was happy to go ahead with the 
further advance. NatWest noted that it was Mrs S who was the main driver behind the 
application, phoning regularly and coming into the branch by herself to chase it up. The 
further advance completed in May 2019.
In 2020 Mr B raised a complaint with NatWest, saying that the bank should never have 
approved either the 2016 mortgage or the 2019 further advance. NatWest, in its final 
response letter, explained that it was very limited in what it could tell Mr B, given that he 
wasnt the account holder and that Mrs S hadnt given permission for the bank to speak to 
him. Mr B was given referral rights to our service and raised the complaint with us.
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that NatWest had taken steps to ensure that Mrs S was aware of, 
and agreed to, the further advance. He also wasnt persuaded that Mrs Ss bank statements 
showed evidence of financial abuse. 
The investigator also noted that reference in Mrs Ss medical notes to economic abuse was 
information that had been given to medical personnel by family members, rather than Mrs S. 
Overall, the investigator didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Hes reiterated all the 
points hes previously made about why he believes NatWest acted irresponsibly in granting 
not only the further advance, but the original mortgage in 2016. Mr B has also provided 
evidence that Mrs Ss health has recently deteriorated and that she now lacks the capacity to 
deal with her finances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I am very sorry to learn of the deterioration in Mrs Ss mental health. I am glad 
that a Power of Attorney was put in place before this, as otherwise it wouldnt be possible for 
us to look at the complaint unless and until a Guardian had been appointed for Mrs S. As 
things stand, the Power of Attorney means that Mr B is able to represent his mother in this 
complaint.
But I must also clarify that Mr B is only a representative  by which I mean his role is to bring 
his mothers complaint on her behalf. Mr B himself is not eligible to bring his own complaint 
against NatWest. Thats because we can only consider a complaint from the account 
holders, which in this case are Mrs S and Mr S. As Attorney acting under the Power of 
Attorney, Mr B is entitled under our rules to bring Mrs Ss complaint to us, but he isnt able to 
raise his own grievances about his dissatisfaction with what he believes the bank has, or has 
not, done.
I also note that, at the start of this complaint (and several months before Mrs S lost capacity) 
the investigator asked to speak to Mrs S to obtain her consent to the complaint and discuss 
it with her. But this didnt happen, and so we havent been able to establish that Mrs S is 
either aware of or consents to this complaint being brought. However, as Mrs S has now lost 
capacity and Mr B has Power of Attorney, on balance, I think we can consider the complaint, 
within the very limited parameters that Ive clarified below. 
Finally, although Mr S is a joint party to the mortgage account, he isnt joined in the 
complaint and (I assume, given the circumstances) would not consent to do so. This means 
that I dont have his permission to consider anything relating to his dealings with the bank, 
including his bank statements. 
As I said above, Mr B himself isnt entitled to bring his own complaint against NatWest. In the 
absence of a specific complaint from Mrs S herself (as opposed to Mr Bs numerous concerns), I have therefore looked at whether I think the bank has done anything wrong in 
relation to the 2016 mortgage and 2019 further advance.
The 2016 mortgage: I see from the mortgage application and offer that the mortgage was 
taken out after Mrs S and Mr S took advice from their own independent financial adviser. 
NatWest didnt give any advice about the mortgage, and so any concerns about the advice 
given would need to be raised with Mrs S and Mr Ss independent financial adviser. 
NatWest assessed the application on the basis of the information provided by the 
independent financial adviser about Mrs S and Mr Ss circumstances. There is nothing on 
the application form to lead me to conclude that NatWest did anything wrong in approving 
this mortgage, as it appears to be within affordability and lending criteria. 
I am not upholding this part of the complaint.
The 2019 further advance: There was a meeting with Mrs S and Mr S on 30 April 2019, 
when the mortgage advisor took full details of the application, including an assessment of 
income and affordability. It was recorded that the loan was for home improvements 
(bathroom and flooring). 
Shortly before the further advance was taken out, Mr B was in contact with NatWest 
expressing his concerns that Mrs S was being coerced and financially exploited by Mr S. I 
am glad to note that NatWest took these concerns seriously.
Correctly, NatWest explained to Mr B that it couldnt discuss the account with him. However, 
there were internal discussions within the bank about how to proceed. The bank (rightly) 
didnt want to cause detriment to the account holders on the basis of unsubstantiated 
concerns raised by Mr B about Mr S. But on the other hand, the bank (again, rightly) didnt 
want to ignore a concern that had been raised if Mrs S was indeed at risk.
As a result, when Mrs S came into the branch to chase up the application, a female member 
of staff was able to speak to her privately. Mrs S confirmed the purpose of the loan, why the 
money was being borrowed, that she was happy to take it out, that she wasnt in any 
difficulties and wasnt being threatened or coerced. I also note that it was Mrs S who was 
making regular calls to chase up the application, not Mr S. 
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded that there was anything further the bank could 
have done. Appropriate steps were taken to discuss the matter privately with Mrs S, and her 
answers were sufficient to persuade the bank that there was nothing untoward happening. 
Given this, Im not persuaded there is any basis on which, after Mrs S had confirmed 
everything was in order, that the bank could have done anything else other than approve the 
further advance. 
Account withdrawals: The majority of the account statements provided by Mr B relate to a 
different bank, and so Im unable to consider those as part of a complaint against NatWest. 
There is one NatWest statement which has no name on it, but which appears to be Mrs Ss 
current account. This covers the period 26 November 2018 to 12 March 2019 (so before the 
further advance was taken out). 
One payment for £4,000 in February 2019 has been redacted so I dont know who that was 
to. Mrs S paid out a total of £11,505 to a Miss B (who I understand is Mrs Ss daughter and 
Mr Bs sister) between 21-28 December 2018. I note there was a payment on 4 February 
2019 from Mrs S to Mr S for £7,000. There was also an automated credit of £1,500 on 28 
February 2019 from Mr S. Other transactions on the account were for general expenditure 
and bills, with the account remaining in credit throughout.There is nothing in that bank statement to persuade me that Mrs S was being coerced by 
Mr S.  The largest transactions on the account are the payments made to Mrs Ss daughter, 
not Mr S. There is also money paid in by Mr S. In the circumstances, I am not persuaded 
that this is evidence of financial abuse, exploitation or coercion.
Conclusion
Ive taken careful note of everything Mr B has sent us, and, as Ive explained above, the 
parameters of what I am able to consider in this complaint are fairly narrow, given that there 
was no actual complaint from Mrs S about the mortgage or further advance before she lost 
capacity. I have no doubt that Mrs Ss illness has been a source of great distress to Mr B 
and the rest of the family, and so I am truly sorry if my decision adds to this. I hope that 
Mrs S is receiving the best care possible and that she is soon able to recover.
In looking at this complaint, I have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy, and decide 
the case on the basis of the evidence. Having done so, Im unable to find that NatWest has 
done anything wrong. I know this isnt the outcome Mr B was hoping for. But after careful 
consideration of what happened, and for all the reasons given above, Im satisfied that the 
2016 mortgage was not irresponsible lending by NatWest. Im also satisfied that the 2019 
further advance wasnt mis-sold, and that the statement provided doesnt, in itself, amount to 
evidence of financial coercion by Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman