DRN-3657687
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Lloyds Bank plc refused to refund a payment shed made from her 
account by mistake.
What happened
Mrs O had a current account with Lloyds. On 2 July 2021 she made a payment to another 
account held with Lloyds. That account was in the name of X. She says she realised 
immediately that shed made this payment by mistake. She had wanted to make the 
payment to another account in her own name.
Mrs O contacted Lloyds on 2 July to tell it about the mistake shed made and asked it to 
reimburse the money to her account. She checked her records and noted that shed made a 
payment to X on a previous occasion in relation to goods shed purchased from him. She 
contacted him and she says he initially told her he would send the money back to her, but 
then subsequently claimed he was not the person whod received the money. He did not 
return the money to her account.
Mrs O says that by the time Lloyds acted on her request to refund the money to her account, 
there were no funds left in Xs account. She complained to Lloyds.
Lloyds looked into her complaint. It said it had followed its usual procedures for payments 
made in error. X had already removed the funds from his account when Lloyds tried to 
recover them. It said it hadnt made any error. Mrs O didnt agree, she referred her complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Os complaint. She initially said that the chargeback process 
applied here and that Lloyds had acted reasonably. Mrs O didnt agree. Our investigator 
looked at the complaint again. She subsequently said that because the payment had been 
made by bank transfer it was the Credit Payment Recovery process, and not the chargeback 
process, that applied. Our investigator thought that Lloyds had followed its own procedures. 
It had logged Mrs Os claim within 48 working hours. She thought this was reasonable. X 
had removed the funds from the account before Lloyds had been able to recover the money. 
She didnt think Lloyds had made an error.
Mrs O responded to say that she couldnt see any reason why Lloyds shouldnt refund the 
money given that shed reported the theft immediately and Xs account was with Lloyds. 
Because Mrs O didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what happened when Mrs O made the payment on 2 July 2021. The statement 
for her account indicates she made the payment just before 4.50pm. By mistake, instead of 
using the sort code and account number for her own account, she used account details from 
previous payments shed made to X. Shes told us that in the past when shed made 
payments to X she referenced them using her own name. That was how shed made the 
mistake on 2 July. She meant to make the payment to her own account but shed selected 
Xs details in error. I think that may explain why she wasnt asked to confirm the payee name 
before the payment could proceed. Lloyds website indicates that the confirmation of payee 
service only applies when new payment details are created. 
The Payment Services Regulations 2017, which apply to electronic payments, provide that 
when a payment has been made by mistake, which is what happened here, the payment 
service provider (in this case Lloyds) has an obligation to make reasonable efforts to 
recover the funds. But, there is no guarantee that this will result in the mistaken payment 
being returned.
There is also a process which has been agreed between UK banks to help recover mistaken 
payments. That process is known as the Credit Payment Recovery process and I can see 
that Lloyds terms and conditions make reference to this process. The terms and conditions 
state that if moneys are paid into an account by mistake, it can take from that account an 
amount up to the value of the mistaken payment. It doesnt need consent from the account 
holder to do this but the terms and conditions say that it will act reasonably. So, I think it is 
fair and reasonable to expect that it will carry out some checks before taking funds out of the 
account into which it has been told the mistaken payment has been made. 
Lloyds says it has procedures which mean that all claims about mistaken payments are 
processed within a reasonable period of time. As mentioned above, I would expect Lloyds to 
carry out some checks before removing funds from the account into which theyve been paid 
by mistake. So, I dont think it would be reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have 
immediately removed the funds from Xs account when Mrs O contacted it on 2 July 2021. It 
was already around 5.25pm when she contacted it. Lloyds did process Mrs Os claim the 
next working day  which was Monday 5 July 2021. And, having considered everything, Im 
not persuaded, on balance, it did anything wrong here or that there was an unreasonable 
delay actioning Mrs Os claim. 
Unfortunately, X had removed the funds from his account before Monday 5 July. So, even 
though Xs account was with Lloyds, Lloyds was not able to recover the funds. It did write to 
X subsequently to try to recover the funds, but he hasnt sent the money back. In these 
circumstances, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to refund the 
money to Mrs O or to do anything more, when X has already taken the funds from his 
account.
Ive also noted that Mrs O contacted X directly herself, to try to recover the funds  but 
despite his assurances that he would return the funds, he has not done so.
Having taken everything into account, whilst I can understand how frustrating this has been 
for Mrs O, I am satisfied, on balance, Lloyds has acted fairly and reasonably in line with its 
own procedures. I dont require it to have to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My Final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Irene MartinOmbudsman