DRN-3591800
The complaint
Mr F complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) hasnt 
properly compensated him for mistakes it made  in particular, he feels that £600 redress 
paid to him by Prudential in 2021 doesnt cover additional trouble since then.
What happened
In December 2020, Mr F contacted Prudential and requested information about an 
assurance policy (the plan) he had originally taken out with a third-party provider more than 
40 years ago. He was aware that Prudential had taken over the plan at some point and he 
paid £10 per month to Prudential. He understood that the policy had some tax-deductible 
features but wanted to find out more details  especially about capital gains tax (CGT). 
Prudential wrote to Mr F on 23 December 2020 informing him that there would be no tax 
liability on the plan at the time of cash-in - unless a change was made to the plan before 
then. 
A week or so later, Prudential sent a further letter saying that the amount liable for net 
capital gain tax is £92,477.92.
In January 2021, Mr F told Prudential he wanted to cash-in the plan. He contacted Prudential 
again in February 2021 and was given information that seemed to Mr F to conflict with what 
Prudential had told him previously. He requested more information regarding tax due on the 
plan.
Mr F didnt want to incur a tax bill on encashment and so, when Prudential didnt come back 
to him with any information, he instructed his broker to sell some of his shares at a loss.
After he experienced a number of poor service issues, including a letter being sent to the 
wrong address, excessive call waiting times and not receiving an expected letter following a 
phone call, Mr F formally complained to Prudential about its poor service.
Prudential sent a final response letter to Mr F on 15 April 2021 in which it acknowledged its 
mistakes. It couldnt explain why it had wrongly addressed a letter to Mr F - human error was 
considered the most likely explanation. Prudential gave Mr F an assurance that the letter he 
was waiting for would be sent to the correct address within the next week. Prudential 
apologised for the stress caused and paid £400 compensation to Mr F in respect of this. 
Unfortunately, Mr F then had further problems. He felt that Prudentials letter of 30 April 2021 
failed to provide a satisfactory response after he had asked for further clarification in relation 
to CGT, and Prudential didnt respond to further emails he sent about this. This led to 
another formal complaint to Prudential.
In a second final response letter dated 3 August 2021, Prudential said it was sorry that Mr F 
had received a poor level of service that hadnt met the standard he should expect from 
Prudential. It said feedback had been provided to all the relevant business managers making 
them aware of Mr Fs experience. It agreed that letters it had sent Mr F on 29 January and 
30 April 2021 didnt provide satisfactory responses and sincerely apologised. Prudential 
acknowledged that it was unacceptable that it hadnt responded to emails Mr F had sent on 
7 May and 5 July 2021 and said he should expect to shortly receive a letter with the further 
information and clarification he had requested. 
In recognition of the further poor service he had experienced, Prudential offered an 
additional £200 redress and arranged to pay this into Mr Fs account. 
Mr F didnt feel this offer went far enough to put things right and so he brought his complaint 
to us. He complained that Prudential didnt seem to know what type of policy he had and he 
got different answers from different people. He was unhappy that Prudential provided 
conflicting tax information, including during a phone call on 8 February 2021 which it had 
failed to make or keep any record of, and that it hadnt provided the clarification hed asked 
for about his tax liability. He told us he had relied on the incorrect advice given to him by 
Prudential, which resulted in him incurring broker fees and investment losses when he 
instructed his stockbroker to sell shares at a loss to mitigate his CGT liability. Overall, Mr F 
was frustrated and upset with the poor service Prudential had provided. 
After carefully looking into what happened, our investigator thought that Prudential had done 
enough to put things right. He felt that he couldnt fairly hold Prudential responsible for 
losses when it had been Mr Fs decision to sell shares at a loss. He said that whilst 
Prudential had given Mr F misleading information during a call on 19 January 2021, Mr F 
had straightaway corrected the agent, which showed he was by then aware that he wouldnt 
be paying CGT on the plan as he knew it would be deducted on encashment. 
Our investigator also explained that Prudential confirmed it hadnt offered financial advice to 
Mr F as he hadnt paid for an advice service. It said that the relationship Prudential had with 
Mr F didnt cover tax advice so it couldnt have provided him with any tax advice when he 
was deciding how to proceed for tax purposes. Prudential was only able to provide him with 
information on his plan - which it did.
Our investigator also mentioned that whilst Mr F had sold shares to avoid a tax bill, he could 
have chosen to potentially overpay any CGT instead and then make an application later to 
HMRC to recover this if he wasnt liable to pay. And he noted that Mr F had confirmed to the 
investigator that he didnt pay any CGT for the financial year after selling his shares in the 
plan.
Whilst there was no dispute that Prudential had provided poor customer service, overall, our 
investigator felt the £600 already offered and paid by Prudential was in line with what the 
Financial Ombudsman Service would consider fair redress and so he didnt recommend that 
Prudential do anything more.  
An exchange of correspondence between the investigator and Mr F followed. There had 
been a misunderstanding about whether the £600 our investigator mentioned in his view 
letter was an additional payment of redress on top of the £600 Prudential had already paid 
direct to Mr F. When the investigator confirmed his view that the redress paid already was 
sufficient overall, Mr F asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said he wished 
to pursue his case for compensation as he had understood he would receive a further £600 
payment for all the additional trouble.
So the complaint comes to me to decide.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive outlined above a brief summary of the events that resulted in Prudential paying £600 
redress in total to Mr F. Its agreed by both parties that there were a number of 
shortcomings in the service Prudential provided. So I dont feel I need to go into more detail 
about what happened as that part of the complaint isnt in dispute. I have concentrated on 
what seems to me to be Mr Fs main concern  which is that he expects Prudential to pay 
more redress for what happened, and in particular, to reflect the fact that his complaint has 
been ongoing since Prudential paid him £600. 
Theres information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach. 
Briefly, I need to decide what I think is likely to have happened if Prudential hadnt made 
errors or provided the poor service.
I've taken into account that Mr F held plan information which set out the CGT position. It 
said: 
You pay no capital gains tax on the proceeds of your policy. Under current legislation, a 
deduction will have to be made to provide for any liability of the life assurance fund to gains 
tax but, since payment of the tax may be deferred, the deduction need not be made at the 
full rate applicable to an individual.
In other words, Mr F had access to information confirming that CGT liability on the plan 
would be deducted from the plan itself and so wouldnt have to be paid by Mr F. 
Mr F had no good reason to think that the terms of the plan had changed and he wasnt 
aware of any change in relevant legislation (there had been none).
In addition to this, Prudential sent Mr F annual statements which showed the current value of 
his plan and stated: This includes a deduction for Capital Gains Tax.
I appreciate that one of the things Mr F had asked Prudential was whether, if it deducted any 
CGT due, this could be offset against any CGT losses he already had. But Prudential wasnt 
able to give Mr F tax advice.
 
So I think it's fair to say that the impact of Prudentials mishandling of Mr Fs enquiries about 
his CGT liability was off-set to some degree by the fact that he already had information he 
was asking regarding CGT. And if he required an answer to his query about offsetting CGT 
losses, then Mr F needed to look elsewhere for this information.  
I can completely understand why Mr F was frustrated by the contradictory information 
provided by Prudential in response to his emails and during phone calls  and its delays 
and failure to reply in some cases was unacceptable  as Prudential has admitted. 
But I agree with our investigator that, ultimately, despite the shortcomings and service 
failings on the part of Prudential, Mr F nevertheless did have access to the information he 
required and his decision to sell in order to mitigate any CGT liability was his own choice. In 
these circumstances, I cant fairly say that it was Prudentials poor service that led to him 
selling at a loss. And I think Mr F probably understood this  certainly, he seems to have 
had more knowledge about this than the Prudential agent he spoke to on the phone in January 2021  which was prior to most of the poor service issues arising and well before 
Mr F decided to sell.
So Ive carefully considered what redress is fair and reasonable in this situation to reflect 
the frustrations Mr F experienced as a result of the poor service Prudential provided. 
On balance, I think the redress Prudential has paid is reasonable. If it hadnt already 
volunteered this payment, I cant fairly say that I have seen enough to make me think it 
would be fair and reasonable to award any more than £600 in total. 
I appreciate that this complaint has proved vexing for Mr F  and theres no doubt at all that 
he received some unacceptably poor service from Prudential. But, I dont consider that 
there are grounds for me to award any further compensation to reflect the fact that the 
complaint has been ongoing since summer 2021. 
If Mr F feels he has further cause for complaint (that goes beyond the scope of the 
complaint he brought to us), then he should first tell Prudential what his concerns are, so it 
has an opportunity to respond. If he still feels unhappy after that, he may be able to bring a 
new complaint to this service. I cant award redress for any complaint where the financial 
business hasnt first been given a chance to put things right.  
I agree with our investigator that Prudential has provided fair redress for the service failings 
that resulted in this complaint. So no further redress is appropriate. 
Mr F has raised several different complaint points over the course of this matter and 
I acknowledge that he feels strongly about his complaint. If I have not referred to each point 
hes raised its only because I have nothing further I can usefully add to what our 
investigator has said already. I have concentrated on what I consider to be the main points 
that affect the outcome of his complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr F but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
As The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has already done everything I would expect 
it to do to put things right for Mr F, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman