DRN-3540834
The complaint
Mr L is a sole trader, trading as A. He is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin 
Money) removed the overdraft facility from his business current account without any notice. 
What happened
In March 2020, Mr L was granted an overdraft facility of £10,000 which was due to be 
reviewed on 30 September 2020. Mr L says he assumed the overdraft facility would 
automatically be renewed since he hadnt heard from Virgin Money requesting further 
information.
Mr L says he received a call from Virgin Money on 30 September 2020 casting doubt on the 
continued availability of the overdraft facility. But since the call wasnt from his relationship 
manager, he got in contact with them. He says his relationship manager apologised for the 
lack of discussion and notice. He was also reassured by phone and in email exchanges that 
the overdraft facility would be renewed. 
Despite this, Virgin Money told Mr L on 2 October 2020 that they werent renewing his 
overdraft facility and wanted to discuss repayment proposals. Unhappy with this Mr L raised 
a complaint. 
Virgin Money said Mr L wasnt using the overdraft facility for general business purposes as 
there were gambling transactions on the account. They apologised for the service they gave 
to Mr L as there was confusion around the potential renewal of the overdraft facility.
Our investigator said Virgin Money were able to decide to withdraw his overdraft facility and 
didnt need to give Mr L 30 days notice before doing so. Mr L disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin Money sent Mr L a letter on 30 March 2020 with an offer of an overdraft facility of 
£10,000. The overdraft terms and conditions enclosed within the letter and the business 
current account terms and conditions applied to this offer.
The terms and conditions of the overdraft facility say:
3.1 All amounts outstanding under or in respect of the Facilities are repayable on 
demand. If the Bank makes a demand for any Facility, all Facilities will be 
immediately cancelled.
3.2 The Bank may also, at any time, (1) review each Facility and/or (2) cancel all or 
any part of any Facility by notice to the Borrower. It is the Bank's present intention 
that each Facility will be reviewed on or around the review date for such Facility 
specified in clause 1.
3.3 On (1) any demand by the Bank for repayment of any Facility or (2) any Facility 
being cancelled all amounts outstanding under and in respect of such Facility will be 
immediately due and payable
The business current account terms and conditions say:
Unless we have specifically agreed otherwise with you, we may require you to repay 
your overdraft in whole or in part at any time. We can also reduce your overdraft limit 
at any time. If we demand repayment or reduce your limit, this will usually be due to a 
change or anticipated change in your circumstances. Where this is not the case and 
if we can reasonably do so without negatively impacting our ability to collect any 
amounts outstanding we will give you at least 30 days notice before making the 
change. If we reduce or remove our limit and you subsequently make requests for 
Unplanned Borrowing with regard to your revised limit, you will have to pay our 
unplanned borrowing fees and/or charges for returning items unpaid.
Based on this, I think its reasonably clear that Virgin Money are entitled to demand the 
repayment of the overdraft facility and/or cancel it in full or in part at any time. So, Im 
satisfied Virgin Money acted in line with the terms and conditions when they withdrew Mr Ls 
overdraft facility and asked for repayment. 
Virgin Money have explained they didnt renew Mr Ls overdraft facility due to the gambling 
activity on his account. Ive looked at Mr Ls bank statements and it shows several 
transactions to a gambling company. 
I appreciate Mr L says he wasnt gambling but instead he was investing in financial markets. 
Whilst this may be the case, its wasnt unreasonable for Virgin Money to view these 
transactions as gambling given that payments were being made to a gambling company. 
In any event, the terms and conditions clearly specify that Mr L can only use the overdraft 
facility for general business purposes. This means Mr L cant use the borrowing for 
investment purposes.
Virgin Money were within their rights to cancel the overdraft facility without the 30 days 
notice, given that transactions of this nature  whether they were gambling or investment, 
would likely negatively impact their ability to collect the outstanding amount. 
Overall, Im satisfied Virgin Money havent treated Mr L unfairly when they cancelled his 
overdraft facility without the 30 days notice. It follows that Virgin Money arent responsible 
for the financial loss Mr L says hes incurred as a result.
Virgin Money have already accepted the service they gave Mr L couldve been better due to 
confusion on the potential renewal of the overdraft facility. I appreciate being given 
conflicting information wouldve been confusing and frustrating to Mr L. His expectations and 
hopes were raised too. 
Ive also taken into account that Virgin Money rectified the situation quickly. They contacted 
Mr L on 2 October 2020 to clarify their decision not to renew the overdraft facility  which 
was within a couple of days from the review date. This means the impact on Mr L wasnt 
prolonged. Virgin Money also apologised which I think is enough to put things right here for the level of 
service he received. Im satisfied Virgin Money have resolved this aspect of the complaint 
fairly and I wont be asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman