DRN-3760594
Complaint
Miss T has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
Miss T applied for a loan of £500 with L2G in June 2022. One of our adjudicators reviewed 
what Miss T and L2G had told us. And he thought that L2G hadnt lent irresponsibly. So he 
didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. Miss T disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ts complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss T 
could afford to repay before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Miss T with a loan for £500 in June 2022. It had an APR of 770.0% and was to 
due be repaid in 18 instalments of £102.78, which meant the total amount to be repaid was 
£1850.04. 
L2G says it agreed to Miss Ts application after she provided details of her monthly income 
and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried 
out on Miss T. The information Miss T provided about her income and expenditure showed 
shed be able to comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. But it, in any 
event, adjusted Miss Ts declaration to account for what its verification checks showed and 
this left enough for Miss T to be able to make her payments. L2G says, in these 
circumstances it was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Miss T has said she was in 
financial difficulty and shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss T and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is 
that this was Miss Ts first loan with L2G. The information provided does suggest Miss T was 
asked to provide details of her income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what it 
was told.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing anything too
alarming (there was some adverse information but it was historic and Miss Ts more recent 
credit history was much more stable), Miss Ts lack of any previous lending with L2G, as well 
as the relatively low monthly repayments, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to rely on 
the payments being affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to be. 
I accept that Miss Ts actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information gathered. 
And Im sorry to hear that Miss T might have struggled to make her payments. But its only 
fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender did something 
wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding to lend to  
Miss T - it carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like the information it was 
provided with may not have told the whole story. 
L2G reasonably relied on this information and given the amount of the repayments involved 
and its lack of previous history with Miss T, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to 
provide this loan  especially as I havent, in any event, been provided with anything that 
shows this loan to have been clearly unaffordable for Miss T.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss T. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint, I would remind L2G of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance should Miss T be experiencing difficulty and it choose to collect 
payments from her.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman