DRN-3479161
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the service he received from PrimaryBid Limited. 
What happened
Mr T complained about issues hed had with PrimaryBid Limited over a period of time and 
when trying to make two separate purchases. The details are well known to both parties so I 
wont repeat them again here. As the facts are not in dispute Ill focus on giving the reasons 
for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr T will be disappointed by my decision, but I agree with the conclusions 
reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr T was unhappy that PrimaryBid scaled back a subscription, but Im satisfied that it 
reserved the right to do so in the documentation it provided. I note that there was a 
minimum amount required to invest and Mr T invested the minimum amount so I can 
see why it would have been frustrating for his allocation to be scaled back. 
Understandably he wanted clarification as to why this had happened, and Im 
satisfied that the initial responses werent tailored to his specific query. Indeed, 
initially that he was advised the offer hadnt been scaled back, which was incorrect.  I 
accept that this would have been confusing. Ultimately though PrimaryBid did provide 
a correct explanation, although this took some time. I agree that the service he 
experienced here was less than he could rightly expect.
Mr T also experienced problems trying to make payments through the PrimaryBid 
app. He found this was causing unnecessary stress when trying to purchase shares. 
PrimaryBid acknowledged that some customers had been impacted by a payment 
issue but explained to Mr T what the issue was and that it had been isolated and 
resolved. Notwithstanding this Mr T experienced a similar issue in relation to a 
second transaction. I accept this would have been frustrating given that hed been 
told the issues had been resolved. Nevertheless Im pleased to note that Mr T found 
a way around the issue and was able to proceed with the transaction that day. 
PrimaryBid apologised and Im satisfied that its response to this part of Mr Ts 
complaint was fair.
Mr T also complained about the poor-quality audio reception on a phone call  
PrimaryBid advised that it had not experienced this frequently but would report back 
to its provider. I think that was reasonable and shows that PrimaryBid had taken the 
matter seriously. 
PrimaryBid agreed that 10 days was too long to wait to receive a response to an 
email. It agreed too that overall the service Mr T had received had fallen short of 
what Mr T could expect and offered him £100 in compensation. I note that Mr T has 
asked for £250 and I agree compensation is merited for the poor service he received. 
However, taking everything into account Im satisfied that £100 is fair. 
My final decision
PrimaryBid Limited has already made an offer to pay £100 to settle the complaint and I find 
that the offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that PrimaryBid Limited should pay Mr T £100 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2022.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman