DRN-2430666
The complaint
Mr C complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans gave him 
loans that were unaffordable and didnt properly check whether Mr C could pay them back.
What happened
Satsuma gave Mr C six loans between March 2015 and December 2019. Loans 1-3 were 
taken in quick succession. There was a gap of just over a year after Mr C repaid loan 3 
before Mr C took out loan 4. There was a further significant gap of just under two years 
between Mr C repaying loan 5 and taking out loan 6. A summary of Mr Cs borrowing is 
below.
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalmentsLoan 
AmountMaximum 
Combined 
Repayment
113/03/2015 17/06/2015 13 weeks £1,000.00 £538.45
218/06/2015 23/12/2015 26 weeks £1,000.00 £326.90
322/12/2015 17/08/2016 34 weeks £1,500.00 £438.95
405/09/2017 11/12/2017 13 weeks £300.00 £165.10
511/12/2017 23/02/2018 3 months £300.00 £147.60
606/12/2019 Outstanding 52 weeks £400.00 £76.55
 
Mr C says that these loans made his financial position worse. He wants a refund of interest 
and charges. One of our adjudicators assessed Mr Cs complaint. She didnt think that 
Satsuma had lent to Mr C irresponsibly. So, she didnt ask the business to do anything 
further.
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said that the information contained in his 
complaint hadnt been taken into account. As there was no agreement between the parties, 
the complaint was passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the final stage in our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website so I wont repeat 
them in this decision.
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure
Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Office of Fair-Trading Irresponsible Lending guidance defines 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator that Satsuma didnt act unfairly here. Ill explain why.
In relation to loans one to three, given the loan amounts, the level of repayments and what 
was apparent about Mr Cs circumstances at the time, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate for Satsuma to ask Mr C for the amount of information needed to show the 
lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr C provided or the 
information Satsuma shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate 
for it start verifying what Mr C was saying about his finances.
I say this because, for loans 1-3 Mr C told Satsuma that he was earning around £2550 per 
month and his outgoings were between £950 and £1050. The loan repayment amounts 
looked easily affordable on these figures and there was nothing in the credit checks carried 
out by Satsuma that would have suggested that Mr C was struggling with debts. Satsuma 
used much lower figures when calculating the affordability of this loan.I agree that the loans were taken in quick succession and had this pattern continued I would 
have expected Satsuma to have carried out more checks. But after Mr C repaid loan 3 in full 
he didnt ask to borrow again for a year.
At the point of taking out loan 4 Mr C asked for much less than he had borrowed for loan 3 
and so I think it was reasonable for Satsuma to consider that any short-term financial 
difficulties had passed by now and treat this as a new chain of lending. For this loan Mr C 
said he was earning just under £3000 per month and his outgoings were £940 which 
appeared to be affordable. Loan 5 was for the same amount as loan 4 and was taken out on 
the same day as loan 4 was repaid but it was repaid in full and on time in February 2018. Mr 
C didnt ask to borrow again until December 2019. 
So, looking at the overall pattern of Mr Cs lending history with Satsuma. I dont think that it 
indicates that Satsuma should reasonably have seen that the lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. Mr C was using the credit on a short-term basis and was reducing the 
amounts he borrowed.
I dont doubt that Mr C was borrowing elsewhere and had become reliant on short term 
credit, but this wasnt evident on the credit checks carried out by Satsuma. The information 
available to lenders is often not as comprehensive as the information a borrower has on a 
credit report and not as up to date.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman