DRN-3049740
The complaint
Mrs H has complained on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr H. She says Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage in 1987, and took out a PPI policy to cover it likely around 
the same time  though the exact date is unclear. Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr H, in case he was off 
work sick or lost his job.
I sent Mrs H and Halifax a provisional decision on 17 August 2021, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I have not found this particular policy to have been mis-sold 
 Ill explain why.
This sale was around three decades ago or longer, and the accounts involved have long 
since closed. So its completely understandable that neither side still have the original 
documents from the sale. Indeed, under data protection rules Halifax was required to 
dispose of Mr and Mrs Hs data rather than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully 
about whats most likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr or Mrs H into having 
PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with its sales process from the time. And this particular sale was far too long 
ago for me to reasonably require Halifax to be able to produce documents from the time to 
defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr or 
Mrs H. I think its more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales process, where it 
offered a choice and they chose PPI at the time  though I can understand if Mrs H no 
longer recalls this after so many years.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI for Mr H, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it  so to be as fair to Mrs H and the late Mr H as 
possible, Ill assess things as if it did. That would mean Halifax had to check the policy was 
right for Mr H  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. 
For example, it looks like Mr H was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Hs work benefits 
and offered him much more comprehensive cover  for example, it wouldve been useful for 
when his sick pay reduced to just a fraction of his normal pay, and wouldve continued 
covering him for up to a further year after his sick pay ran out entirely. I understand Mr H 
may have had other insurance such as life insurance, but that covered very different things 
to the PPI and was not an alternative to PPI, so Im afraid thats not relevant here. I also 
understand Mr and Mrs Hs family may have been happy to help, but there was always the 
chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this mortgage was Mr and Mrs Hs 
responsibility, not anyone elses, so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Halifax had 
recommended they rely on other individuals to pay it. Ultimately, if Mr and Mrs H fell behind 
on their mortgage, they couldve lost their home. So in these circumstances, it looks like the 
PPI could have really been useful in protecting their home.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above, Mr H wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful in case something went 
wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs H could cancel it at 
any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put 
them off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about the rules surrounding commission and profit share on PPI policies. But 
those rules only apply to agreements which started on or after 6 April 2007, or which started 
before then but were still running on 6 April 2008. Here, the agreement in question started in 
1987 and ended in 1997, so the rules around commission and profit share dont apply.
Lastly, I understand that Mrs H is most unhappy with the way Halifax handled her complaint 
about PPI. Im afraid I cannot consider this, as I can only decide complaints about regulated 
activities  such as the selling of insurance. But handling complaints is not a regulated 
activity in and of itself. So while Im sorry to hear about the troubles that Mrs H had with the 
complaints process and about the stress shes suffered, I cant consider those points. 
Instead, Ive focused my decision on the sale of the PPI policy at hand.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
14 September 2021. But neither party sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I have not found this policy to have 
been mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and the 
estate of Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman