DRN-2535445
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Ald Automotive Limited (Ald), trading as Ford Lease.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ald, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs M acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Ald, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. It also says we 
should take into account whether a car has proven to be durable when considering if it was 
of satisfactory quality.
I can see that whilst the dealership were initially unable to identify the intermittent problem 
Mrs M was complaining about, the screen did black out when they were testing the car in 
November 2019. Im persuaded this was most likely the same issue Mrs M had been 
complaining to them about since August 2018.
I dont think a reasonable person would consider a brand-new car had proven to be suitably 
durable if, as is the case here, it developed an intermittent screen black out within the first 
year that meant the mileage, fuel consumption and revs couldnt be viewed. 
The relevant legislation gives the business one chance to rectify the fault but if that repair 
fails then the business should allow the consumer to reject the car. I think Ald had the 
opportunity to rectify the fault when Mrs M first referred it to them in August 2018. I can see 
they attempted several repairs in subsequent months when they replaced the instrument 
cluster and updated some software. But its clear those repair attempts failed so they should 
have allowed Mrs M to reject the car.
Instead Mrs M had to voluntarily terminate the deal early and Ald waived the early 
termination fee that would normally have applied.
So, Ive thought about what they should now do to put things right for Mrs M.
  
Putting things right
Mrs M made an advanced payment of £1,489.38 and as she didnt complete the contract Ald 
should refund the unused portion of that payment. Theyll need to add 8% interest as Mrs M 
has been deprived of that money.
I think its clear Mrs M had intermittent issues with her screen from August 2018 until the car 
was returned. She was able to use the car and benefit from most of its features during this 
time, but Id agree with the investigator that Ald should refund 5% of the finance instalments 
Mrs M paid in respect of the lack of use and loss of enjoyment she experienced from the car. 
They should add 8% interest to this refund too as Mrs M has been deprived of the money.
Its clear Mrs M has been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to return her car to 
the dealership on several occasions for a repair to be attempted and shes had to refer her 
complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those 
circumstances I think Ald should pay her £300 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience shes experienced.
Mrs Ms last payment to Ald was due on 21 May 2020 but hasnt been paid. I therefore agree 
with the investigator that it would be reasonable for Ald to deduct this finance instalment of 
£339.96 from any refund they provide.
They should also remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ms credit file 
relating to this agreement as those reports would not have been necessary had they allowed 
Mrs M to reject the vehicle. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Ald Automotive Limited to:
refund the unused portion of the advanced payment adding 8% simple interest from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund 5% of all finance instalments made from and including August 2018 and add 
8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mrs M £300 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced;
deduct £339.96 from any refund in respect of the missed final instalment;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mrs Ms credit file in relation to 
this agreement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman