DRN-2261964
The complaint
Mr S complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declining his claim under his 
buildings insurance, and for the customer service he experienced. He wants Aviva to pay 
his claim and compensation for his distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr S lhas held buildings insurance with Aviva for some time. 
In November 2019, after a period of sustained poor weather and a night of high winds, Mr S 
noted that some stones from the gable end of his property had become dislodged. He also 
noted that the other gable end of his home was bulging and looked unstable. 
Mr S contacted his Local Authority and fire service who attended his property. They 
considered that the building was not stable and that there was a risk to health. 
Mr S contacted Aviva and asked that someone come out to inspect the damage. He initiated 
a claim on the basis that the damage had been sustained due to bad weather. 
A contractor on behalf of Aviva attended the property 5 days after the damage had initially 
occurred. By that time the wall had deteriorated and a substantial area of stone had come 
away from the internal walls. 
Avivas contractor inspected the property and concluded that the damage to both walls was 
due to wear and tear and gradual deterioration, rather than a one-off event such as a storm. 
Aviva advised Mr S that his policy excluded damage from wear and tear and that he was not 
covered for the loss. Aviva explained that if he wished to challenge this view Mr S would 
need to provide a structural engineers report. 
Mr S obtained a report from a structural engineer who attended his property 8 days after the 
initial damage. 
This report set out that the most probable cause [of the damage] is due to strong wind 
effects perhaps exacerbated by funnelling influence of the next property. 
The report stated:
I am unable to state categorically that the wall has become damaged by wind suction forces 
although such action may have worsened pre-existing movement. I did not see evidence of 
any recent external cracking to this wall nor recent damage internally to the property. 
the damage is not in its entirety the result of gradually operating cause such as lack of 
maintenance or pre-existing defects.
Mr S provided this report to Aviva, and Aviva stood by its decision to decline the claim. 
Mr S submitted a complaint. 
Aviva sent Mr S its final response in January 2020. It maintained the decision to decline the 
claim and explained that there were no storms recorded in Mr Ss local area during the 
period 10 August 2019 up to the date of damage. The response did, however, acknowledge 
that there had been delays in Avivas handling of the claim and that it had fallen short in the 
service provided. Aviva therefore offered Mr S a goodwill gesture of £100. 
Mr S did not accept this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that whilst there were high winds at the time these were not so severe as to be defined 
as a storm. Beyond this, the investigator considered that the damage had likely occurred 
over a long period and was not primarily caused by the weather. He therefore did not 
recommend that the complaint be upheld, although he acknowledged that there were service 
failings and delays which had caused Mr S inconvenience. 
Mr S did not accept this view and has provided a further report from the structural engineer. 
This set out that he considered the primary reason for the collapse to be the high winds. He 
explained that typically a gable apex relied on interconnection to the inner wall and where 
this is interrupted, such as in rubble walling, then the wall can become susceptible to wind 
suction effects.
The structural engineer also commented on the local weather at the time of the damage and 
that events near to Mr Ss home had been cancelled due to high winds.
The investigator prepared a second view, following this report. He acknowledged that the 
winds were likely a factor in the damage, but maintained his view that Avivas decision that 
the damage was primarily due to deterioration over time was not an unreasonable decision. 
Mr S did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I must set out my sympathy for Mr S. It must have been very distressing to discover 
the damage to his home, and to then witness it deteriorating over the following days. To then 
learn that his insurance company declined his claim would have been extremely upsetting. 
I do, however, have to look at the way Aviva has handled the claim. I am not making a 
decision on the precise cause of the damage but instead considering whether Aviva has 
acted reasonably when making its decision. 
I have considered the reports into the damage and have followed our services usual 
approach to claims of storm damage. This is to consider:
Is there evidence of storm conditions on or around the date of the damage?
Is the damage consistent with damage a storm typically causes? And
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage
In respect of the first point, Aviva submitted that there was no evidence of storms at the 
nearest weather centre to Mr S between August 2019 and the date of the damage. Mr S, on the other hand, has produced evidence that there were severe weather warnings in 
place at the relevant time and the structural engineer has described how the topography of 
the area where Mr S lives may have meant that non gale-force winds could become 
amplified at Mr Ss home. 
On the basis of this evidence, I agree with my colleagues view that the conditions at Mr Ss 
home on the relevant night could reasonably be described as a storm. 
On the second question, Aviva considers that the damage at Mr Ss home is consistent with 
heat damage from the solid fuel burner and erosion / weather over a long period of time. 
Their contractor notes that the left-hand side of the property is being similarly affected and is 
bellowed out. Their contractor also noted that the second skin has no ties, due to its age. 
The report commissioned by Mr S also gives a view on this  indicating that under high wind 
velocities, suction forces on a high wall can be sufficient to cause localised displacement 
where the wall is less restrained.. and typically a gable apex in old construction is not 
restrained to the roof along the verge and generally relies on interconnection to its inner leaf 
for stability. Where this is interrupted, as is typical in rubble walling, then the wall can 
become more susceptible. 
The initial report by Mr Ss structural engineer explained that the outer leaf would not 
appear to be tied to the inner leaf nor bonded into the chimney feathers...  and I am unable 
to state categorically that this wall has become damaged by wind suction forces although 
such action may have worsened pre-existing movement.
On the basis of this evidence I consider that the damage to Mr Ss property requires an 
existing weakness  here either heat and erosion damage or the lack of interconnection to 
the inner leaf  and that this pre-existing weakness can be exacerbated by high winds. 
Looking then to the third question, I consider that the evidence in the structural engineers 
reports demonstrate that the wind was likely a factor in the damage, but that it highlighted 
and exacerbated existing weakness.
Aviva considered that the primary cause of the damage was erosion and heat damage, and 
from what I have seen I do not consider that to be an unreasonable decision. 
Consequently, I do not think that Aviva has acted unfairly in declining the claim. 
Another element to the complaint was that Aviva delayed in attending and provided a poor 
service to Mr S when handling his claim. My colleague set out his view that there were 
failings in that customer service and that he considered that Aviva was correct to offer 
compensation for these. 
I agree with this view and think that Avivas offer of compensation is in line with awards we 
would make in similar circumstances. I understand that this compensation will not fully reflect 
Mr Ss distress and inconvenience, but I consider that the vast majority of his upset will have 
been caused by the decision to decline the claim, rather than the service failings. 
I appreciate that this decision will be disappointing to Mr S, but I hope it clearly explains why 
I have reached it. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint and do not ask Aviva 
Insurance Limited to do anything further.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman