DRN-1999760
 
The complaint
Mrs N is unhappy that Experian Limited reported her husbands personal information on her 
credit report.
What happened
Mrs N and her husband applied to remortgage their property but after several applications 
were declined, Mrs N looked at her Experian credit report to see if she could identify the 
reason for this. Mrs N felt that the information on her credit file was incorrect and that there 
were debts showing which werent hers. So, she complained to Experian and asked them to 
correct it. 
Experian upheld Mrs Ns complaint in part. They explained that in 2017 their system had 
been updated and experienced some issues, and because Mrs Ns husbands surname, 
address and date of birth were the same as her own, his information was being incorrectly 
reported on her credit file. They apologised for the error and said that Mrs Ns credit file had 
now been corrected. Experian also paid Mrs N £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused and said if shed suffered any financial loss from this issue, to provide 
them with evidence of this and theyd be happy to consider this further. 
Mrs N didnt agree. She felt that her credit file not showing correctly had prevented her being 
able to borrow money, and that the compensation Experian had offered her wasnt enough. 
So, she asked this service to look into her complaint. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that Experian had now 
removed the incorrect information from Mrs Ns credit file and paid her £150 in compensation 
for the distress this had caused. She also said she hadnt seen any evidence which showed 
that the mortgage applications had been declined solely because Mrs Ns credit file was 
incorrect. So, she wasnt going to ask Experian to take any further action.
 
Mrs N didnt agree. She felt it was possible the error had happened before Experians 
systems were updated in 2017. She also felt that number, and extent of the errors would 
have had a significant detrimental effect on her mortgage applications. And that the £150 
compensation wasnt enough. So, she asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
 
Our investigator asked Mrs N if she had made any further borrowing application since her 
credit file had been updated. And in early March 2020, Mrs N provided a copy of her updated 
credit report showing a significant increase in her credit score which she felt further 
supported her argument that Experians error had a significant impact on her.
 
Our investigator asked Experian to explain why there had been such an increase in the 
score. Experian then explained that there had been a further system error and that this 
updated score was also incorrect and was higher than it should have been. They then 
confirmed in April 2020 that Mrs Ns credit file had been corrected and her score was now 
correct.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 June 2020. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to partially 
uphold it. Ill explain why.
 
Impact from the error
 
I recognise that Mrs N feels that because her husbands data was showing on her file, it 
means all their joint borrowing was effectively being doubled on her credit report. And that 
she couldnt borrow money when she needed it as her remortgage applications were being 
declined because of Experians error, but Im not persuaded thats the case. 
Looking at Mrs Ns credit file, Ive seen that there is evidence of a defaulted account which is 
just in her name. I acknowledge Mrs Ns comment that she doesnt feel this would have 
affected her credit file significantly, but when different lenders look at the information on a 
credit file, they dont all use it in the same way and some lenders place more weight on 
defaulted accounts than others. So, I think its possible Mrs Ns own credit file would have 
had an impact on a lending decision.
 
Mrs N told us that the remortgage applications shed made were in joint names with her 
husband. This means that any potential lender would consider both parties credit file and 
score as part of the applications. Which means that any application they made together 
wouldve taken Mr Ns credit history into consideration regardless of whether it was showing 
up on Mrs Ns credit file or his own. So, I cant reasonably say that it was solely Experians 
error that prevented the applications being approved. 
Ive seen that Experian asked Mrs N to obtain evidence from the lenders she applied to that 
it was because of this error that her applications were declined, and they would consider this 
information. However, I cant see that Mrs N has done this or provided any submissions from 
potential lenders for us to consider. And looking at the information held on the credit file, it 
doesnt appear that the declined applications were because of the duplicated information, 
but the actual credit information held for Mrs N and her husband. So, I cant fairly ask 
Experian to compensate her for the decisions taken by potential lenders.
 
When the error took place
 
Experian have told us that they feel the error on Mrs Ns account was likely to have taken 
place in June 2017 when they upgraded their systems. I acknowledge that Mrs N doesnt 
agree with Experians explanation about how and when the error on her credit file occurred, 
and that she feels the error could have occurred before June 2017. However, its not 
possible to obtain a credit report before that time as the information is only available for a 
twelve-month period and Mrs N hasnt provided any evidence which shows she was 
impacted before this date. And I think Experians explanation is plausible given that Ive seen 
Mrs N had previously applied for credit successfully at various points between late June 
2002, and early 2008 and didnt identify that there was an issue with her credit file until 
September 2019.
 
Mrs N also told us that she feels her credit file would have been negatively impacted when 
credit searches were carried out for her husband because of the linked credit files. Experian 
have told us that theyre unable to check for all searches in 2017 as they only hold records 
for twelve months and Mrs N hadnt requested a report at that time. However, they have said 
that theyve checked on Mrs Ns credit file from 2018, which shows there were no searches 
for her husband which affected her credit file, only searches which were in Mrs Ns own 
name. Although I dont have a full report from the time Experian say their update took place, 
looking at the credit file Mrs N provided dated April 2018, Ive seen evidence that there were 
two searches carried out against Mr N for insurance quotes which appeared on Mrs Ns credit file in August and December 2017. However, I cant see that these had a negative 
impact on her. 
Correcting Mrs Ns credit file
 
In March 2020, Mrs N sent through an updated copy of her credit file which showed an 
increased score to around 900 from just under 500 which it was recorded as in October 
2019. She felt this proved that there had been a significant impact to her credit file by 
Experians error, which would have affected her lending applications. However, Experian 
said that the credit file had been updated in October 2019, which didnt explain the 
significant change in score from then until April 2020.
 
Experian have since confirmed that they experienced a further technical issue with Mrs Ns 
credit file in March 2020 which caused the increase, but this has now been corrected. Ive 
seen a copy of Mrs Ns updated credit file which shows her credit score has now been 
updated to around 600 and Im satisfied that the information being reported is now correct. 
I recognise that this has been a frustrating time for Mrs N and that its taken longer to resolve 
than she would have liked. Its not for me to punish a business for making a mistake, 
however I understand that Mrs N has been caused inconvenience from the time and effort it 
took to get the first mistake rectified, only for Experian to make another big mistake. Ive 
noted in particular that Mrs N said she was still looking to remortgage, but she felt she 
couldnt until the error on her credit file was corrected, and I understand given the 
circumstances why Mrs N has lost trust in Experian.
 
Ive seen that Experian said sorry and paid Mrs N £150 compensation for the first error. But 
considering the circumstances of the case, I dont think this is enough and I think they should 
pay Mrs N a further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I invited Mrs N and Experian to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. Experian accepted my provisional decision. But 
Mrs N didnt respond to say whether she accepted my provisional decision. She also hasnt 
told me she has anything more to add.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as Experian responded to say they accepted my decision, but Mrs N 
didnt respond to say she accepted or rejected my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. 
So this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
As I've reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision, Experian Limited 
must do the following: 
Pay Mrs N a further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused in 
addition to the £150 theyve already paid.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Experian Limited must follow the 
instructions I've set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman