DRN-1728098
The complaint
Mr B wants all the payments he made under a hire agreement with Lex Autolease Ltd to be 
refunded following a rejection of the car.
What happened
Mr B signed a hire agreement for a new car on 4 January 2019. The agreement was due to 
run for 4 years. The car was delivered to Mr B on 5 March 2019. Mr B raised faults with the 
supplying dealership relating to a crackling noise through the speakers and two attempts 
were made at a repair. Mr B also raised a number of other issues with the car during the 
period of his ownership and asked to reject the car.
Lex Autolease agreed to allow the rejection and the car was collected on 14 November 
2019. At the point of collection, the car had travelled 11,209 miles and Mr B had use of the 
car for around 8 months. Lex Autolease agreed to refund Mr B one months rental and 
offered him £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr B didnt agree with this and said that he should have all the repayments refunded as he 
was within the period of his short term right to reject. He said that the only reason the car 
took so long to be returned was because Lex Autolease kept insisting that he complained to 
the dealership and allow it to fix the faults with the car.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think Lex Autolease should do anything 
more. He said Mr B wasnt within the period of his short term right to reject and it was 
reasonable for Lex Autolease to keep the monthly instalments to reflect Mr Bs fair usage of 
the car.
Mr B didnt agree and said that Lex Autolease were aware of the faults with the car from the 
outset and he was still within his short term right to reject. Mr B said it was because of delay 
by the dealership and Lex Autolease that he was forced to use the car and he shouldnt be 
left out of pocket.
Our investigator didnt change his view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Lex Autolease is also the supplier of the 
goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Mr B explains that he wanted to reject the car pursuant to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA). The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is of particular relevance to this complaint. It 
says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the 
goods is satisfactory. The CRA says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems 
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider 
might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The CRA says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other 
things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, 
safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
I dont apply the law directly in the same way that a court would approach matters, but I do 
take it into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable. The CRA provides 30 days to 
reject the car if it is not of satisfactory quality. After 30 days the business is allowed an 
opportunity to repair the car.
What has happened here is that Mr B has kept the car beyond the 30 days and has allowed 
the supplying dealership several opportunities to fix the faults. He says he shouldnt be out of 
pocket because of this and he was clear that he wanted to reject the car within the 30 days 
(allowing for waiting periods).
I can understand why Mr B kept the car for as long as he did, and I can see from the 
correspondence that he genuinely wanted to keep the car and allow the dealership a chance 
to fix the faults. I can also see that the car began presenting with additional faults and 
eventually Mr B decided that he no longer wanted to keep the car.
I can also appreciate why Mr B used the car. He was paying significant monthly instalments 
and needed to use the car for business. 
Because of the way matters unfolded and the attempts made to fix the car Mr B didnt return 
it until November 2019. I accept that it wasnt until that point that Lex Autolease agreed to 
the rejection request. But I dont think it was clear that Mr B wanted to reject the car until 
after the 30 days had passed. I think that Mr B wanted to keep the car and have the faults 
fixed rather than reject the car. I say this because he continued to use the car instead of 
insisting that he wanted to reject the car. Looking at the correspondence I think Mr B made it 
clear in August 2019 that he was now looking to reject the car.
As I said, I understand why Mr B continued to use the car, but I dont think it is fair that he 
should have a refund of all the monthly rentals. Mr B was able to travel 11,000 miles in eight 
months and his contract was for 12,500 miles per year, so I think he was able to have fair 
use out of the car. I think the offer to refund 1 months rental is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and reflects the inconvenience and the time that the car was in for repairs.
I think the offer of £150 to reflect the trouble and upset caused is also fair and reasonable. 
This service doesnt punish businesses for mistakes and the awards we make are modest. I 
do understand why Mr B says he should have all money refunded under the agreement, but 
I dont think this is a fair outcome for the reasons I have explained.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
12 November 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman