DRN-4316645
The complaint
Mr N complains that Wakam unfairly declined a claim he made under his home insurance 
policy. 
Wakam is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Wakam has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, 
in my decision, any reference to Wakam includes the actions of the agents. 
What happened
In early 2023, Mr N made a claim under his home insurance policy with Wakam after 
discovering tiles had fallen off his roof. Mr N says Wakam advised him to call a roofer to 
investigate the cause of damage. The roofer attended, fixed the damage and invoiced Mr N 
£800 for repairs.
Mr N submitted the roofers report to Wakam for its consideration, but it declined his claim. It 
said the wind speeds around the time of the loss werent high enough to meet the policys 
definition of a storm. Mr N raised a complaint, but Wakam maintained its position.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ns complaint should be upheld. He thought it was fair for 
Wakam to decline Mr Ns claim because storm conditions didnt appear to have been met.
Mr N disagreed with our investigators outcome. He provided some photographs of his roof 
with the missing tiles. He said the precise date of the tiles falling from the roof was not 
known. The location the slates had landed, in combination with their weight, indicated that 
they couldnt possibly have fallen off due to bad construction or other factors. The slates that 
were blown were at the end of the roof which was typically affected by the winds as they 
were exposed at one side. 
Mr N said a simple weather report didnt paint the whole picture. He thought a site visit or 
more detailed investigation would show that wind was the reason for the damage. He said 
Wakam had refused a site visit and had asked for a roofers report which it had later ignored.
He also commented that his house was only built in 2018 and well-maintained. Mr N said he 
believed the likelihood of the damage being due to the roof being badly maintained or 
because of initial construction faults were low.
As Mr N disagrees with our investigators outcome, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly and it 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that an insured event most 
likely caused the damage. Mr Ns policy provides cover for loss or damage caused by an 
event listed in it. For Mr Ns loss to be covered, it would need to fall under one of those 
events. If it doesnt  then the claim isnt covered and wont be settled. So, Ive needed to 
consider whether Mr N has shown, on the balance of probabilities, that an event listed in the 
policy caused the damage. 
Mr N says the damage to his roof was caused by high winds. However, Wakam says the 
damage isnt covered by the storm peril in the policy. 
The policys terms and conditions define storm as:
A period of violent weather defined as:
a) a gale of Force 10 or above (as defined under the internationally recognised Beaufort 
Scale) reaching wind speeds of at least 55 mph; or
b) torrential rain that falls at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; or
c) snow that falls to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours; or
d)hail so severe that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
Wakam says the highest wind speed recorded seven days prior to the date of loss was 42 
mph. Mr N says he isnt sure of the date of loss because the slates landed on the side of the 
building and werent noticeable. So, Ive checked the weather reports in Mr Ns area for over 
a month prior to the recorded date of loss and the highest recorded windspeed was 43 mph. 
Mr N says his house is located at the top of a hill and often receives stronger wind than the 
average in his area. However, I havent seen evidence to suggest there were localised storm 
conditions in the area of Mr Ns property around the time of his claim.
Mr N has provided a copy of the invoice from his roofer which says they had to replace 
missing slates that had been blown off due to high winds, leaving the felt exposed on the 
roof. It says they also secured six additional tiles that had become slightly loose and would 
have resulted in the same problem if not fixed.
I think its likely that the tiles came off during a period of high wind. However, Ive not seen 
evidence to persuade me that the winds were high enough to meet the policys definition of a 
storm. 
I understand Mr N is unhappy that Wakam wouldnt agree to a site visit. And I appreciate he 
feels the cause of damage is unlikely to be due to a lack of maintenance or faulty 
construction. But as Ive explained, the onus is on Mr N to show that the damage was 
caused by an insured event. And Im not persuaded that he has.
I havent seen sufficient evidence to conclude that there was a storm when Mr Ns roof was 
damaged. Nor have I seen any evidence to suggest the damage was caused by any other 
event listed as being covered by the policy.
 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr N, but I dont think hes shown that the 
damage to his roof was caused by an event that was covered by the terms of his insurance 
policy. So, I think it was fair and reasonable for Wakam to have declined his claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman