DRN-4309252
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that it was mis-sold a fixed rate commercial 
loan by Lloyds Bank PLC. T also complains that the security which the bank required caused 
problems for the company.
What happened
In April 2014, T took out two loans from Lloyds  a 20-year loan for £385,700 with the 
interest rate fixed for the first ten years, and a 15-year loan for £172,500 with a variable rate.
In November 2018, when T repaid the fixed-rate loan in full, the company was required to 
pay a break cost of over £27,000 for ending the fixed rate contract early.
T complained to the bank, saying that its director was over 55 when the loan was sold, so it 
was unreasonable for Lloyds to provide a long loan term without an option to break without 
penalty. Moreover, T said the bank didnt mention the break costs within the facility term 
letters and the director wasnt advised about the break costs in any of the meetings with 
Lloyds staff.
T also complained that the fixed-rate loan was secured over two properties, which prevented 
the company from releasing equity, remortgaging, or selling the properties without 
redeeming both of its loans.
Lloyds offered to pay compensation to take into account that the break cost actually incurred 
was higher than the example break cost shown at the point of sale. In August 2021, Lloyds 
calculated this offer to be £6,816.52 plus compensatory interest.
T wasnt happy with Lloyds offer and referred its complaint to us. Having looked at the 
evidence, our investigator recommended that Lloyds should put T in the position it would 
have been if it had chosen a 20-year loan with the interest rate fixed for seven years, rather 
than ten. He gave these reasons, in summary:
Ts fixed rate loan wasnt a regulated mortgage contract, nor was it any other kind of 
regulated product. It was a commercial loan, so the rules for regulated mortgage 
contracts dont apply here. The investigator couldnt see any evidence that Lloyds 
recommended or required T to take a fixed-rate loan.
The loan agreement clearly stated there would be 120 monthly instalments during the 
fixed rate period. The investigator therefore believed Lloyds gave Ts director 
sufficient information to calculate at which age he would be when the fixed rate 
period would end.
In 2014 Ts director signed a loan agreement and a product profile, both of which 
explained that early termination of the fixed rate would result in a break cost. 
Although the investigator thought Lloyds clearly said there would be a break cost if 
the fixed rate were repaid early, he noted that the examples provided by the bank 
were based on a £100,000 loan fixed for five years, whereas Ts actual loan was for 
£385,700 fixed for ten years. This led to a substantial difference between the highest 
example break cost of £6,000 and the actual £27,086 break cost paid by T. So the 
investigator didnt think Lloyds gave clear information about the potential size of the 
break cost.
The investigator considered what T would have done if sufficient information had 
been provided at the time. He thought fixing the interest rate would have seemed 
attractive, as this would have given security from the risk of rates increasing in the 
future. He hadnt seen evidence to show that T intended to pay off the borrowing 
early, so he didnt think the risk of early exit costs would have outweighed the 
advantages of known, stable repayments for a substantial part of the loan term. 
Having said that, the investigator wasnt convinced that T would have fixed for ten 
years. Given Ts intention to redevelop properties, its likely that T would have 
regarded ten years as too long to be locked in by the potential break costs. Also 
taking into account that Ts director said his planned retirement age was 65, the 
investigator thought it likely that T would have chosen to fix for seven years.
Lloyds sent a letter in November 2013, which set out the security requirements for 
the lending proposal, naming the two properties. The investigator thought Lloyds had 
clearly said which properties were required to be used as security.
Ts representative argued that the bank should reimburse the company for the 
arrangement fee, introduction fee and other costs that T incurred in moving to a new 
lender in 2018. The investigator said that it had been Ts decision to move, and it 
hadnt been required by Lloyds. There are typically such costs when taking out new 
lending with a bank, and the investigator didnt think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to 
pay these.
Ts representative had also asked for the bank to reimburse the company for its legal 
costs for bringing the complaint. The investigator said the ombudsman service 
doesnt require a complainant to appoint a solicitor to bring a complaint, and he 
therefore didnt think it would be fair to ask Lloyds to pay the legal fees.
Lloyds said that while it didnt agree with the investigators assessment, it was prepared to 
make an offer in line with investigators recommendations  in which the compensation 
would be higher than in the banks original offer  in order to settle the complaint.
T didnt agree with the investigators recommendations. Its representative said that T should 
be put in the position it would have been in if it hadnt taken a fixed rate of any duration. The 
representative made these points, in summary:
The key need for T was flexibility over when it could repay, and this would always 
have outweighed the security of fixed repayment amounts over the longer period. 
Had T been offered the choice of appropriate products, specifically variable rate 
products across all of its borrowing, it would have chosen them as opposed to fixed 
rate lending.
T was sold a fixed rate product alongside a variable rate product. This makes no 
sense and was the worst of all situations, keeping the customer tied in with early 
repayment charges but with uncertainty over the repayment amounts linked to rate 
changes. The bank should have provided proper advice.There would have been no seven-year fixed rate loans on offer by the bank at the 
time, so T could not have had such a product.
Given the lengthy and detailed correspondence between T and the ombudsman, 
especially over jurisdiction, its unfair to say that lay customers could navigate the 
situation without legal advisers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons. 
The fixed rate loan
Fixed rate commercial loans arent regulated products, and they arent subject to advice and 
suitability rules. Ive seen no evidence that Lloyds provided advice or recommendations at 
the time of the loan sale. The loan agreement contained a statement by which the customer 
acknowledged that he hadnt received or relied on any advice from the bank. This statement 
was just above the customer signature. Im therefore satisfied that the sale of the loan wasnt 
subject to the rules for regulated advice. That means the bank wasnt required to provide 
advice, and nor was it required to ensure that the product sold was suitable for the 
customers needs  or even to make an assessment of those needs. It was up to the 
company to decide whether the fixed rate loan offered by the bank met its requirements and 
fitted with its business model.
Having said that, I would expect the bank to have provided the company with appropriate 
information to make an informed decision. In particular, I would expect the bank to alert the 
company to the risk of incurring break costs, and of the potential scale of those costs. 
Having looked at the sales information and the loan agreement, I find that Lloyds did give T 
sufficient information for the company to understand the basic operation of fixed rate lending 
as opposed to variable rate lending, including clear warnings about the possibility of break 
costs. But I agree with the investigator that Lloyds didnt give enough information about the 
potential scale of the break costs, because the range of the examples it gave was too 
narrow.
Im satisfied that T chose a fixed rate knowing that the interest payments were more 
expensive than for a variable rate loan at the time, and knowing that exiting the fixed rate 
early could result in a break cost. T therefore chose the fixed rate product despite having to 
pay a premium at least in the short term, and despite some risk of a potential future break 
cost. Im therefore satisfied that T chose the fixed rate because it was prepared to accept 
these actual and potential costs in return for its benefits  which were the predictability and 
stability of repayment outgoings over the fixed rate period. I therefore agree with the 
investigator that the evidence suggests that T valued the benefit of a fixed rate loan in giving 
security against the risk of future interest rate rises.
T wasnt fully informed about the potential scale of break costs. So I must consider what T 
would have done if the bank had given that information. 
I think the company would have seen value in fixing its rate for as long as reasonably 
possible, but would have weighed that against the risk of incurring costs from early exit. Its 
not possible to determine exactly what would have happened if T had been fully informed, so 
I need to decide what I think was most likely. I havent seen any evidence from the time of the lending that T expressed any intention to 
repay early, so I think its unlikely that T saw flexibility as its key need at the time, and I 
therefore believe T would have fixed for more than five years. In coming to that view, Ive 
taken into account the general tendency of break costs to diminish towards the end of the 
fixed rate period. However, I think T would have seen ten years as too long, especially as its 
director was intending to retire before then. I think its reasonable to conclude that seven 
years would be the limit of Ts risk appetite. A fixed rate of that length would have come to 
an end more than a year before the director was 65, giving time for the company to plan and 
act before his retirement.
Ts representative says that a seven-year fix wouldnt have been available, and that Lloyds 
would only have offered standard fixed terms of three, five and ten years. But my 
understanding is that it wasnt uncommon for banks to arrange fixed rate loans of different 
durations, depending on customer requirements. I believe that in 2014, T could have 
negotiated a fixed rate for seven years.
I dont agree with Ts representative that the bank should have advised T against a mix of 
fixed and variable rates. Its not unusual for business borrowers to choose a combination like 
this, in order to give some control over future outgoings while preserving a degree of 
flexibility for early repayments. But in any event, these were unregulated loans and Lloyds 
was under no obligation to make recommendations or advise T about the suitability of 
products. 
For the reasons given above, I find that a fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint 
would be for Lloyds to put T in the position it would have been in had the company had fixed 
its interest rate for seven years rather than ten years.
Security
Im satisfied that Lloyds made its security requirements clear in advance of the 2014 lending. 
T accepted the loans with the security requirements. I dont think the bank acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here.
Costs of moving to another lender
T made a choice to refinance with another lender, and it wasnt required to do so by Lloyds. I 
agree with the investigator that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to require Lloyds to pay for 
the routine fees and costs involved in obtaining new finance.
Legal fees for bringing the complaint
T has been represented by a solicitor, but that was the companys choice. Its not necessary 
to be represented in order to bring a complaint to the ombudsman, and its very unusual for 
complainants to be awarded their representatives fees. I can see there were exchanges 
about Ts eligibility as a complainant, and the company was asked to provide financial and 
staffing information. Ive no doubt that having that correspondence handled by a solicitor 
made things easier for Ts director, but I dont think professional representation was 
essential. So I dont think it would be reasonable to require the bank to reimburse Ts legal 
costs.My final decision
My final decision is that I require Lloyds Bank PLC to put T in the position it would have been 
in had it chosen a 20-year loan with the interest rate fixed for seven years, rather than the 
original 20-year loan with the interest rate fixed for ten years.
The award should reflect the following considerations:
The replacement loan should run from the original start date.
The bank should reimburse the difference between the break costs paid on the 
original loan and the break costs due on the replacement loan.
The bank should reimburse the difference between the payments made on the 
original loan and those due on the replacement loan.
The bank should add compensatory interest at 8% simple per annum to the 
reimbursed sums above, from the date the costs arose to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman