DRN-1691873
The complaint
Mrs G says Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance policy.
What happened
In September 1999 Mrs G applied for a credit card, and at the same time a PPI policy was 
added to her account. Mrs G thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
An adjudicator looked at the complaint and didn't think it should be upheld. Mrs G didn't 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs G's case.
I've decided the policy wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Mrs G knew she had a choice about buying the policy. Mrs G 
says she would have told whoever she spoke to that she didn't need the insurance. She 
says she was given the insurance in direct conflict with her instructions that she did not 
need it. So I've thought about this alongside the other information I've seen about the sale.
Tesco has sent me a copy of the credit card application form, which Mrs G completed. 
Based on what I've seen, Mrs G applied for the card and PPI by post. There was a section 
on the application form with the heading "Cardholder Payment Protection". Beneath this is 
the statement
"Cardholder Payment Protection is designed to protect your payments in the event of 
death, accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment (including redundancy). We 
strongly recommend you take out this cover. For cover just tick this box."
There is a tick next to this statement, and I see Mrs G has ticked other parts of the form to 
select various options relating to her application.
For this reason, though Mrs G says she would have turned down the PPI, I think it's more 
likely that she wanted the PPI - and agreed to buy it.
Both Tesco and Mrs G say it didn't advise her to buy the policy. This means Tesco didn't 
need to check the policy was right for Mrs G. But Tesco did need to give Mrs G the 
information she'd need to work out for herself if she wanted it. 
I accept it's possible the information Tesco gave Mrs G about the policy wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But Mrs G applied for the policy - so it looks as though she wanted this type of cover. Based on what she's told us about her circumstances at the time, it doesn't 
look as though she was affected by any of the main things the policy didn't cover. And 
though she got some sick pay from her employer if she was off work sick, it looks as though 
this policy paid out for longer and would also have covered her if she lost her job. I also think 
it would have paid out in addition to any sick pay she got from her employer. So I think the 
policy would have been useful had anything gone wrong. For these reasons, I'm not 
persuaded that better information would have changed Mrs G's decision to buy the product.
This means Tesco doesn't need to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Tesco has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
   Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mrs G, that 
was unfair. 
    To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I've considered everything else Mrs G has said, but this doesn't change my conclusion.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold, so Tesco Personal Finance PLC doesn't have to pay back all 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I don't award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman