DRN-2028256
The complaint
Mr B complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited treated him unfairly when reviewing 
the sale of an annuity.  
What happened
In 2012 Mr B bought an annuity with Standard Life using his personal pension plan. In 
October 2013, Mr B spoke to Standard Life about his options to take benefits from his 
company pension, which it administered. During the call Standard Life told Mr B he didnt 
have to use his pension funds to buy an annuity with Standard Life  as he might get a better 
annuity with another provider. And it told Mr B about certain medical conditions and lifestyle 
issues that might attract a higher annuity rate from other companies. Mr B indicated he 
understood he could shop around and said he didnt have any medical or lifestyle issues that 
Standard Life ought to take account of. 
Following that call, Standard Life sent Mr B various annuity quotes and a retirement guide, 
which included a key facts section. Amongst the information included in the retirement 
guide was a section called If you want to shop around. This mentioned the open market 
option (OMO) which allowed pension plan holders to shop around to see if they could get 
more pension income from another provider. In addition, it mentioned the possibility of 
getting an enhanced annuity if the pension plan holder had certain lifestyle issues that might 
qualify  more detail was set out in a section called If youre not in good health.
Mr B got in touch with Standard Life in November 2013 to accept one of the quotes offered 
and he bought an annuity. During that call, Standard Life again checked that Mr B knew 
about the OMO and it told him that might make him financially better off - he indicated he 
did. Mr B said he hadnt really looked at the other options and said Im quite happy with 
what Im getting. The adviser also asked him if he was aware that certain medical and 
lifestyle conditions could lead to a higher annuity being offered. Mr B said he had a medical 
condition that was being monitored and considered to be under control. The adviser 
explained that other pension companies could take that into account even though Standard 
Life wouldnt. The adviser asked Mr B are you still happy to stay with Standard Life and he 
indicated he was. 
Shortly after Standard Life sent Mr B confirmation of the pension benefits he could expect to 
receive (in line with the lifetime annuity hed opted for).  
In September 2019  following an instruction issued by the industry regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to review the sale of certain annuities, Standard Life looked into 
what happened in Mr Bs case. Having already decided that Mr B hadnt been given all of the 
relevant information before buying the 2012 annuity (for which redress was given) Standard 
Life also reviewed the circumstances leading to the sale of the 2013 annuity. It was satisfied 
it had given Mr B the appropriate information at the time. Standard Life said it wouldnt be 
taking further action and Mr Bs pension income would continue as normal.  
Mr B asked Standard Life to log a complaint because he felt hed been treated unfairly. 
Standard Life responded to Mr Bs complaint in September 2019. It said it had revisited the 
sale of Mr Bs annuity, taking account of the conversations it had with him and the other 
information it provided. And it was satisfied the sale of the annuity was compliant with 
regulatory guidelines. In explaining its decision, it included extracts of transcripts from phone 
conversations with Mr B some years earlier.
Mr B complained to us in October 2019. He said he wasnt happy with the outcome of 
Standard Lifes review. He indicated he didnt believe hed answered the questions in the 
way Standard Life said he had when buying the annuity. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Having done so, he thought Standard Life 
had dealt with Mr B fairly. To support his assessment, the investigator provided a recording 
of a relevant call for Mr B to listen to.
Mr B wasnt happy with the investigators assessment and indicated hed shown bias 
towards Standard Life. He also said the assessment wouldnt stand up in law due to the 
quality of some of the evidence relied on. So, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B said he wants to appeal Standard lifes decision not to offer him redress in relation to 
the sale of his 2013 annuity. My role in relation to a complaint like this is to consider whether 
Standard Life carried out its review fairly and took account of the right information. In doing 
so, Ive also looked at the events leading to the sale of Mr Bs annuity.
Given some of the concerns Mr Bs raised, it might be helpful to say here that, unlike the 
courts, the nature of our process is informal. So, its not for us to test evidence in the same 
way a court might. But, in order to reach my decision, I have considered all of the evidence 
afresh. And, having done that, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Like many other annuity providers, the FCA asked Standard Life to review the sale of certain 
non advised annuities  that is annuities which pension plan holders took out without first 
seeking advice from an independent financial adviser. The aim of the review was to check 
that the pension plan holder had enough information to make an informed decision  
particularly in relation to shopping around to get the highest pension income and also to let 
them know that certain medical and lifestyle conditions might attract a higher annuity. As I 
understand it, Mr Bs company pension wasnt one that fell within the scope of the review. 
However, Standard Life agreed to review it in the same way it had with other types of 
pensions.
I understand Standard Life asked Mr B to complete a questionnaire, which included 
questions about his health and general lifestyle. From his reply to that (and having reviewed 
the events leading to the sale, some of which Ive referred to below) Standard Life was 
satisfied it was compliant with the standards set by the FCA.
When he complained to Standard Life Mr B said he couldnt recall the questions he was 
asked in 2013. Thats understandable given the conversation had taken place around six 
years earlier. But, having since received transcripts and a call recording, Mr B doesnt think it 
was fair for Standard Life to rely on them, as some of his answers - particularly during the 
late October 2013 call - werent entirely clear on the recording. Having considered the evidence myself, I dont agree with Mr B. I say that because even if 
the call in late October 2013 was the only evidence Standard Life had to rely on (it wasnt), 
Im satisfied having listened to it that Standard Life asked Mr B clear questions about what 
he wanted to get from his pension. And it told him about the OMO. It also told him about the 
possibility of receiving a higher annuity if he had certain medical and lifestyle conditions that 
met the criteria for one. I agree that some of Mr Bs answers cant be heard as clearly as 
Standard Lifes questions. But they arent so unclear so as not to understand the gist of 
Mr Bs responses. Nor do they give me any cause to think Mr B didnt understand the 
questions he was asked.  
In any event, Standard Life had other evidence to rely on. Following that call, it sent Mr B a 
retirement pack, which included information about the OMO. The pack also included a 
section called If youre not in good health, which explained that certain conditions and 
lifestyles might qualify for a higher annuity.
In addition, Mr B had another fairly detailed conversation with Standard Life in 
November 2013 before he bought the annuity. Ive also had the benefit of listening to that 
recording and I can hear the adviser asking Mr B similar questions to those asked during the 
call in late October. She also made it clear to Mr B that he could shop around if he wanted 
and that he might be better off by doing that. Mr B mentioned a medical condition that was 
being monitored. The adviser explained that other companies could take that into account, 
but Standard Life wouldnt. Im satisfied from the answers he gave - and the fact Mr B 
indicated he wanted to stay with Standard Life - that he understood the options available to 
him. In fact, towards the end of the call Mr B indicated that the adviser had been really 
helpful  as had the colleague hed spoken to in October. Mr B then said he wanted to go 
ahead with one of the annuity options Standard Life had given him.
For all of the reasons Ive set out, Im satisfied that Standard Life acted appropriately when 
discussing Mr Bs pension options with him and when selling him the annuity. Im also 
satisfied that Standard Life took account of relevant factors when reviewing the sale of the 
annuity and that its decision (not to offer redress) was supported by evidence of what 
happened at the time. Whilst Mr B might not agree with the outcome, Ive seen no evidence 
to suggest Standard Life treated him unfairly. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman