DRN-3115419
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from Santander UK Plc when trying to 
downgrade his current account to a fee free account. 
 
What happened
Mr B holds a bank account with Santander. He pays a monthly fee for the account, and in 
return receives a number of benefits. In July 2021, he contacted Santander to downgrade 
the account to a fee free account. But was told that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, he would 
need to do this online. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B complained. He said his account allows him to transact online, by 
phone, or in a branch. He said he doesnt use online banking as he doesnt think its secure. 
So, in Santander refusing to carry out his request by phone or in branch, he says theyre 
breaching the terms of the account. 
Santander apologised. But said that due to the Covid-19 pandemic, their process was not to 
amend or open any accounts over the phone other than for vulnerable customers. They 
were also limiting branch access. They said they did agree to call-back Mr B a few days later 
to process the downgrade as an exception, but Mr B had already closed his account by then. 
They maintain that their approach was reasonable in the circumstances. Unhappy with this 
response, Mr B brought his complaint to our service.
Since the complaints been with us Santander learned Mr B had been trying to downgrade 
the account since April 2021, so they agreed to refund him £20 in account fees. 
An investigator considered the complaint and accepted that the terms and conditions of the 
account allowed Mr B to transact by various methods. But he didnt think it unreasonable for 
Santander to restrict those methods, given the unprecedented circumstances. And he 
thought their offer to refund £20 to cover the account fees since April was fair.
In response, Mr B said he didnt have online access and wouldnt accept anything less than 
£50 and a written apology. So Santander agreed to compensate him £50 to resolve matters. 
But Mr B said he wanted £50 in addition to the £20 already offered, and a written apology. 
And, as Santander hadnt offered this, he now thinks they should pay £150. The investigator 
didnt think this was reasonable however, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 When Mr B requested to downgrade his account, it was relatively early on in the Covid-19 
pandemic. At this time, many businesses were trying to adapt their working practices  
working out ways to provide essential services while keeping staff and customers safe. This 
was also true for banks. Santanders told us they were limiting certain transactions, including 
the opening or amending of existing accounts over the phone. And they were also limiting 
access to branch facilities during this time, in order to protect staff and customers. 
So, when Mr B called in July 2021 looking to downgrade his account (from one with a small 
monthly fee, to one without), I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander not to deem this 
an essential transaction and to instruct Mr B to carry out his request online instead.
Mr B says he doesnt bank online due to previous negative experiences, which I can 
appreciate. And I accept Mr B would usually carry out such requests over the phone or in 
branch. But as Ive set out, these were unprecedented times. And while I appreciate Mr B 
chooses not to use online banking, I think he couldve set this up in order to downgrade his 
account if he felt the request was urgent. 
Mr B has informed Santander that hed been attempting to downgrade the account since 
April 2020, up until he closed it in July 2020. And feels that the due to his repeated attempts 
to do this, and the fact Santander had restricted the ways in which he could transact, he 
should receive £150 compensation and a written apology. 
But Santander did agree to call Mr B back, and it was Mr B who had already closed the 
account. They also agreed to cover the account costs since April of £20, and agreed to pay 
Mr B a further £30 on top of this taking that compensation to £50. And as Ive set out above; 
I dont think Mr Bs request was essential; nor do I think Santanders suggestion for him to 
carry out this request online unreasonable. So, on balance and, in the circumstances, I think 
the £50 they have offered is more than fair and Im not asking them to do anything more. 
Ive thought about whether there should be an interest award on the £20 element of the 
compensation that was to cover the account fees. But as I think the £50 offered is more than 
reasonable, I dont think any additional interest is due in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Santander UK Plc has already made an offer to pay Mr B £50 compensation to settle the 
complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr B £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman