DRN-1800450
 
The complaint
Mr C says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him when it 
provided loans he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened 
This complaint is about four instalment loans that Mr Lender provided to Mr C between 
November 2014 and March 2015. 
All the loans have been repaid  although when Mr C had problems paying loan 4 Mr Lender 
helped by setting up an affordable repayment plan with him and so Mr C was able to pay the 
loan over a longer period.
Heres a table setting out details of these loans: 
 
LoanDate
TakenDate
Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest 
repayment
113/11/2014 13/12/2014 2 £150.00 £127.50
219/12/2014 13/01/2015 6 £400.00 £143.99
315/01/2015 10/02/2015 2 £160.00 £109.44
419/03/2015 11/12/2015 6 £500.00 £183.33
 
Our adjudicator thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for Mr 
Lender to ask Mr C for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable on the first three loans.
By the time Mr C was applying for loan 4, our adjudicator felt that Mr Lender shouldve done 
more checks in order to build a more detailed picture of Mr Cs financial situation. But had it 
done better checks, our adjudicator still didn't think that there was anything in the information 
provided to us which suggested that Mr Lender wouldve known that Mr C would find it hard 
to sustainably make the repayments hed signed up to on this loan. 
And our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr C had taken out, the amounts 
hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Mr Lender shouldve alerted 
Mr Lender to think he was having money problems. So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. He mainly says that Mr Lender shouldve realised that when he asked for his 
fourth loan in 5 months this showed a pattern of reliance on lending to get him from payday 
to payday and he was in a spiral of debt.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint. 
Before lending to Mr C, Mr Lender asked Mr C for information about his financial situation, 
such as his monthly income and his outgoings, including other creditor repayments, and it 
carried out credit checks. 
I agree with our adjudicator that when Mr C took out his first three loans, Mr Lender was 
reasonably entitled to rely on the information Mr C provided. At that stage, Mr C hadnt 
shown any signs that hed found it hard to pay these loans. The figures hed declared, and 
the information Mr Lender had collected, seem to support Mr Lenders lending decision. 
Looking at what hed told Mr Lender about his monthly income and his expenses this 
suggested that Mr C was comfortably able to afford this borrowing. It was early in the lending 
relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Mr Lender to agree to lend. 
By the time he was asking for his fourth loan in 5 months, I think Mr Lender shouldve been 
alerted to the possibility that it was no longer reasonable to base its lending decision on the 
information Mr C was providing. I think it would have been proportionate for Mr Lender to 
have taken steps to independently check the true state of Mr Cs finances when he asked for 
loan 4. 
Ive looked carefully at everything Mr C has told us and sent to us. However, I havent seen 
anything in the information available to me which shows Mr Lender should have decided not 
to agree this loan had it done proportionate checks. And the repayments on this loan still 
looked affordable for Mr C based on all the information he provided to Mr Lender and the 
other information it had gathered. So I cant fairly say that Mr Lender shouldnt have provided 
loan 4 to Mr C.
Im sorry that Mr C had a problem repaying all his borrowing. And I accept that in reality 
Mr Cs financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, 
or the other information Mr Lender obtained. But in order to uphold this complaint I have to 
be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I havent seen enough to 
make me think that Mr Lender did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr C. I appreciate that my decision not to uphold his complaint about any of these loans will likely 
come as a disappointment to Mr C. I hope my explanations help him understand why Ive 
reached these conclusions. 
If Mr C would like help to manage his finances theres more information about how to get 
free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman