DRN-2386909
The complaint
Mr A is being represented by a CMC. They said advice given by St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc to Mr A in 2013 and 2014 was unsuitable. He invested in higher risk funds 
than were appropriate for him as an inexperienced investor.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A met with an adviser on 8 October 2013 and again on 11 November 2014. 
The adviser recorded details about Mr and Mrs As personal and financial circumstances in a 
document commonly referred to as a fact find. Mr and Mrs A were married and had one 
dependent son. Mr A was employed. Mrs A was employed and also receiving child benefit.
Their total monthly expenditure was £2,000 with Mr A taking care of essential expenditure 
and his wife taking responsibility for discretionary expenditure. This left a combined 
disposable income of £2,080. Mr A and Mrs A had no debts and their home was mortgage 
free. This had been cleared when Mr A received an inheritance.
The objective of the investment was capital growth, to support Mr As lifestyle in retirement 
or to possibly provide financial support for his son, should he wish to pursue higher 
education. The investment was to be held for the medium to long term and his attitude to risk 
was recorded as medium. The definition of a medium risk investor was:
You want your capital to keep pace with inflation and are investing for at least five years. 
You want the potential to achieve better long-term returns and are comfortable with your 
capital being invested in equities, some of it overseas, bonds and in some cases property. 
You realise there may be significant falls in the value of your investments.
Mr and Mrs A held £22,000 in immediate access accounts in November 2013. Mr A also 
held a one-year cash bond of £95,000. Following the maturity of the cash bond in late 2014, 
£45,000 was invested with SJP. £14,200 was put into his existing SJP ISA, and £30,800 into 
a Unit Trust Feeder. 
Mr As capacity for loss was established. A contingency of £6,000 was put aside for 
emergency needs. Mr A had no planned expenditure for large expenses in the coming 
months. A fall in the value of investment wouldnt have a significant impact on his living 
standards.
The adviser also provided suitability letters for Mr A with details of the advice. The 
investment was made into the Balanced Income Portfolio. The fund consisted of UK equities, 
International equities, Property, Bonds and Cash. The aim of the fund was to generate an 
attractive level of income with the potential to rise over time.
In November 2013, Mr A was advised to invest £5,000 into the SJP ISA, followed by a 
monthly contribution of £200. This was invested in the Balanced Income Portfolio. 
In December 2014 Mr A was advised to invest £14,200 into the SJP ISA he already had, and 
£30,800 into a Unit Trust Feeder.
Mr A withdrew funds from the ISA and fully surrendered it in November 2017.
The CMC complained to SJP about the suitability of the advice. SJP investigated and issued 
their final response. They did not uphold the complaint as they said the advice was suitable.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He concluded that the advice to invest in 
a Balanced income portfolio was not unsuitable for Mr A. He was informed about the risks of 
investing in the fund and was left with a suitable cash reserve.
The CMC did not accept the investigators conclusions. They said:
Mr A was essentially a novice investor, one year is too short a period to see the 
normal rises and falls in the stock market. They disagreed that there was any 
evidence Mr A knew the level of risk he was exposed to. The later investment was a 
continuation of the earlier advice. They disagreed that a balanced investment was 
suitable for someone with no investment experience and Mr As money should have 
been placed into a cautious investment.
Mr A had around £115,000 in free assets therefore the investment of a combined 
£56,000 represented risking almost half of Mr As free assets into a balanced 
investment. That was unsuitable for someone with no previous experience and who 
was approaching retirement.
No justification was given for Mr As classification as a medium risk investor other 
than you want your capital to keep up with inflation and are investing for at least five 
years, which is closer to a description of a Cautious investor. Cautious investments 
can of course keep pace with inflation, and Mr A did not need to take the level of risk 
in a Balanced investment to meet this aim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence, I have come to the same conclusions as our 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr A was a relatively inexperienced investor. But he had a sum of money to invest following 
an inheritance. He was debt free and wanted capital growth. I am satisfied the risks of the 
investment were explained in the documentation provided to him. 
The risk Mr A was prepared to accept with his investment was defined as medium as set out 
above. The Balanced Income Portfolio invested in wide range of assets, although there was 
a relatively high equity content. However, I am satisfied from the definition of risk provided to 
Mr A, which he accepted, that the fund was suitable.
Although Mr A was a novice investor, it is always a matter of judgement as to how much risk 
could reasonably be taken. Mr A was left with a cash reserve and I am satisfied he could 
afford to take the risk. Overall, I cannot say that the advice was unsuitable.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Roy Milne
Ombudsman