DRN-3128646
The complaint
Miss D is complaining NewDay Ltd didnt refund an amount she paid on her credit card for a 
holiday after the travel provider went into liquidation.
What happened
In July 2019 Miss D bought a holiday through a travel provider  who I shall refer to as T. 
The holiday cost £1,906. She paid a deposit of £6 and then paid the remaining £1,900 on 
her NewDay credit card. In September 2019 T went into liquidation  seven days before 
Miss D was supposed to travel  so her holiday was cancelled. 
Miss D called NewDay and ask it to freeze interest on the card, but she says NewDay told 
her it couldnt do so and told her to contact ATOL to get a refund. Miss D says she tried to 
raise a complaint with NewDay a number of times over the next two months, but she says 
she wasnt able to do so. 
In February 2020 Miss D called NewDay and she says it told her it would refund the interest 
if ATOL refunded the transaction directly to her credit card. Miss D says she told NewDay 
that she thought this was unfair because she explained ATOL wouldnt refund the money 
directly onto her credit card. 
ATOL later refunded the cost of the holiday to Miss D and she put this towards the balance 
on her credit card. She asked NewDay to refund the interest, but it said it wasnt required to 
do so because the refund wasnt received from ATOL directly.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought NewDay should have considered Miss Ds 
initial request for assistance under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75). He 
said theres no dispute that Miss D wasnt able to travel because T went into liquidation. She 
didnt get the service she paid for, so the investigator was satisfied there was a breach of 
contract. He thinks NewDay should have refunded the cost of the holiday when Miss D first 
asked for assistance. And he said, had NewDay done so, she wouldnt have had to pay 
interest on the transaction from then. So he thought NewDay should refund the interest
charged on the transaction in question from 23 September 2019  the date T went into 
liquidation.
NewDay didnt agree with the investigator and maintained it didnt have to refund the interest 
because ATOL refunded the cost of the holiday. And it asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Miss D contacted NewDay for assistance both through NewDays online webchat and on the 
telephone. Due to the passage of time, NewDay doesnt have a copy of the correspondence 
it had with Miss D at the time. But Ive found her recollection of what was said to be 
consistent and persuasive.
I understand Miss D contacted NewDay four times in the three weeks after T went into 
liquidation looking for assistance. It seems NewDay instructed her to contact ATOL, but I 
dont think this was fair. As its not disputed T breached the terms of the contract, NewDay, 
as the credit card provider, had a responsibility to put things right owing to its responsibilities 
under S75.
I accept its likely Miss D didnt specifically ask for assistance under S75. But NewDay 
should have also understood Miss D wouldnt necessarily have understood what her rights 
were. And it should have understood she was looking for it to provide her with assistance in 
the difficult time she, like many others, was facing following Ts liquidation. I dont think it was 
fair to automatically direct her back to ATOL and it should have explained her rights under 
S75 as well.
Miss D paid for the holiday on her NewDay credit card. S75 sets out that, in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, NewDay is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by T. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
The terms of Miss Ds contract with T entitled T to cancel the holiday. But they also said that, 
if T did so, it needed to do the following:
If we [T] have to cancel your Holiday well tell you as soon as reasonably possible. If we can 
do so, well offer you an alternative Holiday of equivalent or closely similar standard and 
price at no extra cost to you, or a Holiday of lesser quality or cost, in which case well refund 
the difference in price. If you dont wish to take the alternative we offer you, you can choose 
another one of our Holidays and pay, or receive a full refund of, any price difference. 
Alternatively, if we cant offer an alternative Holiday that youre happy to accept, you can 
have a full refund of any money youve paid to us, except for any amendment charges which 
arose before cancellation.
So, upon the cancellation of the holiday, T was contractually required to either provide 
Miss D with an alternative holiday or provide a full refund of what Miss D paid for it. Miss D 
didnt receive either. So Im satisfied T breached the terms of its contract.
Miss D didnt have to resolve the matter directly with T or through an alternative dispute 
authority to be eligible to claim under S75. And NewDay should have understood this and 
advised Miss D of her rights as this was likely to be the quickest way of ensuring she didnt 
continue to pay interest on the transaction. Had it considered this request under S75, 
NewDay would have refunded the amount Miss D paid for the holiday. And I think she would 
have received this sooner than she did with ATOL. So I think Miss D has lost out.
But, even if what Ive said above wasnt the case, I should also highlight NewDay is liable for 
all recoverable losses under S75  and this includes consequential losses arising from a 
breach of contract. Further to this, the terms of Miss Ds contract with T sets out that T will compensate Miss D for consequential losses arising from a breach of contract (up to three 
times the cost of the holiday). As I said above, T breached Miss Ds contract by failing to 
provide an alternative flight or to provide a full refund. 
After Miss D received a refund from ATOL, she asked NewDay to refund the interest she 
paid. NewDay said it wasnt required to pay this because ATOL refunded the money to 
Miss D directly. But I dont agree, as it should have considered its responsibilities under S75. 
Had T issued a refund, as it was contractually required to do, Miss D wouldnt have been 
charged interest on the transaction going forward. So I think the interest she paid since T 
went into administration is a direct loss arising from Ts breach of contract. I also think its 
reasonably foreseeable that a consumer will incur financial losses (e.g. interest charges) if a 
refund isnt provided or is delayed. Finally, I think Miss D has taken reasonable steps to 
mitigate her losses by asking NewDay to freeze her interest charges and also in applying for 
a refund from ATOL when she was unsuccessful in getting assistance from NewDay. As I 
think the interest she has paid is a loss Miss D could have recovered from T, it follows that I 
think NewDay is liable for this loss.
Taking everything into consideration, I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is that 
NewDay should reconstruct Miss Ds credit card as if shed received a full refund of the cost 
of the holiday from the day T went into liquidation  23 September 2019  and this was paid 
towards her credit card balance. If, after doing so, it finds out Miss D was out of pocket, it 
should pay 8% simple interest on this from the date she was first out of pocket until she gets 
it back. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require 
NewDay Ltd to reconstruct Miss Ds credit card as if shed paid £1,900 onto her credit card 
on 23 September 2019  the day T went into liquidation. If, after doing so, it finds out Miss D 
was out of pocket, it should pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date she was 
first out of pocket until she gets it back. If NewDay thinks that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss D how much its taken 
off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman