DRN-4051144
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank didnt do more to 
protect him when he fell victim to an investment scam. Mr P has brought this complaint with 
the assistance of a professional representative, but for simplicitys sake Ive only referred to 
him throughout the text of the decision.
Background
In January 2018, Mr P fell victim to an investment scam. Hed been researching potential 
investment opportunities online and found the website of what he believed to be a legitimate 
investment firm. He filled in an enquiry form on its website and this resulted in him being 
contacted by one its sales team. He was invited to invest his money in a fixed rate bond. The 
bond would mature after two years and pay Mr P a return of 5.43%. Unfortunately, the 
company Mr P had established contact with wasnt a genuine firm, but a fraudulent 
operation. In total, Mr P transferred £30,000 to it.
Before he did so, Mr P carried out some checks to ensure that the company was genuine. 
He noticed that the company didnt appear on the register of authorised firms maintained by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) nor did it appear on the register at Companies House. 
He queried this and was told that the company was incorporated in Switzerland.
Mr P found the formal documentation used to support the scam to be professional in 
appearance and essentially indistinguishable from genuine bond documentation hed seen 
when investing at other times. It also had a professional looking website which helped to 
persuade him that the company was authentic.
He made his first payment of £12,500 on 13 January 2018 but needed to speak to an 
employee of the bank before the payment could be processed. After making that first 
payment, he contacted the business that had issued the bond and checked whether the 
reference number for that product matched the one on the documentation that had been 
shared with him. It did and so he was happy to make further payments. 
Once he realised that hed fallen victim to a scam, he notified Danske Bank. It looked into his 
concerns but declined to reimburse the money he lost. It said that, even if it had done more, 
it didnt believe there would be any obvious cause for concern. It didnt think it wouldve had 
any basis for thinking the investment wasnt legitimate.
Mr P was unhappy with that response and so he referred his complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it for broadly the same reasons. The 
Investigator said that Danske Bank had an obligation to be on the lookout for unusual or out 
of character transactions with the aim of protecting its customers from financial harm due to 
fraud. The Investigator didnt think that these payments were unusual or out of character. But 
even if Danske Bank, had intervened, he thought it was unlikely it wouldve been able to 
prevent the scam.
Essentially, the scam was sufficiently credible that enquiries from the bank wouldnt have 
brought it to light. Warnings were eventually posted on the websites of more than one 
regulator (including the FCA) but these came after Mr P had made these payments. Even if 
hed been encouraged to conduct further research, he wouldnt have found anything that 
unambiguously showed this to be a scam.
Mr P disagreed with the Investigators opinion. He said that the bank shouldve warned him 
that the absence of the company from Companies House and the FCA register suggested 
that this was a scam. And although the scammers managed to convince him that this was 
because they were a Swiss company, staff at the bank wouldve been able to tell him that 
this wasnt the case.
Because Mr P disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground here that Mr P authorised the payments in dispute. He was tricked by 
the fraudsters into making the payments in the belief that he was participating in a genuine 
investment opportunity. These were authorised payments even though Mr P was the victim 
of a fraud. And although he didnt intend the money to go to fraudsters, he is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Danske Bank should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts, and any payments made or received, to counter 
various risks, including money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism and 
preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, which banks are generally 
more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make the payment altogether.
Ive considered this case carefully and I agree with the Investigators conclusion that, even if 
Danske Bank had intervened more extensively than it did, it wouldnt have prevented Mr P 
from losing out.
Its important to point out that it wouldnt be the role of an employee of the bank to carry out 
an investigation of their own to rule out the risk of fraud. Instead, where it has been identified 
that the risk of fraud is elevated, they should ensure that the customer has taken adequate 
steps to protect themselves or suggest further enquiries that the customer could make.
In this instance, Mr P had carried out some checks to protect himself. Furthermore, his 
conclusion that this was a legitimate investment was partially informed by his own 
experience of investing in similar investment products. The rate of return Mr P was expecting 
to earn on his money wasnt unusually high at the time  in fact, it had been specifically 
chosen by the fraudsters to match those of a genuine bond that had been issued by a third-party business. Mr P carried out his own checks on that specific bond and found that the 
details matched the one on the documentation that had been sent to him.
Mr P believed he was investing with a company outside of the UK, so it wouldnt necessarily 
have been a concern to him that it wasnt visible on Companies House or the FCA register. 
I dont think it follows that the bank shouldve advised him that this meant it was likely he was 
falling victim to investment fraud. Investing in unregulated products is obviously very high 
risk, but it doesnt automatically follow that such investments are fraudulent.
Mr Ps representatives have suggested that the bank shouldve checked whether the 
company was genuinely trading in Switzerland. However, Im not persuaded that it would be 
reasonable to expect the employee of the bank to know how to verify that. 
There is an equivalent to the Companies House register in Switzerland, but it isnt entirely 
straightforward to consult since it appears to divide the listing up based on the canton in 
which the company is registered. The FCAs equivalent organisation in Switzerland does 
maintain a register of firms it authorises. However, the information there isnt presented in a 
straightforward way. Lists of authorised persons are available under different categories 
(examples of which include Asset Management, Portfolio Managers and Trustees, Stock 
Exchange and Financial Market Infrastructure). Each category then has up to ten documents 
named based on the source of the authorisation of the specific firm or person. In short, the 
register is labyrinthine. I wouldnt expect an agent of the bank to know how to reliably 
interpret it.
Overall, I dont find that any failing on the part of Danske Bank was the cause of Mr Ps 
losses here and so I dont think it needs to reimburse him.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman