DRN-3591112
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly recorded late 
payment markers on his credit file.
What happened
Mr Bs credit card account was used fraudulently. He says he was told he would be 
refunded the money in about five days, but it took about a month. Mr B says he was told 
he didnt need to make a payment and that there wouldnt be an impact on his credit file. 
But says Barclaycard did report missed payments to the Credit Reference Agencies 
(CRAs) which has impacted his ability to obtain a loan. Mr B would like the markers 
removed and says Barclaycard could have told him payments were still required.
Barclaycard says it hasnt made a mistake and is obliged to report accurate information to 
the CRAs. It says Mr B used his account for legitimate transactions and so was required 
to make monthly payments. Barclaycard accepts it didnt deal with parts of Mr Bs 
complaint as it should and has paid compensation. It also says it accepts Mr Bs testimony 
when he says he was told he wasnt required to make a payment but cant find evidence 
of that on the calls between the parties. Barclaycard says Mr B paid off the balance and 
normally repaid his monthly balance in full.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought there was genuine spending on Mr Bs account, and he was responsible for 
making the required payments. The investigator thought the compensation appropriate 
for the delay and mistakes in dealing with the fraud complaint.
Mr B doesnt accept that view and says he made numerous calls to Barclaycard about 
what was happening and checked if he needed to make a payment. He would like the 
adverse information removed from his credit file.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said that Barclaycard should fairly 
remove the late payment markers from Mr Bs credit file for the reasons I would explain. I 
said I didnt intend to comment on the compensation award or other parts of Mr Bs 
complaint as I thought it clear it is only the credit file issue, he now wished an 
ombudsman decision on.
I said there was no dispute here that Mr Bs credit card account was used repeatedly for 
fraudulent transactions. I looked at the account statements and thought it clear that there 
were a number of fraudulent transactions and that the fraud continued even after a new 
account card was sent to Mr B. I listened to the telephone calls between Mr B and 
Barclaycard that have been made available and I thought it clear that Mr B was worried 
and confused about the situation.
I said I was satisfied that Mr B made a number of calls to Barclaycard and was told 
transactions would be refunded. I thought it clear from the calls that Mr B was unsure 
about what was happening and what if anything he needed to do. I did not hear Mr B 
asking if a payment was required during those calls but equally did not hear Barclaycard 
tell Mr B that a payment needed to be made. I didnt think it clear what the implications 
for a late payment marker the delay in Barclaycard applying the refunds had.
I could see that Barclaycard told us and Mr B that it doesnt dispute his testimony when he 
says he was told no payment was required. In those circumstances I said if Barclaycard 
doesnt dispute what Mr B says then I couldnt see how it could fairly register late payment 
markers on his credit file. It follows that I thought Mr B would have followed the advice 
given by Barclaycard. In any event I thought that Barclaycard could have explained to Mr 
B during the many calls that he should make a payment for the legitimate transactions. But 
thought it likely the position was not clear caused by the amount of fraudulent transactions 
and about which of them had been refunded.
I was satisfied that Barclaycard should consider Mr Bs previous account management 
that it told us about namely that Mr B managed his account appropriately by repaying 
the full account balance per month. And that Mr B repaid the full balance shortly after 
the fraud. I thought that position could be contrasted with those that make no attempt 
to make a required credit card payment and do not engage with a lender. I was 
satisfied these circumstances were different to the usual type that lead to late payment 
markers.
I said I hope Barclaycard will listen again to the telephone calls between it and Mr B and 
no doubt search for any others that may have been made. I said the calls I listened to are 
originated on the whole by Mr B and I thought it clear that he engaged with Barclaycard 
in trying to resolve the issue and assist it. I didnt think simply reporting the missed 
payments on Mr Bs credit file was an accurate reflection of what took place here or is a 
fair approach taking into account the relatively unusual circumstances of what took place.
Overall, my provisional view was that Barclaycard should remove the adverse missed 
payment information from Mr Bs credit file for the reasons I have explained and in 
circumstances where it doesnt dispute what Mr B says.
Mr B has accepted my provisional view and Barclaycard has not replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same decision that I reached in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard to remove the late payment markers and any other adverse information it 
recorded from Mr Bs credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman