DRN-3947490
Complaint
Mr E has complained about personal loans Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loans were unaffordable and were therefore 
irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Everyday Loans initially provided Mr E with a first loan for £1,000.00 in October 2018. This 
loan had an APR of 127.1% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be 
repaid of £1,735.20, including interest, fees and charges of £735.20, was due to be repaid in 
18 monthly instalments of just under £100. This loan was repaid in full with some of the 
proceeds from loan 2.
Everyday Loans provided Mr E with loan 2 for £3,000.00 in May 2019. £674.80 of the funds 
went towards settling the outstanding balance on loan 1. This loan had an APR of 102.9% 
and a term of 36 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £7,236.36, 
including interest, fees and charges of £4,236.36, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly 
instalments of just over £200. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Es complaint and she thought Everyday Loans ought 
to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr E with either of his loans. So she thought 
that Mr Es complaint should be upheld. Everyday Loans disagreed. So the case was passed 
to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Es complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr E could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before these loans were provided. The results of which showed that Mr E already had a 
significant amount of existing debt at the time of loan 1 and that this grew significantly by the 
time of loan 2. Furthermore, the bank statements Everyday Loans obtained from Mr E 
showed that he had a number of direct debits and standing order payments returned due to 
having insufficient funds in his account. 
Everyday Loans says it asked Mr E about this and he said that these were down to him 
changing job. But I dont think that it was reasonable to proceed on this basis of this answer, 
given the application details suggest that Mr E had changed jobs months earlier. 
Im also concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure calculation for loan 2 
showed that this loan would be taking Mr E right to the margin of his disposal income. And 
this was in the face of his increasing indebtedness in the period between loan 1 and loan 2 
being taken out. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr E has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Es financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Es version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Es existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to these loans, without undue difficulty or 
borrowing further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
like than not have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided these loans to            
Mr E. As Everyday Loans provided Mr E with these loans, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied 
it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards him. 
Mr E ended up paying interest, fees and charges on loans he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr E lost out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that 
it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Lending needs to do to put things right for Mr E
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr E by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr E paid on his loans;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr E to the date of settlement;
removing all adverse information it recorded on Mr Es credit file as a result of these 
loans. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Es complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman