DRN-3334408
The complaint
Mr K complains about Santander UK Plcs decision to close his account and register a fraud 
marker against him.
What happened
In May 2015, Mr K paid a £20,000 cheque into his account. A couple of days later, the 
cheque returned unpaid and Santander carried out a review into Mr Ks account. Santander 
contacted the sending bank of the cheque and it confirmed it had suspicions of the 
legitimacy of the cheque. Santander contacted Mr K and asked him to show his proof of 
entitlement to the cheque and details on where it had been sent from. Mr K didnt send 
Santander any proof of entitlement.
Following their review, Santander decided to close Mr Ks account and registered a Credit 
Industry Fraud Avoidance System (CIFAS) marker against him. 
Mr K complained to Santander in 2015 about the closure of his account and says he didnt 
receive a response from them. Santander confirm they did respond to Mr Ks complaint.
In 2020, Mr K learned about the CIFAS marker registered against him and got back in touch 
with Santander. Santander responded to Mr Ks complaint and confirmed their decision 
remains. Santander sent their response to an old address despite Mr K giving them his new 
address  so Mr K didnt receive it.
Mr K brought the complaint to our service. He said finding out about the CIFAS marker has 
had a profound effect on his health and hes been living with anxiety. He also said he hasnt 
been able to open mobile phone contracts and had to withdraw from a job contract due to 
the CIFAS marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. In summary, she said;
the CIFAS marker was recorded correctly based on the evidence shed seen and 
what was available to Santander in 2015  mainly that the cheque was raised as 
suspicious by the sending bank and Mr K didnt provide any additional evidence to 
Santander to confirm his eligibility of it;
Santander were entitled to review and close Mr Ks account;
shed seen no evidence of poor customer service in 2015, and while Santander sent 
their correspondence to the 2020 complaint to the wrong address, this didnt have an 
overall impact.
Mr K responded to our investigators view and wasnt happy with it. He said he thought our 
investigators findings neglected most part of how Santander abuse their customers but 
didnt provide any further evidence or arguments relating to the circumstances of his 
complaint.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Were Santander entitled to review, block and close Mr Ks account?
Santander are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Santander were acting in line 
with these obligations when reviewing, blocking, and subsequently closing Mr Ks account. 
Santander are required to regularly review the relationships they hold with their customers 
and its often appropriate for certain transactions to be reviewed. In Mr Ks case, the cheque 
he paid into his account was raised as suspicious, so Im pleased to see Santander took the 
action to block any further activity on the account while they investigated things.
Santander asked Mr K for further information relating to the cheque  and to confirm his 
eligibility of the money. Mr K didnt provide any additional evidence and therefore, Santander 
continued with their own review. They received information from the sending bank which 
they have shared with our service in confidence. Im sorry I cant share the full details with 
Mr K but Im satisfied based on the evidence Ive seen that Santander were entitled to close 
Mr Ks account and did so by complying with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Therefore, I cant reasonably say Santander did anything wrong when deciding to close 
Mr Ks account.
Was the fraud marker applied fairly?
Following their review, Santander placed a fraud marker against Mr Ks name with CIFAS. 
Ive looked at whether it was fair of Santander to apply the marker, based on the evidence 
and what the rules say about applying such markers. 
When a business is a member of CIFAS it can record a marker against an individual 
customer when that customer has used their account fraudulently (a misuse of facility 
marker). This type of marker will stay on record for six years and will usually make it difficult 
for a customer to take out new financial products as Mr K has encountered. In order to file 
such a marker, Santander arent required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr K is 
guilty of a fraud of financial crime, but they must show that there are grounds for more than 
mere suspicion or concern. CIFAS says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or 
financial crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
 The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member 
could confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that either there was an 
attempt to put fraudulent funds into Mr Ks account or fraudulent funds have entered Mr Ks 
account and were either moved on or retained. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong 
evidence to show that Mr K was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment 
and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. But a marker should not be registered 
against someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity. 
Ive thought about whether Santander have provided evidence that fraudulent funds were 
attempted to enter Mr Ks account and he knew they were, or might be, illegitimate 
payments. And I think they have; Ill explain why below:
Im satisfied the evidence Santander provided regarding the cheque confirm the cheque was not genuine.
Mr K didnt provide any information relating to his eligibility of the cheque in 2015 
when Santander queried it.
Mr K didnt use his Santander account for a prolonged period before the cheque was 
paid in.
Mr K has confirmed the sender of the cheque was a close friend of his and that the 
cheque returned unpaid due to insufficient funds  but based on the evidence 
provided, Im satisfied this wasnt the case.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
information about other customers, security information or commercially sensitive 
information. As part of this complaint, some of the information which has been provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential. 
Im sorry I cant share the full reasons with Mr K but Im satisfied based on the full 
circumstances of this complaint and the evidence provided that I think Mr K was complicit in 
attempting to receive the fraudulent payments. It follows that Santander met the 
requirements to load a CIFAS marker and I wont be asking the bank to do anything further.
Im also aware that due to the time which has passed, the CIFAS marker is no longer 
registered against Mr K.
The customer service provided to Mr K
As part of this complaint, Mr K has raised concerns relating to the customer service he 
received from Santander. Due to the time passed, Santander havent been able to provide 
me with a copy of the call recordings which took place in 2015. Im aware Mr K thinks they 
should have kept these phone calls, but theyre not required to keep information forever. Id 
expect the bank to keep the relevant information for the time the CIFAS marker is in place, 
but as that time has now passed, I find it reasonable the phone calls arent available. Based 
on this, I cant fairly uphold Mr Ks complaint on this point as I havent seen any evidence 
from either party.
Im aware Santander sent their response to Mr Ks complaint in 2020 to Mr Ks previous 
address  despite Mr K informing them of his new address. I dont doubt this would have 
been inconvenient, but based on the circumstances of the complaint, I dont think it had an 
overall impact. I say that because the complaint was in relation to a CIFAS marker recorded 
in 2015  and therefore would have been due to expire in 2021. Im also satisfied Mr K was 
aware of our service as he had mentioned to Santander that he would bring a complaint to 
our service if they didnt respond to him. Because of that, while I agree Santander should 
have updated Mr Ks correspondence information, Mr K was aware he could bring the 
complaint to our service, so I dont think this error on Santanders part caused any delays or 
real upset.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander were entitled to review and subsequently close Mr Ks 
account in 2015. And I think they had sufficient evidence to register a CIFAS marker against 
him at the time. I recognise Santander could have handled things better by ensuring Mr Ks 
address was updated when responding to this complaint, but based on the full 
circumstances of whats happened, I dont require them to pay any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman