DRN-3668184
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc have applied a default on her credit file following
a missed payment on her fixed sum loan agreement.
The complaint has been brought to our service by a solicitor on behalf of Mrs C. For ease of
reading, Ill refer to all submissions as made by Mrs C.
What happened
On 16 January 2020, Mrs C called Sainsburys Bank to change the direct debit date to
coincide with her pay day. Sainsburys Bank told Mrs C the direct debit had already been
called for as it was only four days before the payment was due. They explained they
required at least 10 days notice to make amendments to the direct debit.
Mrs C explained that if the direct debit was collected before she was paid, it would cause her
financial difficulties. Sainsburys Bank suggested that Mrs C cancelled her direct debit and
make a manual payment after her pay day. They also told Mrs C theyd ensure she wouldnt
be charged any fees or interest.
On 28 January 2020, Mrs C called Sainsburys Bank to make a manual payment and set up
the direct debit on her preferred payment date. Sainsburys Bank told Mrs C that they
werent able to make any changes to the direct debit until her payment had been processed,
which would take three to five days and shed need to call back to change the direct debit
date after this.
Mrs C then got in touch with Sainsburys Bank on 17 February 2020. Sainsburys Bank
werent able to make the changes to the direct debit as they werent given 10 days notice
before the direct debit payment was due that month. They agreed with Mrs C she could
make a manual payment and set up the direct debit on her preferred payment date from
March 2020 onwards.
Sainsburys Bank didnt receive the manual payment from Mrs C for February 2020 and her
account went into arrears by £412.66. Mrs C contacted Sainsburys Bank in May 2020 to
and a payment arrangement was set up for £100 per month for three months, in addition to
her monthly repayments. Sainsburys Bank told Mrs C theyd need to speak to her again at
the end of the arrangement to discuss the next steps for the outstanding amount.
When the arrangement ended in August 2020, Mrs C still had an arrears amount of £112.66
to repay. Sainsburys Bank tried contacting Mrs C, and when they didnt hear from her, they
defaulted her account on 29 November 2020.
Mrs C contacted Sainsburys Bank on 3 December 2020 and brought her account up to date.
During this call, she wasnt made aware that her account had already been defaulted.
Sainsburys Bank called her back to inform her.
Unhappy with this, Mrs C raised a complaint. She said she wasnt made aware of the arrears
on the account. She believes the missed payment in February 2020 was due to an internal
error with Sainsburys Bank. And they made a mistake with setting up the repayment plan
over three months instead of four, leaving a shortfall of £112.66. She said Sainsburys Bank
took too long to deal with her complaint, and they didnt respond to her letters chasing for a
response.
Sainsburys Bank said Mrs C didnt make a manual payment in February 2020 which put her
account into arrears. They explained they didnt make an error in setting up the arrangement
plan and were satisfied the default had been applied correctly. They accepted Mrs C
shouldve been told about the default when she called to make the payment, rather than
having to call her back. They apologised for the poor service and delays in responding to her
complaint. They offered Mrs C £80 compensation.
Our investigator said that Sainsburys Bank had correctly applied the default and made
reasonable attempts to contact Mrs C before doing so. She felt the compensation of £80
fairly recognises the service issues Mrs C experienced. Mrs C disagreed and asked for an
ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision 
I issued a provisional decision on 27 July 2022. My findings were as follows:
Missed direct debit
Ive listened to the calls of 16 January, 28 January, and 17 February 2020. Having 
done so, Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank made it clear to Mrs C that she needs to give 
them 10 days notice to make amendments to her direct debit. And that Mrs C was 
aware that she needed to make a manual payment in both January 2020 and 
February 2020.
As a result, I dont agree that the missed direct debit in February 2020 was due to an 
error by Sainsburys Bank as Mrs C has mentioned. 
That said, customers use direct debits for the convenience and peace of mind that 
important bills, such as loan repayments are made on time. Based on what Ive seen, 
I think Sainsburys Bank made it more difficult for Mrs C to change the direct debit to 
her preferred payment date. Ill explain why.
Sainsburys Bank say they couldnt change the direct debit date on 16 January 2020 
as they had already called for the payment. And they couldnt set up the direct debit 
on 28 January 2020 as Mrs Cs manual payment hadnt been processed fully which 
takes three to five days.
However, I cant see why Sainsburys Bank wouldve been prevented from setting up 
a new direct debit instruction from Mrs C on 16 January 2020 to start from February 
2020 on Mrs Cs preferred date.
I say this because Mrs Cs existing direct debit had already been cancelled by 
Sainsburys Bank as reflected in their system notes which says:
advised cust to cancel down DD with bank to make sure they don't charge 
cust and I have also closed down DD from our end.Mrs Cs account was up to date and didnt go into arrears until 20 January 2020 
when the direct debit payment was due. There was also more than 10 days notice 
from 16 January 2020 until Mrs Cs preferred payment date in February 2020.
So, I think Sainsburys Bank shouldve taken instructions form Mrs C to set up a new 
direct debit from February 2020 onwards. If they had done so, Im persuaded that its 
more likely than not that Mrs C wouldnt have missed the payment in February 2020 
as shed asked the payment to be collected on her pay day.
Allocation of payments
The terms and conditions of Mrs Cs agreement sets out the order in which 
Sainsburys Bank will use payments to repay the amount owed. It says:
Allocation of payments
We will use your payments to repay the amount you owe us under this 
agreement in this order; first towards any amount in arrears you owe because 
you did not make monthly payments in full when they were due; then towards 
any monthly payments which are currently due; next, towards any additional 
arrears interest and late payment fees and lastly, towards reducing the 
remaining loan amount you owe us.
The statement of account shows that Mrs C made a payment of £412.66 on 27 
November 2020. As per the Allocation of payments term under the agreement, 
Sainsburys Bank shouldve allocated part of this payment to first clear the amount in 
arrears and then towards the monthly payment which was due.
The default notice that was sent to Mrs C on 2 November 2020 asked Mrs C to pay 
£143.74 by 29 November 2020. Mrs Cs payment of £412.66 on 27 November 2020 
more than covered the amount she needed to pay to remedy the requirements of the 
default notice.
Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank didnt allocate the payments in line with the terms and
conditions. If they had done so, then the payment Mrs C made wouldve been used 
to clear the arrears first  meaning the default couldnt have been applied as Mrs C 
made the payment set out in the notice of default. The notice of default clearly says: 
If the action required by this notice is taken before the date shown, no further 
enforcement action will be taken in respect of the breach. 
Therefore, Sainsburys Bank have acted unfairly in applying the default. I appreciate 
Sainsburys Bank have pointed out the approach weve taken on other cases
and have queried what action they couldve taken in the circumstances. In reaching 
my decision, Im not suggesting that Sainsburys Bank needs to redesign their 
collections strategy or change their overall approach to dealing with outstanding 
balances. Im simply considering the individual circumstances of this particular 
complaint to decide if the default was applied fairly, and I dont think it was as Ive 
concluded above.
Disproportionality
Section 7 of the Consumer Credit Sourcebook on treatment of customers in default 
or arrears says that lenders must not take disproportionate action against a customer 
in arrears or default.Given that Mrs C was making her contractual payments every month of £412.66 
since the start of the agreement and after missing the payment in February 2020, I 
think applying a default over arrears of £112.66 was disproportionate.
Sainsburys Bank have pointed out that the guidance from the Information 
Commissioners Office (ICO) on recording arrears, arrangements and defaults says 
that if a customer falls into arrears or they dont keep up to the revised terms of an 
arrangement, a lender can record a default when the customer is three to six months 
in arrears.
However, this guidance says that a default may be recorded and as a general guide, 
it may occur when the customer is three months in arrears and normally by six 
months in arrears.
This doesnt mean that a lender should immediately apply a default in every case 
when their customer is three months in arrears. The lender should act pragmatically 
taking into account the rest of the guidance including this principle and the 
circumstances of the customer.
The ICO guidance also says that data reported on a credit file must be fair, accurate,
consistent, complete and up to date. It wasnt unreasonable for Sainsburys Bank to 
continue to record the arrears and the arrangement plan on Mrs Cs credit file  this 
was a true and accurate reflection of how the account was managed.
However, in this particular case, a default is not a fair reflection of Mrs Cs situation. 
A default usually is at a point when a lender decides theyre unlikely to get their 
money back as the consumer isnt able to bring the account back on track. Its also 
generally an indication to other prospective lenders that the consumer hasnt been 
able to keep up with contractual payments and may be in financial difficulties.
Mrs C didnt miss her payment in February 2020 as a result of financial difficulties. In 
fact, the evidence shows that Mrs C has been maintaining her contractual payments 
of £416.22 before and after the missed payment in February 2020. This isnt a sign 
that Sainsburys Bank were unlikely to receive their money back.
I also dont think its fair to say that the relationship between Mrs C and Sainsburys 
Bank had broken down. I say this because the arrears on the account decreased 
after the arrangement plan and Mrs C continued to make contractual monthly 
repayments reducing the remaining loan amount.
Sainsburys Bank also seem happy for Mrs C to continue to make the same 
repayments despite defaulting the account and the outstanding balance remaining 
due. This indicates that the relationship hadnt broken down.
With this in mind and since defaulting the account was disproportionate, I dont think 
its fair to record the default on Mrs Cs credit file. And a lender must record data 
which is fair  this is one of the principles set out in the ICO guidance.
Putting things right
Ultimately, if Sainsburys Bank had followed their own terms and conditions in 
allocating the payments Mrs C made, then the default wouldnt have been applied.
In the circumstances of this complaint, I think its fair and reasonable for Sainsburys 
Bank to remove the default and allow Mrs C to continue repaying the loan under the 
original terms.Mrs C has asked for compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
While I dont dispute the default on Mrs Cs credit file has had an impact on her, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to ask Sainsburys Bank to compensate her.
I say this because Im satisfied Mrs C shouldve mitigated her circumstances. As Ive
explained above, Sainsburys Bank made it clear to her that she needs to give them 
10 days notice to amend her direct debit and that shed need to make a manual 
payment in January 2020 and February 2020. They also sent her letters on 11 April 
2020 and 1 May 2020
regarding the missed payment. So, I think Mrs C couldve made the payment sooner 
to avoid the situation she found herself in.
Ive listened to the call of 7 May 2020 when Sainsburys Bank agreed an 
arrangement plan with Mrs C. During this call, it was made very clear to Mrs C that 
the plan was to pay an additional £100 for three months and that shed need to speak 
to them again to come to an agreement on how to repay the rest of the arrears.
Even if Mrs C was unclear on the terms of the arrangement plan after the call, 
Sainsburys Bank sent her a letter on 8 May 2020 to confirm the details. The letter 
explained that three payments of £512.66 had been agreed. This shouldve 
reasonably made it clear to Mrs C that she hadnt agreed to make four payments to 
clear the arrears as she recalls.
The letter goes on to explain that if the overpayments dont clear the arrears, then
Sainsburys Bank would need to speak to Mrs C about the account. It confirms that 
the arrangement will be reviewed again on 2 August 2020 and Sainsburys Bank 
would be in touch to talk about how to manage the payments going forward.
Based on this, I think Mrs C should reasonably have been aware of the terms she 
agreed to and if there was any confusion, she couldve spoken to Sainsburys Bank 
to clarify this at the time.
Sainsburys Bank sent Mrs C letters on 2 August 2020, 16 August 2020 and 31 
August 2020 prompting her to get in touch to discuss the repayment of the 
outstanding arrears. I can see from their system notes, they also attempted several 
phone calls but werent successful in reaching Mrs C.
On 20 October 2020, Sainsburys Bank sent a letter giving Mrs C 10 days to get in 
contact with them regarding the arrears. They explained that the next step if they 
dont hear from her would be to issue a notice of default and then recording a default 
on Mrs Cs credit file.
Sainsburys Bank then issued a notice of default on 2 November 2020 asking Mrs C 
to make a payment of £143.74 before 29 November 2020. And that if payment wasnt 
received by this date, then further action could be taken against her.
All things considered, Im satisfied that Sainsburys Bank made reasonable efforts to 
get in contact with Mrs C regarding the arrears and she had several opportunities to 
prevent the default from being applied on her credit file.
The letters Sainsburys Bank sent to Mrs C were sent to the correct address  the 
same address given to our service. So, its unclear why Mrs C didnt receive them. 
But I cant reasonably blame Sainsburys Bank for this.I can see from the system notes provided by Sainsburys Bank that they made 
numerous unsuccessful attempts to call Mrs C between August and September. The 
telephone number they used to contact Mrs C appears to be correct as she 
confirmed this during the telephone call of 28 January 2020, 17 February 2020 and 9 
December 2020.
In any event, Sainsburys Bank didnt need to call Mrs C before applying a default on 
her credit file as shes suggested  even though they did try calling her. Theyre 
within their rights to communicate with her via letter regarding the arrears on her 
account as its one of the methods of correspondence provided by Mrs C.
Since Mrs C couldve done more to avoid the impact on her, I dont think Sainsburys 
Bank should compensate her for the distress and inconvenience she was caused by 
the default.
I agree Sainsburys Bank took too long to deal with Mrs Cs concerns and she had to 
chase them for a response. The complaint was first raised on 9 December 2020, but 
Sainsburys Bank didnt give their final response until 23 March 2021. 
Although Sainsburys Bank updated Mrs C twice to let her know they were still 
investigating her concerns, the delays were quite long given that they need to 
respond to complaints within eight weeks. Mrs C also shouldve been told about the 
default when she called Sainsburys Bank to clear the arrears.
I can understand why this wouldve been disappointing to Mrs C and caused her
unnecessary frustration and annoyance. Sainsburys Bank have rightly 
acknowledged this and apologised which Id expect them to do. Theyve also offered 
Mrs C £80 compensation for these customer service issues which I think is fair and 
reasonable to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Mrs C has also asked for her legal costs to be reimbursed to her. I dont think its fair 
and reasonable to hold Sainsburys Bank responsible for legal costs, as it was Mrs 
Cs choice to purse her complaint through a solicitor. She couldve raised her 
complaint for free with Sainsburys Bank herself and couldve sought advice from free 
services such as Citizens Advice. Its also free for anyone to bring a complaint to our 
service. So, I cant fairly hold Sainsburys Bank liable for costs which Mrs C incurred 
when she chose to be represented by a solicitor.
Responses to provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Sainsburys Bank said that I had misunderstood what happened on 16 January 2020. They 
explained the direct debit instruction had already been sent to the paying bank so they 
couldnt stop it from being collected.
If they had set up the direct debit from February 2020 onwards as Id suggested in my 
provisional decision, then it wouldve been cancelled again after Mrs C contacted her bank to 
stop the January 2020 payment from being taken. And Mrs Cs bank wouldnt have been 
able to stop just one instalment from being collected. 
They explained their system wouldnt have allowed them set up a direct debit for February 
2020 when a payment was in flight. And Mrs C wouldve had to call them again to do so by 
giving suitable notice.They say they have been pragmatic and havent rushed to default Mrs C as the account was 
in arrears from January until November 2020. They also made numerous attempts to contact 
Mrs C.
They queried what limit our service deems as suitable to apply a default as theyre expected 
to take learnings from our decisions. They explained the monthly payments Mrs C made of 
£416.22 wasnt enough to clear the arrears of £112.66 to bring the account up to date.
And that the letters they sent showed the outstanding balance on the account at the time 
and this balance increases as further payments become due. They dont feel the letters 
should be read in isolation and out of context, nor do they agree that they gave the 
impression that the contractual monthly payments would clear the arrears or stop the default.
And if they did, as I suggested, in my provisional decision and used the contractual monthly 
payments to clear the arrears each month and effectively restart the debt chase each month, 
then the account could potentially stay in arrears indefinitely which goes against the 
guidance and expectations set out by the FCA and ICO.
They asked what action we wouldve expected them to take when the account was in arrears 
for a prolonged period and Mrs C wasnt responding to them. They explained they had no 
way of knowing that Mrs C would eventually respond and feel it was the confirmation of the 
default which prompted her to get in touch. They said Mrs C had benefitted from the default 
as interest has stop being applied.
They felt the provisional decision goes against what our service have previously said and 
asked for a final decision to be published so other lenders are made aware of our 
expectations and can also take learnings. 
Mrs C didnt respond within the deadline given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to clarify that in reaching my decision here, Ive only considered the 
circumstances of Mrs Cs complaint and not the outcome weve reached on other cases. 
Sainsburys Bank will already be aware that we make decisions that are fair and reasonable 
on a case-by-case basis.
The comments Sainsburys Bank have made arent new and Id already considered them 
when reaching my provisional decision. So, I dont intend to respond or address each point 
raised.
Ultimately, it boils down to two things here:
1. What do the terms and conditions of the agreement say about how payments will be 
allocated? 
2. What did the default notice require Mrs C to do to remedy the breach?
As explained in my provisional decision, the terms and conditions of the agreement says that 
Sainsburys Bank will use Mrs Cs payments to repay any amounts in arrears first then 
towards any monthly payments which are due. This means Sainsburys Bank shouldve used the monthly contractual payments Mrs C 
made to clear the arrears on her account first  even if this re-started the debt cycle as 
theyve mentioned. This is what they have set out in their terms and conditions on how theyll 
allocate payments received. 
The notice of default Sainsburys Bank sent to Mrs C on 2 November 2020 said:
You agreed under your loan agreement that you would pay each monthly payment 
in full on its due date, as well as any late payment fees and additional arrears 
interest. Because you have missed payments you are now in breach of your loan 
agreement and the arrears of monthly instalments, late payment fees, and additional 
arrears interest amounting to £143.74 are now due and outstanding.
It explained what Mrs C needed to do:
To remedy the breach and put things right, you must pay the total arrears of £143.74 
before 29 November 2020
IF THE ACTION REQUIRED BY THIS NOTICE IS TAKEN BEFORE THE DATE 
SHOWN NO FURTHER ENFORCEMENT ACTION WILL BE TAKEN IN RESPECT 
OF THE BREACH.
Im satisfied Mrs C made a payment of £412.66 to Sainsburys Bank on 27 November 2020. 
While she made this payment as part of her contractual monthly payment, it was the 
responsibility of Sainsburys Bank to ensure they allocated the payment correctly towards 
clearing Mrs Cs arrears first which is in line with the terms and conditions of the agreement.
The action required by the default notice was for Mrs C to pay Sainsburys Bank £143.74 by 
29 November 2020. I dont agree that the default notice should be read in conjunction with 
other letters. 
I dont think its reasonable to somehow understand from the default notice that a default 
would still be applied if the arrears and the contractual payment for that month wasnt made. 
To the contrary, the default notice says no further action will be taken if Mrs C made a 
payment of £143.74 before the date on the notice.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 section 89 says:
Compliance with default notice.
If before the date specified for that purpose in the default notice the debtor or hirer 
takes the action specified under section 88(1)(b) or (c) the breach shall be treated as 
not having occurred.
This means, if Mrs C took the action specified in the notice of default  in this case, to pay 
£143.74 before 29 November 2020, then Sainsburys Bank shouldnt apply the default as 
they should treat the breach of the loan agreement as remedied.
As explained, Im satisfied Mrs C took the action required by the default notice and therefore 
had remedied the breach of her loan agreement. Had Mrs C failed to make the payment on 
27 November 2020, then its likely Sainsburys Bank wouldve been right to apply the default 
on her credit file.But given that Mrs C paid more than the amount required by the default notice, and the 
allocation of payment term within the terms and conditions say that payments will be 
allocated to arrears first, Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank didnt apply the default fairly.
Sainsburys Bank have made the point that Mrs C has benefited from the interest stopping 
following the default. I agree Mrs C shouldnt have a financial benefit as a result of this 
situation. 
Therefore, as I proposed in my provisional decision, Sainsburys Bank should allow Mrs C to 
continue repaying the loan as per the original terms and conditions. This means Sainsburys 
Bank can apply any interest which Mrs C wouldve been liable for under the agreement, had 
the account not been defaulted.
I appreciate Sainsburys Bank want clarification about what limits they should set before 
defaulting an account, and on what further steps they shouldve taken in a situation like this. 
Specifically, where the account was in arrears for a prolonged period, but Mrs C wasnt 
responding.
Sainsburys Bank are entitled to decide their own limits for applying a default and steps to 
take to recover arrears. But this doesnt mean that the limit they set or steps they take would 
be fair in every case. Depending on the circumstances, it might be disproportionate, and Ive 
found it to be the case here as Ive explained in my provisional decision.
While Mrs C didnt respond to the calls or letters from Sainsburys Bank, she did continue 
making the contractual payments towards the account. So, the relationship between the two 
parties wasnt broken down as Sainsburys Bank have said. 
Overall, Im satisfied with the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision and I havent 
changed my mind on how this complaint should be resolved.
To put things right, Sainsburys Bank should:
Remove the default from Mrs Cs credit file;
Allow Mrs C to continue repaying the loan under the original terms and conditions;
Pay Mrs C £80 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, if they 
havent already done so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Sainsburys Bank Plc should put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman