DRN-3341805
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim they made 
on their legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to Aviva include their claims handlers.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr and Mrs R made a claim on their Aviva legal expenses insurance policy 
for cover to defend a claim against them in trespass. 
The claim arose out of some work they employed a builder to do which involved replacing 
the boundary fence. In doing so Mr and Mrs R said the builder placed the fence closer to 
their property rather than in its original position on the boundary line. When they wanted to 
reinstate the boundary to its previous position their neighbours objected and threatened 
proceedings.
Aviva appointed a panel firm (Firm A) to consider the merits of Mr and Mrs Rs claim in 
accordance with the policy terms. But shortly after Firm A was appointed Mrs R complained 
to Aviva that the person with conduct of the matter  a Paralegal- wasnt suitably qualified to 
consider her claim. She also said he refused to look at all the evidence available which led to 
funding being refused on the basis that it didnt have the requisite prospects of success. 
Instead she asked Aviva to appoint another solicitor to assess the claim. Aviva consented to 
this request and appointed another panel firm (Firm B) to assess the claim. 
During Firm Bs appointment Mrs R raised various concerns about their handling of her claim 
with Aviva and in February 2021 Mrs R asked Aviva to instruct another solicitor for her. Aviva 
agreed and allowed Mrs R to instruct a solicitor of her own choice.
Mrs R was unhappy with how her claim had been handled by Firms A and B so complained 
to Aviva about this as well as Avivas handling of her claim more generally. Aviva didnt 
uphold Mrs Rs complaint so the matter was brought to us to consider.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. She said that Aviva had appointed 
suitably experienced legal professionals in accordance with their policy terms. She also said 
we couldnt look at the actions of the panel firms specifically as they were separate 
organisations with their own rules and procedures. Instead she considered the actions of 
Aviva in handling Mrs Rs concerns. She concluded that Aviva had treated her fairly in the 
circumstances.
Mrs R doesnt agree. Shes raised several objections to the investigators view which I have 
summarised below. Because of this the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Aviva shouldnt have appointed a Paralegal to consider her claim when it instructed 
Firm A;
The Paralegal gave her the wrong information about the disclosure of expert 
evidence which led to her incurring significant financial losses;
The Financial Ombudsmans decision should be paused until the Legal 
Ombudsmans decision about the conduct of Firm A and possibly B has been issued;
 Aviva didnt treat her fairly by not making reasonable adjustments for her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill go on to explain why  
under the headings below for ease of reference. But before I do, I want to assure them Ive 
considered everything theyve said about their complaint and reviewed all the documents 
theyve sent in. Ive also had the opportunity to listen to recordings of Mrs Rs telephone calls 
with this Service. I know Mrs R wanted to discuss her complaint with me, but Im satisfied 
that I have everything I need to decide this complaint without this being necessary. 
Avivas actions in relation to Firm A
As our investigator explained, Im not able to comment on the quality of the legal services 
and advice provided by Solicitors- thats a matter for the Legal Ombudsman and one I 
understand that Mr and Mrs R have referred to have considered. What I can comment on is 
Avivas actions in relation to any complaints by Mr and Mrs R about the firms they appointed.
After Firm A was appointed they carried out an assessment of the merits of Mr and Mrs Rs 
claim. They said it didnt have over 51% prospects of success as required by the policy. Mrs 
R was unhappy with this as well as several other issues. I can see from the items shes 
provided that she initially addressed this with Firm A directly and they took some steps to try 
to resolve things for her by arranging a further review of the merits of her complaint by a 
Partner. But the assessment of merits remained the same so Mrs R complained to Aviva. On 
receipt of this complaint Aviva referred her claim to Firm B- which gave her the benefit of a 
fresh assessment. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs R provided anything that showed the 
merits of their claim were over 51% when making this request. That would usually be what 
an insurer would expect to see before referring matters to another panel firm. In this case, 
Aviva didnt ask for any evidence to show the assessment reached by Firm A was wrong so I 
think they did more than wed expect them to do here by appointing another panel firm. 
I know Mrs R is dissatisfied by the fact that a Paralegal initially assessed her complaint but I 
dont think there was anything wrong with that as long as the Paralegal was working under 
the supervision of a suitably qualified lawyer with experience in boundary disputes. The final 
response letter provided by Firm A in response to Mrs Rs complaint to them sets out that 
the assessment of the claim was sent out after it was considered by an experienced 
Supervisor, who I understand has suitable experience. It was also considered by a Partner 
who concluded the assessment was correct. I know Mrs R doesnt agree with that and is 
unhappy that the supervising lawyer didnt contact her directly but I dont think that means 
Aviva did anything wrong. 
Mrs R was also unhappy that she was advised by the Paralegal that he couldnt obtain a 
copy of Trading Standards boundary surveyors report. As Ive said above, I cant comment 
on the quality of advice given to Mr and Mrs R in respect of their claim save to say that I can 
see Firm A told Mrs R that they did request a copy of this report from Trading Standards but were told it was unavailable because a final report hadnt been prepared- only a draft. 
Whether thats not right is a matter for the Legal Ombudsman and not one I can comment 
on. Either way I havent seen anything to say this advice led to any significant problems with 
Mr and Mrs Rs claim such that Aviva could have avoided, particularly because they 
appointed Firm B to consider the claim immediately after receiving a complaint about Firm A. 
It's also of note that when appointing Firm B, Aviva ensured that a Solicitor with suitable 
experience was instructed to consider Mr and Mrs R s claim, which I think was good 
customer service given their earlier dissatisfaction about the involvement of a Paralegal. 
Avivas actions in relation to Firm B
There came a time where Mr and Mrs R became unhappy with Firm B. Mrs R made several 
complaints to Aviva about this and eventually asked for her own choice of solicitor to be 
appointed. Despite concerns about the proportionality of the claim, Aviva agreed to this. And 
I can see they asked Firm B to look into Mrs Rs complaints and respond directly to her 
where appropriate. They also responded to Mrs Rs correspondence within their service 
standards, where possible.
I say where possible because there came a point where Mrs R was sending Aviva several 
emails each day and requesting immediate responses. Avivas service standards didnt 
require them to respond in this way and I wouldnt reasonably expect a business to do so. 
Given the volume of correspondence they were receiving I think Aviva responded 
appropriately and as best they could to Mrs R.
Discrimination
Mrs R feels that Aviva failed to make reasonable adjustments in relation to her health 
conditions which she says meant that any contact with her should be by phone.
The duty to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010 (the Act) only 
applies to those who have a disability, as defined by the Act. 
We dont have the power to make findings about whether someone has been discriminated 
against or whether the Act has been breached; only a court can do that.
But when considering whether Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably, I am required to take 
into account relevant law. And for the purpose of this decision, even if Mrs Rs conditions 
amount to disabilities (which I make no finding on) and the Act is a relevant consideration, I 
think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in the way it has communicated with Mrs R. 
I note that Mrs R didnt tell Aviva about the health conditions she has from until the end of 
July by email. So whilst she did ask for phone contact before that time she didnt tell them 
why. Aviva have said they couldnt respond by phone before this because of the way in 
which their remote working had been set up following the spread of Covid-19 requiring staff 
to work from home. I dont think this was unfair. Businesses were adapting to unprecedented 
working situations. And Mrs R was still sending emails and receiving responses from Aviva 
between March and the end of July 2020.
When Mrs R did tell Aviva about her health conditions, Aviva agreed to contact her by 
phone. But they also continued to correspond with her by email. I think this was reasonable 
for several reasons; Firstly, Mrs R herself was continuing to correspond with Aviva and 
replying to them by email herself. She also sent a considerable volume of emails to Aviva, 
sometimes several times a day. Given the volume of correspondence, I think it was 
reasonable for Aviva to set out some of their responses in writing so they could take stock of all the issues and respond to them appropriately. Secondly, I can see that when Mrs R did 
have calls with Aviva, they tended to last for over an hour and, on the whole, were 
unproductive. I can see for example that it was often difficult for Aviva to explain the state of 
play to Mrs R during the course of a call. So, I can see why Aviva thought it was best to 
confirm things to her in writing- particularly so both parties had a record of where things 
stood and so Aviva could ensure it could communicate what it wanted to say to Mrs R.  
Finally, I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs R couldnt read the emails Aviva was 
sending. So whilst I appreciate that she might not have wanted to email Aviva because of 
one of her health conditions, it doesnt look like she was disadvantaged by receiving emails 
from them. And in any event I havent seen anything that suggests Aviva required her to only 
correspond by email with her from August 2020.
I know Mrs R wanted a meeting with Aviva at one point, which Aviva declined. I dont think 
this was unreasonable. There was nothing specific about Mrs Rs circumstances which 
meant she could only communicate in person. And Aviva had given Mrs R considerable time 
by telephone to put everything she wanted to them, so I dont think they treated her unfairly 
by declining this request.
Costs 
I understand that Mr and Mrs R are concerned about the level of costs Firm B incurred on 
their claim and the impact this would have on their level of indemnity. I appreciate why they 
might be concerned about this but I think Aviva did what wed expect them to do to ensure 
the costs incurred were reasonable and in line with their policy terms. Thats because they 
appointed a cost assessor to consider those sums and decide whether they were reasonably 
incurred. If Mr and Mrs R wish to challenge those costs theyll need to appoint their own cost 
assessor at their own cost to consider them and provide a contrary assessment. Until that 
happens, I wouldnt expect Aviva to do anything further. 
Why this decision has been issued without reference to The Legal Ombudsmans decision
I know Mrs R was concerned that this decision should be issued after The Legal 
Ombudsman has issued its findings about her complaints about Firm A. But as I explained 
above, Im not able to look at the same things The Legal Ombudsman does because I cant 
consider the actions of Solicitors. They have their own separate rules and procedures. I can 
only consider the actions of Aviva. Ive now done that based on everything both parties have 
provided me with, which I know will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs R, but I hope Ive clearly 
explained why.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against Aviva 
Insurance Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman