DRN-4200380
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied through a hire purchase 
agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes Benz 
Financial Services (MBFS). 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr C acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. 
The cash price of the car was £62,131. The total amount financed on the agreement was 
£62,131 payable over 48 monthly repayments of £991, with a final optional purchase 
payment of £30,975.
In November 2022 Mr C said he noticed there were handling issues when turning corners. 
Mr C said he took the car to a manufacturer garage in January 2023 who told him it was a 
known issue and was advised to fit new tyres. Mr C said he sought a second opinion where 
he was advised the problem couldnt be fixed. 
In March 2023 Mr C complained to MBFS and requested a rejection of the car. MBFS issued 
their final response and didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. MBFS said the problem was a 
characteristic of the car which didnt impact the safety of it, so they couldnt support a 
rejection. However, they gave Mr C the option to have an independent inspection carried out 
to investigate the issue further. Mr C confirmed to our investigator that he didnt accept it.
Unhappy with MBFS decision Mr C brought his complaint to our service for investigation. Mr 
C told our investigator that he felt the car was unsafe to drive, that he was told there the 
issue has been fixed for newer models, and that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 hes 
entitled to reject the car. 
Having reviewed all the information on file our investigator recommended that Mr Cs 
complaint should not be upheld. Our investigator concluded that although there was a 
confirmed characteristic of the car, he didnt consider it was a fault or safety issue as there 
was no evidence to support it.
Mr C didnt accept our investigators view. He said he believed the car wasnt of a satisfactory 
standard from the point of supply, and so he asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. MBFS is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
Here, the car was acquired new, with a cash price of around £62,000. So, I think its fair to 
say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher than a second 
hand, more road-worn car and that it could be used  free from defects  for a considerable 
period of time
From the information provided Im persuaded that there is a characteristic, which impacts the 
handling of Mr Cs car when turning of full lock. This is apparent from What Mr C has told us, 
from what has been confirmed by MBFS in their final response and on the invoice from the 
manufacturer garage, that Mr C provided to us.
However, just because there is a confirmed characteristic which causes Mr C some concern, 
doesnt mean the car is of unsatisfactory quality. Ive considered whether any discomfort for 
Mr C in relation to the characteristic, goes beyond what a reasonable person would consider 
to be satisfactory. Ive also considered whether the characteristic renders the car unsafe.
My findings are based on the particular circumstances of this complaint and specific situation 
concerning Mr Cs car.
In his complaint form, Mr C said that he was experiencing handling issues with the car. He 
said it occurred whilst turning corners and would make the car uncomfortable and unsafe to 
drive. The manufacturer garage sales invoice dated 1 March 2023, advised that the tyres 
and steering knuckle was causing the issue that Mr C was experiencing. It went on to advise 
it couldnt be fully rectified as the knuckle couldnt be replaced on the model of car that Mr C 
had. 
In their final response MBFS have said the issue being experienced by Mr C was a known 
characteristic on the type of car Mr C owned. They said:
I can confirm the skipping sensation that you are experiencing is not uncommon with our  
vehicles. Please be assured that this is not a safety risk and is a normal characteristic. This 
sometimes occurs in colder weather and when manoeuvring at low speeds
Both parties are in agreement that a characteristic exists, however MBFS said in their final 
response that the safety of the car is not compromised in any way. I acknowledge what 
theyve said here, however I dont think that was following a detailed and specific inspection 
or investigation into Mr Cs vehicle. MBFS were providing commentary on the known 
characteristic with vehicles of the same make and model to Mr Cs. Although I think its likely 
Mr C has been experiencing the same known issue, Ive had to consider that Mr Cs may 
have other factors that is impacting his driving experience. For example, that a further issue 
exists which makes Mr Cs driving experience beyond reasonable.Mr C said hed brought his car into a manufacture garage on two occasions for them to look 
into the issue. And although Mr C has provided an invoice which states the problem couldnt 
be rectified, it doesnt say the quality is unsatisfactory or that driving the vehicle poses a 
safety risk.
Ive not seen any further evidence that comments on the severity of the issue, for example in 
the form of a specialist investigation report, or a video of the juddering demonstrating the 
scale of the issue.
In their final response MBFS offered Mr C the option of having an independent inspection 
carried out. However, Mr C declined this because he felt hed already given MBFS sufficient 
opportunity to fix the issue. I acknowledge Mr Cs strength of feeling about this, but without 
any specific evidence to show the severity of the issue thats impacting Mr Cs driving 
experience, theres nothing which evidences whether the vehicle has some other issue or 
whether the characteristic is disproportionately impacting Mr Cs safety and comfort. So, all 
things considered and from the information provided, Im persuaded that the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr C.
I acknowledge the supporting information Mr C brought to our attention in the form of a 
previous decision that was reached, on what appears to be a similar case to Mr Cs. Each 
case brought to our service is considered on their own merits, and it wouldnt be appropriate 
for me to comment on the specific details of another case. However, its likely the case in 
question isnt identical to that of Mr Cs in relation to the specific issues raised, or the type of 
evidence that was provided.
As Ive concluded that the car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied, I dont 
require MBFS to take any action in respect of this complaint. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial Services 
UK Limited trading as Mercedes Benz Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman