DRN-2574463
The complaint
Miss D is complaining that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) were irresponsible and 
provided her unaffordable lending through her credit card account with them. 
What happened
Miss D applied for a Tesco credit card online in June 2015. Tesco have said that the initial 
credit limit was for £2,600, then in April 2017 the limit was increased to £3,500 and it was 
increased again in April 2018 to £4,500.
Unfortunately, Tesco have told us that in 2019 Miss D informed them she had lost her job 
and got into financial difficulties. They set up a payment plans with her, but this fell into 
arrears. After this, when her account was placed on a hardship plan for 6 months with 
reduced payments, Tesco recognised Miss D was in longer term financial difficulty so they 
placed her account in default, meaning no future fees or interest would be charged. 
Miss D has told us that she was experiencing financial difficulties when she took out her card 
and believes that if Tesco had checked her credit file, they would not have lent to her. 
An investigator here investigated the complaint and decided that Tesco had done nothing 
wrong. Miss D has asked for a review of that. She feels the figures quoted for her income 
are wrong, and that she never asked for a credit limit increase (Tesco have said that the first 
increase was requested by the customer proactively).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the CONC rules and regulations in place at the time, in forming my view 
on whether Miss D was treated fairly by Tesco.
  
The rules are not specific about what checks a lender must carry out but are very much 
focused on what is a proportionate check. This is about weighing up how much detail a 
lender should check, based on the customer circumstances and the amount of lending they 
are potentially going to offer to them.
Alongside looking at the checks Tesco have told us they carried out, Miss D has provided us 
with some bank statements from the time she took the credit card and the times the credit 
increases happened. This also allows me to see what her general day to day finances 
looked like around this time, to help decide whether the lending was unaffordable for her. 
With regards to checks Tesco carried out, they have said that when opening the account, 
Miss D told them her income was £9,500 per annum or around £800 per month, and that the 
credit reference agency checks they requested showed some unsecured debts, mostly on 
one credit card, of around £5,500. There was a loan but only with one payment left at the 
time.
 
They have said these checks also confirmed no issues or concern with bankruptcy or CCJs, 
and that Miss Ds score both with the credit reference agency, and Tescos internal system, 
came back as fine to lend. Miss D has said she had been refused credit elsewhere, but 
Tesco have said the checks highlighted only 1 other credit search in the previous 6 months, 
so they had no concerns about multiple applications for credit.  
If I cross reference with Miss Ds bank statement from the time, I can see a payment to one 
credit card, the card that she has mentioned to us. There are no other payments that appear 
to be for lending. 
Miss Ds income includes earnings from her job, child tax credits, income support, and child 
benefit. On top of this Miss D told us that further payments into her account from the father 
of her children were for child support and towards paying for the existing credit card. Her 
income without the payments for child support/credit card was higher than Tesco say she 
disclosed in her application. Her account had a small overdraft limit which she remained 
within for the month we have a statement for, April/May 2015. 
Neither party has provided an actual credit file from the time to review. Miss Ds bank 
statements do not show anything which I feel should have concerned Tesco. They knew she 
had another credit card and assessed the new card was affordable to her. Miss D has 
mentioned having high credit limits on the other card and some store cards, which meant 
that Tesco should have had concerns about the amount of money she could borrow. 
However, neither party has provided any evidence of this. 
On balance, I am satisfied that Tesco carried out proportionate checks before opening the 
card for Miss D in 2015, and that if they had more information, such as her bank statements, 
this wouldnt have meant they should make a different decision. I am satisfied that the offer 
of a card with a £2600 credit limit was fair at the time, and affordable to Miss D, based on the 
evidence available.
For the credit limit increases, Tesco have said that one was proactively requested by Miss D, 
and one was not. However, they have provided no evidence of this, and Miss D says she 
would not have asked for an increase. Tesco have also confirmed that as per industry 
guidelines, any offer of an increase would be optional, and the customer could decline it. 
Whether the credit limit increases were offered by Tesco, or requested by Miss D, the same 
proportionate checks would need to be carried out by Tesco. So, I dont think it matters in 
this instance whether the increase was requested or offered. I will focus on the evidence we 
have to see whether the increases offered were fair, and affordable for Miss D. 
In both instances (2017 and 2018), Tesco have said that their internal credit scoring now 
included their own data on her card use.  And the external credit reference agency data 
scores were similar to their original checks in 2015. Again, on neither occasion were any 
defaults, CCJs or bankruptcies evident. The account had been used within its limits to that 
point, and there was no evidence of any other credit searches carried out on Miss Ds file at 
these times.
If I look at Miss Ds bank statements in 2017, they are very similar to 2015. There is similar 
income, similar outgoings, and no further debts or payments of concern are evident. In 2018, 
things have changed slightly, although income is still broadly around the same level, as are 
outgoings. There is an unpaid transaction charge from the previous month showing on the statement, and a small payment to a store card, as well as payments to the 2 credit cards as 
before.
 
Whilst this shows her finances in 2018 were slightly different than previous years 
statements, these differences werent significant. I dont believe that the information on the 
bank statements would, or should, have changed Tescos decision to offer the credit limit 
increases in both 2017 and 2018. 
The final thing I have checked is Miss Ds use of the Tesco card. She incurred several late 
payment fees, but these wouldnt on their own be a cause for concern. She was not using 
the full credit limit of the card, and most months was paying off far more than the minimum 
payments. The late fees would appear to be an admin issue, in not remembering to make 
the payments at the correct time. 
Miss D has said that money transfers, which appear on many of her statements, were her 
paying one credit card with the other. This doesnt seem to match up with her bank 
statements however. As an example, in her last bank statement provided from 2018, there 
are 3 separate payments from her bank account to her Tesco card totalling £450, which 
match all the payments to her card on the statements at that time. Theres no money coming 
into her bank account from another account or card; just the same earnings, benefits and 
payments from her ex-partner. There is also a £300 payment to her other credit card from 
her bank account that month. 
Alongside this, the Tesco card was still being used. I cant see any evidence that Tesco 
should have been aware of, to indicate Miss D was in financial difficulties. The card 
appeared to be used monthly, and payments well above the minimum required payments 
were being made. In 2018 the balance owing on the card increased quite quickly to over 
£3000 in February 2018, but by December 2018, this figure was still broadly similar. Whilst 
the jump in the amount of money owing is unexplained, the debt was being serviced 
consistently, and I dont think this would have made the increased credit limit in 2018 
inappropriate or unfair to Miss D.
 
I sympathise with Miss D as she has lost her job in 2019 and fallen into financial difficulties. 
But in assessing the lending Tesco provided to her, I must look at the decisions made in 
2015, 2017 and 2018. I am satisfied that Tesco carried out proportionate, reasonable checks 
on each occasion. And I am satisfied that the additional evidence available to me now, which 
Tesco didnt check at the time, would not and should not have altered the decision to lend or 
increase the credit limit. Miss D was able to afford the lending at the time, and it is 
unfortunate that circumstances in 2019 have left her in financial difficulties. 
Im satisfied that Tesco carried out proportionate and fair checks before lending to Miss D, 
and the lending was not irresponsible. I wont be asking Tesco to do anything further.  
My final decision
I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2021
. 
Paul Cronin
Ombudsman