DRN-3577804
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC Bank UK Plc (HSBC) have unfairly refused to refund over 
£9,800 she spent on her credit card as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mrs S authorised the disputed payments she made to the various 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms using her HSBC credit card (where her funds were 
subsequently transferred on to the scammer Neo-chain from these crypto accounts). 
The payments were requested by her using her legitimate security credentials provided 
by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the instructions given by 
their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mrs S from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mrs S has lost almost £10,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over seven separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not 
have appeared particularly unusual or out of character to have been spent on a credit 
card. So, Im not persuaded they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or 
indicating that she might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam.
I also acknowledge there were occasions where more than one payment was made in 
the same day to a crypto platform, such as two payments being made to Cryptonet on 
2 September 2020. However, by this point, Mrs S had already made several payments to 
crypto platforms from her credit card. So, by the time she came to make these payments 
to Cryptonet, this wouldnt have been regarded as unusual. I acknowledge that a series 
of payments being made in the same day to the same payee can often be indicative of a 
scam. But I dont consider the two payments made to Cryptonet on 2 September 2020 to 
reasonably constitute a suspicious series of payments that ought to have prompted an 
intervention by HSBC.
So, having considered the payments Mrs S made to the crypto platforms, Im not 
persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered HSBCs fraud 
monitoring systems, or that would have indicated she was in the process of being 
scammed. 
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mrs S reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via the 
bank raising a chargeback dispute or a section 75 claim, for example. However, in these 
circumstances, Mrs S used her credit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platforms 
before the funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, she wouldnt be 
able to make a successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the 
companies she has paid have seemingly provided the services as intended (i.e. the 
purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do not think HSBC were under any obligation 
to raise a chargeback claim for Mrs S.
In terms of a potential claim being made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974, the Act requires there to be a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in order for a 
successful claim to be made. However, in these circumstances, the recipient of the funds 
was the crypto platforms; it was not Neo-chain as the supplier. And given theres no 
evidence (such as representation documents or declarations of deposit) to demonstrate 
that the payments were made to Neo-chain from Mrs Ss credit card, there is therefore 
no valid debtor-creditor-supplier agreement, and neither is there a transaction that has 
been financed by that agreement in these circumstances. As a result, any section 75 
claim would have likely failed, so I do not think HSBC have acted unreasonably by failing 
to pursue such a claim either.
I also appreciate Mrs S is unhappy with the way HSBC handled her chargeback claim. I 
understand it would have been frustrating for her as she failed to receive updates and 
clarification on what was required of her. But HSBC has apologised for this, and given a 
chargeback claim would not have likely been successful in any event (for the reasons 
explained above), I dont consider the bank needs to take any further action here.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs S, and Im sorry to hear she has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman