DRN-3400786
The complaint
Mr J complains that Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd (Herts) took additional funds despite 
him already paying the premium for his car insurance. 
What happened
Mr J used an online comparison website to buy car insurance. Mr J says he was given a 
price which he accepted and was paid for by his relative. Mr J says his relative then 
contacted him to let him know an additional amount had been taken out of their account.    
Mr J says he never received any prior notification of this so he contacted Herts who 
explained two letters had been sent to him letting him know a further payment would be 
taken as they had to make a change to his details after discovering some information 
provided previously was incorrect. 
Mr J complained to Herts and they responded and explained Mr Js information had been 
entered on a comparison website and he was offered car insurance based on the 
information being correct. They said, on reviewing documents sent by Mr J, they noted the 
purchase date of Mr Js car entered on the comparison website was incorrect. They said, 
when they corrected this, an additional premium of £151.82 was levied by the underwriter of 
the policy. Herts explained, having not received any response to two letters sent in 
September, this amount was then debited from the last used payment method. 
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr J. He thought Herts hadnt acted unreasonably in 
charging Mr J an additional amount. Mr J disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr J will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. If I havent commented on 
any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.   
Ill start off by saying, I can see Mr J has made requests to be provided with information our 
service has received  and I can see our investigator has sent this to Mr J. I understand Mr J 
has asked for some further information and this relates to his concern with the investigation. 
I wish to reassure Mr J that my decision follows a complete review of his complaint, our 
investigation and all information received.  
Charging an additional premium and taking payment 
I think its important to first clarify Herts role in this case. Herts are acting as an insurance 
broker and their Terms of Business sets out their responsibilities, which includes 
administering the policy and helping out with any ongoing changes a customer wants to 
make. However, an insurer sets the premium. Herts have provided information which shows 
one of the questions asked by the comparison website was the date of purchase of Mr Js 
car  and this was entered as 1 March 2016. Herts have provided a screenshot of a page 
which they say is displayed during the sale journey  this says they will carry out verification 
checks. 
A Statement of Insurance was also sent to Mr J which says This is the information that you 
have provided to us when applying for your policy. It is very important that you check that it 
is complete and accurate. If it isnt, please tell your insurance advisor and we will correct and 
re-issue it. If any information on this document is not complete and accurate:...we may revise 
the premium The Statement of Insurance shows the date of purchase of Mr Js car as 1 
March 2016. Herts reviewed the further information as part of their verification checks and 
noted the date of purchase of Mr Js car was March 2017  so the information previously 
given wasnt correct.     
I can see Herts then wrote to Mr J in September 2019 letting him know theyd corrected the 
date of purchase and this led to an increase in the premium of £151.82. Herts explained this 
payment is now due and Mr J can call them with a debit or credit card for payment otherwise 
it will be debited from the account linked to the last selected payment method. A further letter 
is sent by Herts in September which says they havent heard back from Mr J, so the 
additional premium is now due. They say the £151.82 is being debited from the last payment 
method used. It then says If you are not the account holder, it is your duty to make the 
holder of the account aware of this letter and pending debit. They ask Mr J to contact them 
if he has any queries. Having not heard back, this payment is then debited from the account 
used to pay the original premium. 
I note Mr J says he didnt receive the letters from Herts in September and these were sent to 
him retrospectively. Its unfortunate if Mr J didnt receive both letters but Ive seen the letters 
and theyre addressed correctly so I cant hold Herts responsible if they werent received. 
The letters set out a contemporaneous account of what was happening at the time, so I 
believe they were sent on the date contained on the letters. 
I note Mr J queries how the date of purchase of his car would be a material factor impacting 
the price of his premium. Generally, insurers are allowed to set the premium that they wish 
to charge for accepting a certain risk. When calculating insurance premiums insurers will 
take a number of factors into consideration; for example - the consumers age or occupation. 
They will also consider details about the thing that theyre insuring, such as the model of car. 
All these factors will affect the price of a consumers policy. An insurer will decide what 
factors to take into account and how much weight to put on each of them. In addition to this, 
Herts Terms of Business says, Your insurer may make a charge for any amendment or 
cancellation made to your policy in addition to any increase in premium and our midterm 
adjustment fee.
In this case, its clear the date of purchase was a factor the insurer took into account, and 
this then led to an increase in the premium after the details were corrected. Herts say, in 
respect of quotations obtained from the comparison website, until a policy purchase is 
completed, they have no access to any of the information, so amendments can only be 
made by the customer. So, I cant say the premium increase has arisen out of an error on 
the part of Herts. 
Herts didnt originally enter the incorrect details. And, given that information about the date of 
purchase of Mr Js car was incorrect, I think it was right and proper for Herts to amend the 
details relating to the date of purchase as this reflects the correct position and also allows 
the insurer to base the premium on accurate information. This led to an increase in the 
premium, but the Terms of Business does set this out as a possibility. 
I note Mr J is unhappy Herts debited the amount of the additional premium from his relatives 
account. Herts Terms of Business says, Your debit/credit card information will be replaced by a secure token so we can use the same card to take payments for automatic renewals 
and to pay or refund other premiums that may become due upon changes to the policy. In 
addition to this, the letters sent to Mr J in September do make it clear what steps Herts will 
take to claim the additional premium  and the steps they then took are in line with the 
Terms of Business. So, while I acknowledge Mr Js relative will have been shocked to see 
£151.82 being debited from their account, I cant say Herts actions were unreasonable. And, 
I think theyve taken reasonable steps in asking Mr J to let the account holder know about 
the debit if hes not the account holder. I can see Mr J asks for a copy of the regulations or 
Law which allows Herts to debit a third-party account. While I cant specifically point Mr J to 
any legislation around this, the key factor is that the Terms of Business allow Herts to do this 
 and that sets out the agreement between them and Mr J. 
I understand Mr J is concerned Herts offered to refund his relative but then expected 
payment from him. He questions why, if Herts action in debiting the money from his 
relatives account was reasonable, theyre offering to refund it. Ive seen Herts have put this 
proposal to Mr J but they then explain that hell need to pay the balance. In a letter to Mr J 
they say theyre offering this to assist Mr J, so it appears this is in response to Mr Js 
concern about them debiting this money from his relatives account. I think Herts proposal is 
fair given the circumstances and I dont think its an admission theyve made an error. 
I can see Mr J refers to a letter sent by Herts to him in November which says theyre looking 
into the amendments made. This says Herts are looking into where they got the March 2017 
date from and they apologise for their mistake. Mr J queries why Herts took the additional 
premium in October if their enquiries were still ongoing. It appears this letter was sent in 
error because Herts write again a week later confirming they got the March 2017 date from 
the log book. They refer to both letters in September which set out the steps they would be 
taking. So, while I acknowledge why the first letter in November led to Mr J raising a query, 
Herts did clarify the position very soon after and this was no different to the position already 
set out in their previous correspondence. 
Notification of further premiums 
I can see Mr J queries amounts which have been quoted in letters from Herts and hes 
worried further amounts have been debited from his relatives account. I can see Herts have 
clarified this in a letter to Mr J. They say a letter in October 2019 was in relation to the 
change to the purchase date of Mr Js car. I can see this refers to a figure of £121.82 and, 
while I can understand why Mr J questioned this, I wish to reassure him this relates to the 
£151.82 which was debited. Herts have provided a breakdown which shows the increase in 
premium and the insurers administration fee came to £121.82. I can see the Terms of 
Business allow Herts to charge a fee of £30 for making changes to a policy. This arrives at a 
total figure of £151.82  which is the amount debited by them. 
Herts say a further letter in October was sent following a change to Mr Js Home Ownership 
status, but no premium was levied for this. Herts say they cant trace any documents having 
been issued in November showing a premium of £130.13, but I think whats important here is 
that this payment wasnt requested or taken. 
Herts say a further letter was sent in November, which appears to have been issued in error, 
for which they apologise. I can see this letter though refers to the £151.82 which was 
debited. So, I havent seen any evidence of any payments being debited from Mr Js 
relatives account other than the original premium and the £151.82.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman