DRN-1804978
Complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Lloyds Bank PLC trading at the time as Cheltenham and 
Gloucester (Lloyds) mis- sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1998 
alongside a mortgage.
Background
The mortgage was in joint names, but the PPI policy covered Mr J only. The PPI cost £28.50 
and covered Mr J in the event he was off work through accident, sickness or if he lost his 
job. It would have provided the monthly benefit of £413.39 plus an additional amount for up 
to 12 months per successful claim.
Our adjudicator didn't think this was a matter that should be upheld. Mr and Mrs J disagreed 
with this view and asked that their complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.
I realise Mr and Mrs J feel strongly about their matter and I want to assure them I have 
considered everything theyve told me. Having looked carefully at all the evidence, I 
will explain why Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs J an option about buying the policy. Mr and Mrs J say they 
never received the letter enclosing the policy schedule. They say this was incorrectly 
addressed, which explains their lack of knowledge about the policy, when it was taken out, 
who it covered and what the benefits were.
The first thing Ive thought about was whether Mr and Mr J would have known they bought 
the policy and whether they had a choice.
Lloyds has been able to provide some paperwork from the time of the sale. From this I can 
see that there is nothing written on the mortgage application form which might have made 
Mr and Mrs J think they had to take out PPI in order to get their mortgage. 
Lloyds has also provided a copy of the payment protection plus proposal form. This has 
been signed by Mr and Mrs J and dated. I can see that all their personal details have been 
completed on the form and Mr J has chosen to be covered for 100% of the mortgage costs. I 
have also been provided with a copy of the direct debit mandate which has also been signed 
and dated by Mr and Mrs J.
I have carefully considered what Mr and Mrs J have said about the letter enclosing the policy 
schedule being incorrectly addressed and consequently not received. I accept what 
Mr and Mrs J have told me about that. It is possible that Mr and Mrs J never received this letter enclosing the policy schedule. Nevertheless, considering the completed application 
form and the direct debit mandate from the time, I think its more likely Mr and Mrs J 
discussed the PPI with a representative and completed the PPI forms separately to the 
mortgage application to say they wanted the cover. Once the forms had been completed I 
think it likely Mr and Mrs J read the forms they were signing. All in all, I think in 1998 they 
more likely knew they were applying for the insurance in Mr Js sole name. I also think the 
cost of the policy would have appeared on their mortgage statements as a separate entry so 
if they had forgotten they had taken the PPI out, or wanted to question it they could have 
done so at the time. I havent seen evidence that they have done this.
Overall, I think Mr and Mrs J chose the policy at the time knowing they could decline it if they 
didn't want it even if its understandable they cant remember doing so now after such a long 
time.
This policy was taken out in a meeting and Lloyds advised Mr and Mrs J to take it out. This 
put more responsibility on Lloyds for how it sold the policy and meant it had to take 
reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable. It also had to give Mr and Mrs J enough clear 
information, so they could decide for themselves whether they wanted it.
Mr and Mrs J say that the PPI cover wasn't suitable for them. To help me decide if it was 
suitable, Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Js circumstances and thought about the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Mr and Mrs J have told me that at that time the Government paid the full mortgage interest 
repayments for a year if Mr J lost his job. Theyve also told me they had savings of around 
£20,000 which would have covered their mortgage repayments. So theyve explained that 
the policy was a waste of money when the savings and Government help would have been 
enough. But this policy would have paid out in addition to any savings they had, and 
Government help cant be guaranteed as and when its needed as policies can change. This 
insurance would have meant that they wouldn't have had to use Government help. And in 
relation to any savings they had  these savings could have been used, and they might have 
had to turn to them in order to pay other essential expenses if Mr J lost his job or couldn't 
work.
Mr J also told us he had another policy to cover total disability. Mr and Mrs J have kindly 
provided a copy of this insurance certificate. From this I can see that it wouldn't have 
covered Mr and Mrs Js mortgage repayments and would have paid less than the PPI. 
Although its possible that this might have provided some extra cover, I cant say it 
duplicated the PPI cover. It did not in my view make the PPI unsuitable. Any extra cover 
received could have been used to keep Mr and Mrs J's savings intact or for other day to day 
living expenses. So, I still think the PPI was useful if things went wrong.
The PPI policy also paid out in addition to and for longer than any sick pay Mr and Mrs J 
were entitled to. Ive taken into account that the PPI policy covered their mortgage which 
was secured over their home. The consequences of being unable to repay their mortgage 
repayments were serious. If Mr J couldn't work or lost his job, then it would have reduced 
Mr and Mrs Js income substantially. All in all, Im satisfied the PPI was useful to cover the 
mortgage at what no doubt would have been a stressful time financially in the event Mr J 
needed to make a claim.
I can also see Mr J (the person who was covered by the PPI) was eligible for the cover, and 
he wouldn't have been affected by any of the main limitations or exclusions set out in the 
policy which might have made it more difficult to make a claim, for example in relation to a 
pre-existing medical condition or any unusual employment circumstances. So, I cant say the 
PPI was an unsuitable recommendation for these reasons either.Lloyds also had to give clear information so Mr and Mrs J could make an informed choice 
about buying the PPI. It's possible that not all the information was as clear as it could have 
been. But for much the same reasons as Ive set out above as to why I think the PPI was 
suitable, I still think Mr and Mrs J would have bought the policy even with more or better 
information. I think its likely they chose the insurance at the time  so it seems like they 
wanted this type of cover and I still think the policy was useful to them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the insurance.   
This means Lloyds doesn't have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because Lloyds didn't tell 
Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs J have said including what they have said about 
the service they received from Lloyds following their complaint about the mis-sale of the PPI. 
To be clear in this decision I've only looked at the complaint about the mis-sale.
If Mr and Mrs J wish to complain about the service they received since the time of the sale 
they should contact Lloyds in the first instance. Im sorry to disappoint them but for the 
reasons Ive given Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. So, Lloyds Bank PLC does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman