DRN-3258472
The complaint
U, a business partnership, complains that Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity 
Company, is holding it liable for the chargeback of a fraudulent card payment.
What happened
U has a merchant processing agreement with Elavon. On 19 October 2020 it keyed a card 
payment for £540.40. One of the partners phoned Elavon to confirm this. And then gave the 
customer the goods. In January 2021 Elavon told U that a chargeback request had been 
made as the cardholder didnt recognise the payment. And U is unhappy to have been held 
liable for the chargeback.
Elavon said that it had applied the terms of its service agreement with U. And that any 
chargeback request was immediately debited. It was the responsibility of U to ensure that a 
keyed payment was genuine, and these sorts of payments carry the highest risk. Elavon said 
that it had passed the documentation U provided to defend the chargeback to the card 
issuing bank. But that as had happened here it was unlikely that such a case would be found 
in Us favour. Here it was bound by the arrangement with the card issuing banks as an 
intermediary. A partner of U had spoken to one of its agents on 19 October 2020. The agent 
only confirmed that the payment was visible which meant it had been put through Us card 
terminal. Elavon told U in response to its complaint that it had a fraud prevention team which 
could be contacted directly about payments. And it could also provide name and address 
verification. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He reviewed a transcript of 
the call that U had with Elavon that day. The partner had asked of the payment can you 
finish that for me please? and said that The amount, amount is very large, this is, thats 
why I want to confirm before the customer goes... And Elavon said that OK, so I can see 
that transaction, on the batch on this terminal. It is here. The partner asked Its all here 
and Elavon said Yeah it is. The partner took the member of staffs name and a reference 
number for the transaction was provided.
Our investigator said that the partner had asked for the transaction to be completed. It was 
mentioned in the conversation that it was large, and the card was from a bank in a different 
European country. But that seemed to be to help identify it. He appreciated the position of U 
at the time and that it didnt want to turn down the payment but also wanted to confirm it. 
Now it is known that it was fraudulent he appreciated why U thought Elavon could have done 
more at the time. But having referred back to the call he didnt think that there had been 
enough for Elavon to pick up on any concerns. And that the call was interpreted as one in 
which U asked whether the payment was successful. If there had been specific concerns 
about fraud raised hed have expected Elavon to give some guidance.
He appreciated that U said it had tried to take the payment by chip and PIN three times. But 
because it was manually keyed U was responsible for the chargeback here. He understood 
that U thought that the transcript was incomplete, but he had no reason to think that was the 
case. And he thought that U was fairly responsible for this payment.
U didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. U said that Elavon wasnt giving a 
complete account and it didnt accept the transcript. The partner who called asked all sorts of 
questions and told Elavon the concerns. It was the legal duty of Elavon to investigate once it 
knew the payment was manual and that concerns had been raised. Elavon shouldnt be able 
to apply the terms of the agreement as a result and U wanted its money back with interest 
and compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need first to deal with the transcript of the call. Elavon has explained that its calls are 
encrypted and that it cant provide a copy of the recording. It has instead provided a 
transcript. I appreciate U says that this is incomplete. Having read this through Im not 
persuaded that it is most likely that Elavon hasnt provided a transcript to the best if its 
ability.
I say that taking the view that had the partner asked about fraud I think it most likely she 
would have been given different guidance. And told that the payment wasnt guaranteed. But 
the position that day was that an authorisation code had been issued which meant that there 
had been no report of fraud to the genuine cardholders bank at that time. 
U explains it had been trading for some time and had a merchant agreement. I think it was 
reasonably aware of the additional risks of taking a payment without using chip and PIN and 
that this transaction was one out of character for its business. All Elavon told U based on the 
transcript was that the payment had gone through. I dont think it could reasonably see that 
as any guarantee.
Payments taken are subject to possible chargeback. A cardholder has a period of time to 
raise a chargeback. And it isnt Elavon that decides on the outcome but the card issuer. Here 
Elavon forwarded the documentation about the payment that U had collected but this wasnt 
sufficient to defend the chargeback.
Im afraid I think that the terms of Us agreement with Elavon are clear. Any amount charged 
back is immediately due from U. And under Section 12a it states You shall be fully liable to 
Elavon for the amount of any and all Transactions returned to Elavon for whatever reason 
including, Chargebacks... Elavon has also referred to Section 8b which states that When 
presenting any transaction you warrant and represent that iv the use of the Card by the 
Cardholder has been authorised and authenticated by the Cardholder.
It seems that U had some concerns at the time from what it says. I dont think that these 
were raised with Elavon and so that it ought fairly to have done more. Here I think U agreed 
to accept and so bear the risk of this payment under the terms of the agreement. I 
appreciate that with hindsight it regrets taking this payment as it is being held responsible for 
the loss. And I know it will be disappointed when I say that I dont think Elavon has made a 
mistake or acted unfairly. I wont be asking it to do anything more. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman