DRN-3155727
The complaint
Mr G is a sole trader. He complains about the way Santander UK PLC handled his 
application for a Bounce Back Loan.
What happened
Mr G held a business account with Santander. He completed an account switch to a different 
provider in December 2019. Although the account switch was processed, Mr Gs account 
remained open due to a small outstanding debit balance. 
Mr G applied to Santander for a Bounce Back Loan in June 2020. Santander asked Mr G for 
some further information, but when he queried this the bank accepted that it wasnt 
necessary. It paid him £50 compensation for this, which was paid into his Santander 
account. This cleared the debit balance, which triggered the completion of the account 
switch process  and the account was closed. 
Santander was only accepting Bounce Back Loan applications from existing customers who 
ran their business through their Santander account. So once Mr Gs business account was 
closed, the bank told him it couldnt proceed with his Bounce Back Loan application.
Mr G complained. He was particularly unhappy that hed understood the loan application had 
otherwise been approved. Santander said it had investigated to see if there was any way it 
could still support the application, but that there wasnt  as he no longer held an account 
with Santander and the bank wasnt his main business banking provider. 
Mr G referred the matter to us. He wanted Santander to honour the loan it had previously 
agreed.
While the complaint was with us, Santander reviewed things and said that it should have 
explained to Mr G sooner that he wasnt eligible to apply to the bank for a Bounce Back 
Loan. So it offered to pay him £100 compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused.
One of our investigators looked into things and thought that Santander had made a fair offer 
to resolve things. He said it shouldve been obvious from the outset that Mr G wasnt eligible 
for a Bounce Back Loan from Santander  and while the correct decision had been made in 
the end, this shouldve been explained a lot earlier. The banks failure to do so had put Mr G 
to some inconvenience, for which he thought £100 was fair compensation.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. He didnt think that £100 was sufficient to 
compensate him for the stress and anxiety the matter had caused him, particularly bearing in 
mind the difficulties he faced at the time. 
So he asked that an ombudsman review the complaint, and it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely similar 
reasons. Ill explain why in a little more detail. 
Santander was only accepting Bounce Back Loan applications from existing customers who 
ran their business through an account held with it. Lenders had the discretion to decide the 
basis on which they accepted applications, and I dont think this requirement was 
unreasonable. 
This meant that Mr G was never going to be eligible for a Bounce Back Loan with Santander. 
Although he still held an account with the bank when he made his application, he wasnt 
running his business through it. Hed switched to another provider elsewhere six months 
ago. So I dont think the banks decision to decline his application was wrong or 
unreasonable.
Although Mr G was always ineligible for the loan from Santander, I dont think it was an error 
on the banks part that allowed him to apply in the first place. As he still had an account, he 
was potentially eligible and Santander wouldve needed to look into things before it could 
decide otherwise. And the fact he still had an active account wasnt down to an error on the 
banks part either  it was legitimately left open due to an outstanding debit balance.
However, Santander ought to have declined Mr Gs application and confirmed his ineligibility 
much sooner than it did. This couldve happened within a fortnight, as the bank contacted 
Mr G for further information  so it could and should have considered his eligibility before 
doing so. 
As Santander didnt do this, it put Mr G to the avoidable inconvenience of persevering with 
his application and, ultimately, the disappointment at being declined  after an initial 
indication that the loan would be approved.
I dont think it would be fair for me to require Santander to provide the loan now when  
under the banks criteria  Mr G wasnt eligible for it. Even if an agreement had been in 
place, the Bounce Back Loan terms and conditions allow for its termination in certain 
circumstances  and that would be reasonable here, given what Ive said above. But its right 
that Mr G is compensated for the distress and inconvenience that the banks errors caused 
him. 
In this respect, Ive taken into account what Mr G has told us of the stress he was suffering. 
And I do appreciate that, bearing in mind the circumstances of the time, he wouldve been 
particularly anxious to obtain the loan and upset to find that he couldnt obtain it. There was 
also the hassle of dealing with the application for longer than ought to have been necessary. 
At the same time, Ive borne in mind that Mr G was always likely to experience some level of 
disappointment in being turned down by the bank  even if this had happened a little earlier. 
And the bank has already paid him £50 compensation, separately, for the inconvenience 
caused by its request for further information. 
So taking everything into account, I think that the £100 compensation Santander has offered 
to pay Mr G is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused by its 
errors. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK PLC to pay 
Mr G £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman