DRN-3155765
The complaint
Mr S and Ms Bs complaint is about the handling of a claim under their home emergency
insurance cover with Aviva Insurance Limited. Mr S has dealt with the complaint and so I will
refer to him throughout this decision.
Aviva uses agents to deal with claim and complaints on its behalf. For ease of reference, all
references to Aviva in this decision should be read as including those agents.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this matter which set out the background to the complaint 
and my initial findings. I have copied the main part of my provisional decision below: 
In late May 2020, Mr S and Ms B made a claim under the policy as they had a blocked 
toilet. Around six days later, Aviva tried to jet the drains to clear them but said they 
suspected the drain had collapsed further down. Avivas engineer contacted the utility 
company responsible for the waste drains beyond Mr S and Ms Bs property boundary. The 
utility company came out a few days later and said the collapsed drain was within the 
property. Aviva says it carried out suitable excavations and did what it could in liaison with 
the utility company but it could not work on the section of drain outside the property 
boundary as this belongs to the utility company. There was a dispute between Aviva and the 
utility company about the extent of each partys responsibilities, which went on for some 
time. Eventually it was agreed that the section of pipe that had collapsed crossed the 
property boundary. I understand some work was carried out in the meantime, but it was not 
until the end of September 2020 that some agreement was reached between Aviva and the 
utility company about what needed to be done.
Mr S and Ms B are very unhappy with the handling of the claim and have made a number of
submissions, which Ive summarised below:
He continually had to chase Aviva for progress with the claim. For some time there
was no communication and no offer to clear the blocked sewage pipe, which meant
the toilet on their top floor was unusable.
The contractors would turn up without the right equipment.
The excavation was left in a dangerous state with a board left over the hole and with
sewage leaking.
The utility company said the damage was 1.9m within his boundary and Aviva
accepted it was advised the collapsed drain had nearly reached the footpath but
this was therefore still within their boundary (and therefore Avivas responsibility).
Aviva has fabricated evidence, including an email that is supposedly from the utility
company.
The contractors left rubbish in their garden and were rude; and a barrier was thrown
over a potted plant killing the plant and breaking the pot. The maximum fine for litter
is £2,500, so they could have reported this to the authorities.
The earth and rubble that was dug out was left on their lawn for over two months and
has ruined the grass underneath. They will have to pay a garden landscaper to relay
turf, as well as tidy up the whole of the front garden.
Their path and gate were completely ruined and will cost thousands to reinstate.
The whole experience was extremely stressful to the extent that medication and
counselling has been prescribed; and they were unable to have visitors because of
the state of their property.
Aviva accepted it had taken too long to repair the faulty drain and accepts responsibility for
the period from 12 June to 14 August 2020. It also accepts that it did not communicate with
Mr S about the claim as it should have done (specifically the period 12 June to 23 July 2020
and 14  28 September 2020) and that rubbish should not have been left at the property by
its contractors. Aviva offered £500 compensation for this.
Aviva also says, the policy only covers a temporary reinstatement of the site, so it does not
agree it needs to reinstate the grassed area. It had to place the rubble that was dug up
somewhere, it placed it on top of a thick liner (to protect the grassed area as much as
possible) away from the public footpath and it left the excavation safe, so the utility company
could see where the problem was. Aviva says it is only required to fill the excavation to make
it safe and is not responsible for making this good again. However, Aviva agreed to
reimburse Mr S and Ms B the cost of the damaged plant and pot (£40).
Mr S and Ms B say the £500 compensation offered is an insult and think tens of thousands
would be more appropriate.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He thought Avivas offer was reasonable
having taken account of all the circumstances and so did not recommend the complaint be
upheld.
Mr S and Ms B do not accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed
to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Repairs and service provided
There was some initial delay in Aviva attending to the claim, as it did not deem the situation
to be an emergency initially, as it was not the only toilet in the property. There then followed
a lot of back and forth between Aviva and the utility company for some time. This would have
complicated the matter but I can see there was an apparent lack of urgency in progressing
the matter on Avivas part and Mr S had to chase up the claim several times.
Aviva was taking some action and trying to resolve matters throughout the time but it took
until early/mid August 2020 for any meaningful progress to be made, and this was largely
due to delays on Avivas part. Aviva accepts that the delays during the period between
12 June and 14 August 2020 are its responsibility. This is over two months, during which
time Mr S and Ms Bs upstairs toilet was unusable and their garden was in a mess. I can
also see that during this time, Mr S had to chase up Aviva several times and was not kept
up-to-date as he should have been. I have no doubt this would have added to the general
stress and confusion about what was happening at his property. They were entitled to expect
a better service.
Aviva did need to agree with the utility company what was to be done and by whom. If Aviva
had just repaired its part of the pipe, it would not have resolved the problem and it could not
repair the section of pipe that was the utility companys responsibility.Mr S suggests that the whole issue was within his property boundary and was therefore all to
be repaired by Aviva, or that it should have repaired its side before the utility company did
any work on the pipes outside his boundary. He relies on a letter from the utility company
dated 22 September 2020 to support this. The letter says the issue was within your 
boundary and private, found debris, wet wipes and mass of roots and a large void in the 
pipe and that until that section of pipe within the boundary is repaired, the utility company 
will not investigate any of its section of pipework Also we require the private contractor to 
safely reinstate the excavation as currently has been left open without any protection or 
barriers and unsafe for our contractor to work from this chamber.
The utility company also said the excavation done by Aviva was not deep enough and was in
the wrong place.
However, this is disputed by Aviva and was the subject of discussion between the
contractors and the utility company. Aviva says it could not complete its repair without the
utility company doing its repair at the same time. It also says it had dug in the correct place
and deep enough but had started to fill the hole back in.
Mr S also refers to a letter from Aviva which says the dig has almost reached the footpath
and later it also refers to a collapse near the footpath, which he says shows Aviva accepted
the damage was within his boundary. I do not agree this means the collapsed drain was all
within Mr Ss property boundary. The same letter also says the pipe within Mr Ss property
was deliberately broken in order to allow water to escape and that the ground under the
footpath was falling away and unsafe so the pavement needed to be excavated and goes on
to say: I suggest we attend once [the utility company]  have exposed the drain in the
footpath so both parties can repair their sections together.
I also note that following these letters there were further conference calls and emails
between the utility company and Aviva. There was also a joint site visit on 7 October 2020
after which it was agreed that the collapse did start outside the boundary. The utility
company agreed to repair the whole collapsed pipe all at once and it was agreed Aviva
would the backfill the hole.
Given this, I am not persuaded that the entire period to repair the pipe (from May to mid-
October 2020) was due to anything done wrong by Aviva. However, I think it is responsible
for more than the two months it has accepted. I think there was some delay initially, which
could have been avoided. I will address what should be done to reflect this below.
Safety and condition of site
The excavation carried out by Aviva was just inside the front gate leading to Mr S and Ms Bs
house. It was covered with a board. They feel this was not safe to walk over and say it
became slippery after rainfall. Mr S says they had to use their back gate at times and that
they were unable to have visitors for two months because of their concerns about the safety
of using this access.
Aviva says the site was safe as the hole was covered with a board. I have seen the photos
provided of this and it does not look obviously unreasonable to me and theres no
independent evidence I have seen that this was not safe or suitable.
Mr S has highlighted that the utility company said it was unsafe but it seems to me its
comments were in reference to it excavating next to this hole, rather than the site generally.
Without any more convincing evidence I am not persuaded that this was unsafe and Avivaswork should not have been done in the way it was. I also do not accept that this prevented
visitors or Mr S and Ms B accessing their property. They have said they have a back gate,
so even if the property was not safely accessible from the front gate, they had an alternative.
However, I do accept that the hole and covering board was unsightly and using the
alternative gate would have been inconvenient. And this inconvenience went on for a lot
longer than should have been necessary.
Mr S is also very unhappy that the material dug out of the hole was piled on the grass.
However, it could not be piled on the pavement and I am not persuaded Aviva could have
done anything else with this. Mr S has suggested the material could have been removed
temporarily and brought back at the end of the job but I do not think this would have been a
reasonable expectation. The utility company may have done this with its excavation (as Mr S
has mentioned) but that is possibly because its excavation was on the public roadway and
path and there would have been no alternative. The fact the utility company might have done
this, does not mean this is reasonable for work done within a private property.
The policy doesnt cover like for like reinstatement after excavation or underground repairs. It
covers filling in any excavation and leaving the site relatively level and safe. Aviva is
therefore not obliged to reinstate any turf, the gate or paving that was disturbed in the course
of carrying out the repairs. And I am not persuaded that Aviva needs to reinstate the garden
beyond what it has already done, as even if it had not caused delays in the repairs being
completed, I think the same damage to the grass and path would occurred anyway.
With regard to the plant pot, Aviva has already offered to reimburse Mr S and Ms B for this
and I think this is reasonable. Aviva has also acknowledged that litter should not have been
left by its contractors. I have seen photos, which show around two crisp packets and a
plastic bag in a pile of earth and rubble. These should have been removed and I understand
their dissatisfaction about this. Mr S has referred to fines for littering but I cannot fine or
punish a business. I can only award compensation to reflect any harm done. I will consider
this further below.
Compensation
I can see that this was a long saga for Mr S and Ms B. Mr S has said that their health
suffered as a result. There is no medical evidence to support this, as far as I am aware, but I
have no doubt it would have been extremely frustrating and stressful that this took so long to
resolve. Having said that, Mr S and Ms Bs expectations about compensation are somewhat
unrealistic (even if Aviva was responsible for the entire period it took to resolve the problem,
which for the reasons given above I dont think it was). However, I also think that the
compensation offered by Aviva is not enough to reflect the trouble caused.
Having considered all the evidence, I think the total sum of £750 compensation is warranted.
This is to reflect the delays that were attributable to Aviva and the consequences that flowed
from that (including the failures in communication which resulted in Mr S chasing the matter
at least 15 times; the additional avoidable time that their garden was in as state of disrepair
and the inconvenience this caused; the litter in the garden; the additional time they were
unable to use the affected toilet). This is in addition to the £40 for the plant and pot.
Responses to my provisional decisionI invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
Mr S and Ms B have confirmed they accept my provisional decision. 
Aviva has also responded and confirmed it has nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has added any further information or evidence, I see no reason to change 
my provisional findings. I remain of the opinion the compensation offered should be 
increased to £750, in addition to the £40 payment for the plant and pot. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited and require it to pay Mr S and Ms B 
the total sum of £750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of the claim. (If Aviva has already paid any part of the £500 compensation it already 
offered, it can deduct that and so only needs to pay any remaining balance between the 
amount already paid and the £750 I have awarded.) This is in addition to the £40 already 
offered for the plant and pot, which should also now paid, if it hasnt already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman