DRN-3808652
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) closed his account without 
sending him an official letter and provided poor customer service when he logged a 
complaint. 
What happened
Mr C opened an account with NatWest on 19 August 2022 and was sent a debit card. He 
telephoned NatWest on 25 August 2022 as he was having issues logging onto his online 
banking. He was told during the call that the account application was subject to further 
checks, as per the terms and conditions, and was in the process of being closed as a result 
of those checks. He was told he would receive a letter in the post confirming this.
Mr C was unhappy that the account had been closed with no prior notice given to him, and 
that he did not receive the closure letter mentioned in the phone call. He was also unhappy 
that he waited for half an hour to get through to NatWest only for the line to drop 
immediately, meaning he had to wait again for them to answer his second call. 
NatWest issued a final response letter in which they explained it had closed his account 
without prior notice and had done so in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
They stated they had sent a closure letter to Mr Cs address on 24 August 2022 and that the 
call being cut off did not appear to be due to any technical issues on their end. As a result, 
they did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C referred the complaint to our service. Our Adjudicator looked into the complaint and 
agreed that NatWest had closed the account in line with the relevant terms and conditions. 
They could not see that a closure letter had been sent to Mr C as NatWest had suggested, 
but as Mr C was informed over the phone of the closure, they did not think this significantly 
affected him. In addition, they could not see any indication that the line was cut during Mr Cs 
initial call due to any technical issue with NatWest. And while they empathised with the delay 
Mr C had phoning NatWest, they didnt agree this warranted further action from NatWest.
Mr C disagreed with the outcome.  He reiterated that he did not receive a letter of closure 
and that he should have been given official notification of the account closure. He 
maintained that his initial phone call had been disconnected and that this was the main focus 
of his complaint. Mr C also added that he wanted to know the reason why his account had 
been closed. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that NatWest closed the account in line with the relevant terms and 
conditions and I dont think it needs to take any further action to remedy the complaint. Ill 
explain why in more detail. 
I firstly considered the account closure itself, though I do appreciate this is not the main 
focus of Mr Cs complaint. The terms and conditions do set out that there are a number of 
circumstances in which NatWest is able to close an account without prior notice. NatWest is 
under no obligation to inform Mr C of the specific reasons for the account closure. 
I want to reassure Mr C that I have carefully considered their reasons and the evidence 
provided, and having done so I agree they have made the decision in line with the relevant 
terms and conditions. As a result, I think NatWest acted reasonably when it closed Mr Cs 
account without giving prior notice. 
Ive gone on to consider the miscommunication around the account closure letter. NatWest 
has acknowledged that they made an error when they said a closure letter would be sent to 
Mr C. They have since confirmed that Mr C would have been shown a message once he 
completed his account application confirming it had not been successful. However, Ive not 
seen evidence of this. 
Regardless, I have to consider that they were not required to give prior notice of the account 
closure and that Mr C was informed over the telephone just two days after the account was 
closed. While I appreciate this was not an official notification, Mr C is still in the same 
position he would have been in had NatWest correctly informed him the account had been 
closed, albeit two days later. Because of this, I dont require NatWest to take any further 
action in relation to this complaint point. 
Finally, I have considered the telephone calls Mr C has mentioned. Ive listened to the initial 
phone call where the telephone line dropped, and the one in which Mr C was then able to 
talk to a call handler. Having listened to the first call and taking into account NatWests 
comments that they had no technical issues at the time, Ive seen nothing to indicate 
NatWest was significantly at fault for the line dropping.  
Ive taken Mr Cs comments on board that he had to wait on hold for some time before his 
phone calls were answered. And this must have been frustrating for him. But unfortunately 
this can be a natural part of trying to contact companies by phone. And having carefully 
considered the individual circumstances of this complaint, I dont direct NatWest to take any 
further steps to remedy this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023. 
Rebecca NorrisOmbudsman