DRN-4207061
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) transferred his personal pension plan to a 
different provider without his knowledge. He also complains that the plan was mis-sold.  
What happened
Mr S took out a personal pension plan (PPP) with HSBC in December 2009. He said he was 
told at this point that he could increase his contributions at any time without having to set up 
a top-up plan. Mr S contributed £100 per month to the plan. 
In 2015 HSBC transferred all of its pension business to another provider, who Ill refer to as 
Company A, and Mr Ss PPP was part of this transfer. 
Mr S told Company A in March 2022 that he wanted to increase his contributions to £300 per 
month. He was told he couldnt increase contributions to the current plan and that he would 
have to set up a top-up plan. 
Mr S complained to HSBC and said he had taken out this particular plan because he was 
told he could increase contributions at any point, and this was important to him as he neared 
retirement age. He also complained that the plan was mis-sold in so far as he hadnt been 
advised in 2009 that the terms could be changed without his approval and that he wasnt told 
that the plan could be sold to a third party. 
Mr S also complained to Company A, and this Service is dealing with that complaint 
separately. 
HSBC responded to Mr Ss complaint and said that when the PPP was set up in 2009, the 
pension transfer to Company A was not foreseeable, and could not have been disclosed to 
Mr S. So it said the information given to Mr S in 2009, namely that contributions to the plan 
could be increased, was correct at the time, and his pension plan was not mis-sold. HSBC 
said the 2015 transfer of its pension book was carried out in accordance with the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 and required Court approval, therefore proper regard was 
given to the legal and regulatory requirements of the transfer.
Mr S remained unhappy and so complained to this Service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He said it appeared that the decision to 
change the terms of the policy was made after the transfer to Company A took place. 
Mr S didnt agree with what our Investigator said, so this came to me for a decision. 
HSBC has given this Service permission to deal with all complaint points here, even where 
some might have been made out of time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to reassure Mr S that I have looked at and considered all of the evidence provided by 
both parties, even if I have not referred to each and every point made, or piece of evidence 
provided. This reflects the informal nature of this Service. 
Im aware that Mr S has also made a complaint about Company A, and that complaint is 
being dealt with separately by this Service. So I am just dealing with the complaint against 
HSBC here. 
Mr S said that he feels the policy has been mis-sold to him on the basis that he wasnt told at 
the time of the sale that the terms of the policy could be changed at a later point and that the 
policy could be transferred to another company. Mr S hasnt complained about whether the 
plan otherwise suited his needs back in 2009. So Ive considered just these particular points 
when looking at Mr Ss complaint that the policy was mis-sold. 
Based on the information Ive been provided with, Ive got no reason to think HSBC knew 
back in 2009 that its pension book, including Mr Ss PPP, would be sold at a later date. So I 
dont think this is something HSBC could have told him about at that point in time. 
Mr S also thought he should have been told that the possibility existed that the plan could be 
sold at any time, even if the sale to Company A wasnt known about back in 2009. But I dont 
think HSBC needed to tell him this. Broadly speaking, and subject to relevant regulations, 
financial businesses can opt to transfer all or part of their business as they deem 
appropriate. As this isnt something that was relevant to whether Mr Ss plan suited his 
needs back in 2009, he didnt need to be informed of it.  
Mr S also thought HSBC should have told him the terms of the policy could be changed after 
it was sold to him. But I dont agree that this needed to be highlighted to him. Its the case 
that businesses are able to make commercial decisions about, for instance, changing 
pension plan terms, after the plans have been sold. I wouldnt expect HSBC to provide 
customers with information about what commercial decisions a business can and cant make 
at the point in time that they are looking to buy a PPP that suits their individual needs.    
In any event, even if Mr S had been told that policy terms and providers can change, Im 
satisfied its more likely than not that this wouldnt have resulted in him changing his mind 
about buying this particular plan from HSBC. Changes to the terms and providers can 
potentially happen with most PPPs, so Ive no reason to think that Mr S would have favoured 
a different provider, who could potentially also have changed terms or providers, over HSBC.  
I know that my decision will disappoint Mr S, but I am not asking HSBC to take any action 
here. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman