DRN-4189426
The complaint
Miss T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited mishandled her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the insurance policy and the complaint is a car first registered in about 
2018. In about May 2022, Miss T bought the car. It had a number plate ending in the letter D.
For the year from early May 2022, Miss T took out an Aviva policy for the car. She was the 
policyholder. Another family member was a named driver.
Unfortunately for Miss T, in early November 2022, police came to her home and took the car  
away. It turned out to be a car that had been registered with a number plate ending in the 
letter U, then stolen and sold to Miss T with the number plate ending in the letter D, a 
cloned registration number that had been assigned to another similar vehicle.
Miss T contacted Aviva to make a claim for the value of the car.
In mid-January 2023, Miss T complained through us to Aviva. She said that it should have 
done more checks before it insured the car. 
By a letter dated 10 February 2023, Aviva said that it couldnt assist Miss T under the policy.
By a final response dated 22 February 2023, Aviva said that in November 2022 it had 
explained over the phone the reason for declining the claim. Aviva said it shouldve sent a 
letter confirming this is in December 2022, but it hadnt. It said it was sending £300.00 
compensation. Miss T asked us to investigate.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Aviva had a responsibility to make good Miss Ts loss. The investigator thought that £300.00 
was fair for the delayed letter.
Miss T disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
Aviva has a system to know who is the insurer of a registration number.
Insurance companies must have responsibility to make sure that a registration 
number is not insured with several insurance companies. 
Aviva shouldve told her that another insurer had already issued an insurance policy 
for the registration number ending in D. Aviva shouldnt have issued another policy 
for the same number.
Due to this, she lost precious time that she was unable to inform the police as soon 
as this happened to her. The police told her that it wouldve been much better if shed 
reported it sooner, while CCTV was still available.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has said it was the insurer of the car (with the correct plate ending in U) at the time its 
owner reported it stolen.
I consider that the car belonged to its true owner unless and until Aviva met that owners 
theft claim, when Aviva became the owner of the car. 
Miss T bought the car from a private seller who had no right to sell it. Miss T was never the 
owner of the car. She didnt have an insurable interest in it. She lost her money to the seller. 
From that time on, Miss T was vulnerable to having to give the car back to its true owner.
Its usual practice for insurers to cover a car using the registration number stated by the 
customer. I wouldnt expect an insurer to check the identity of a vehicle by any other means 
such as its vehicle identification number.
Insurers have access to a central database of vehicle registration numbers and their 
insurers. I dont consider that Aviva was obliged to check the database to see if another 
insurer had issued a policy under the same registration number. And it wouldnt be unusual 
for there to be more than one insurer of one registration number  especially if the car had 
recently changed hands.
I consider that Aviva had no reason to doubt Miss Ts statement that she was the owner of 
the car - or to tell her it was stolen - until the police somehow traced the car. So  
notwithstanding what Aviva said in its final response - I dont hold Aviva responsible for 
delaying Miss Ts opportunity to take action against the seller.
All this is very hard on Miss T. I dont underestimate the impact of the sellers actions on her.
Nevertheless, I cant say that Aviva caused Miss Ts loss. I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct Aviva to reimburse her the price or the value of the car. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman