DRN-2895585
The complaint
Miss A complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax gave her poor customer 
service.
Miss A is represented by her father in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Miss A herself.
What happened
Miss A visited a branch of Halifax to make a transaction on her account. As Miss A was in a 
serious accident a number of years ago which resulted in brain damage, she relies on 
people to help her with everyday tasks, so she was accompanied by her father on this visit.
Miss A says that when her father asked the cashier at the branch to update her passbook 
the cashier queried why they wanted the passbook updated. When her father informed the 
cashier that they wanted to make a withdrawal then the cashier spoke with a colleague and 
asked Miss As father if he had power of attorney for the account.
As Miss As father didnt have power of attorney for his daughter, the cashier called over 
another colleague, which Miss A believes was the branch manager. They asked her father 
why he was talking on behalf of Miss A and they said that they wanted to speak to Miss A. 
Her father explained that due to her injuries she was unable to hold a conversation, but the 
staff member asked Miss A how much she wanted to withdraw whilst blocking her fathers 
view of her.
Miss A said to the staff member to ask her dad the questions and the staff member asked 
her what she wanted the money for. Miss A says she was getting distressed by the events 
as customers in the branch were looking at her and her father as if they had done something 
wrong. Miss A said that her father had said they would be making a formal complaint to the 
bank and the member of staff told the cashier to pay them the money. Miss As father said 
they had not been asked these questions before to which the cashier said that she should 
have been asked these questions before.
Miss A has said previously, when there were members of staff they hadnt seen before, her 
father was asked for identification including his Halifax debit card and this usually was the 
end of the matter. 
Miss A said she felt humiliated by the experience. She complained to Halifax and asked 
them if she would have been treated the same had she been white British. She also said that 
all of their staff should have training regarding how to interact with disabled and vulnerable 
customers.
Halifax did not uphold Miss As complaint. They said they had spoken to the two staff who 
were involved in the transaction and their version of events were significantly different to 
Miss As. They said Miss As father had asked for the cash and as it wasnt his account and 
he didnt have power of attorney then they needed to confirm the transaction with the 
account holder, Miss A. They said that as Miss A couldnt hear them that the member of staff 
had moved to the left of the Perspex screen so her voice wouldnt be muffled, and the 
cashier said there was a large counter unit between the staff and Miss A and her father. 
Halifax confirmed they would have dealt with the situation the same, regardless of race or 
disability as they needed to establish that the account holder had given authorisation for the 
transaction.
Miss A wrote back to Halifax to ask whats the procedure to withdraw money if she went into 
the bank to withdraw money again. Halifax confirmed that it would be the same as the last 
visit she made - the account holder needs to be present with account collateral and confirm 
the amount of withdrawal. The branch colleague may refer this to a manager for approval if 
required. Miss A brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not upheld Miss As complaint. She explained that in complaints like 
these due to the time passed its not possible for us to obtain Closed Circuit Television 
(CCTV). She also explained that usually CCTV isnt helpful in these situations as sound is 
rarely accessible so we cant understand what was said and in what manner those words 
were said.
Our investigator also explained that only an account holder can make requests on their 
account unless a Power of Attorney was acting on their behalf. She said that although Miss 
A hadnt been asked these questions previously, she did not feel that Halifax had 
discriminated against Miss A or acted unreasonably towards her. Miss A asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. She disagreed with Halifaxs version of events 
and said that she didnt make accusations of discrimination lightly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties dont agree on the events of the complaint, so Ive looked at all of the 
information available to me in order to decide what is likely to have happened. As our 
investigator explained to Miss A, CCTV would not be available here. So while this would 
have proved where in the branch the staff had spoken to Miss A and her father, I wont be 
able to rely on this here and I cant say either way where all parties were positioned when 
the questions were asked to Miss A. 
Ive considered what Miss A has said regarding how the Halifax staff treated her and her 
father when she made the withdrawal was a result of racial and disability discrimination. I 
must make it clear to Miss A that discrimination is a matter of law, set out in the Equality Act. 
Its for the courts to make findings on matters of law, and it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
make a finding that Halifax acted in breach of the Act. Although I am required to take law into 
account, if its relevant, in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a 
complaint.
Here though, Im satisfied that Miss A was treated fairly in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. I say this as Halifax have a duty of care to Miss A as the named account holder to 
ensure that she (or any registered power of attorney) authorises a transaction on the 
account. As both parties agree that it was Miss As father who gave the instruction to 
withdraw funds from the account after he requested the passbook was updated then I would 
expect Halifax to obtain confirmation of the withdrawal from Miss A, since she was the only 
person authorised to transact on the account. Im satisfied this was a genuine and legitimate 
reason for them to take the actions they did. So while this may have caused embarrassment 
or humiliation for Miss A, Im persuaded that the questions Halifax asked her were asked for the purposes of verifying that she wanted to make the withdrawal here and not an 
unauthorised person. 
Ive also considered what Miss A has said about her not being asked these questions before. 
I understand it may be concerning to her if it appears that Halifax staff are acting in a 
different way to how they have previously handled the same situation. But as our investigator 
explained if this hasnt happened in the past, then its reasonable to say that this has been at 
Miss As benefit. Im persuaded that Halifaxs approach is for Miss A to give authority for the 
transaction to be carried out. 
I say this based on the answer they gave Miss A when she enquired what would be the 
procedure when she wanted to withdraw money again. Halifax explained that the account 
holder needs to be present with account collateral and confirm the amount of the withdrawal. 
They also said that the branch colleague may refer this to a manager for approval if required. 
So I am persuaded that this would be their normal procedure regardless of a customers 
race or if they were disabled. So although Miss A has felt humiliated and embarrassed here, 
Im satisfied Halifax treated her fairly as they asked her questions in order for her to 
authorise the transaction. Had they processed the transaction without asking further 
questions and not had Miss As authorisation then Im persuaded they wouldnt have been 
following their procedures by letting an unauthorised person make a transaction on another 
persons account  even if this was her father. So it follows I will not be asking Halifax to do 
anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman