DRN-3071310
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Bank of Scotland (BOS) converted a monetary transfer amount from 
pounds sterling to euros before sending, which caused a reduced amount of money to be 
received by the recipient as a result of exchange rate fees.
What happened
Mr F transferred £4,000 from his BOS account. However, the recipient only received 
approximately £3,750. Mr F believed that BOS had taken a fee on the transfer and wasnt 
happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
BOS looked at Mr Fs complaint, but they noted they hadnt charged a fee and that they 
processed the transfer in line with Mr Fs instructions. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr F wasnt satisfied with BOSs response, so he referred this complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that, while Mr F had wanted to 
transfer money to another UK sterling account, he had instructed BOS to use an IBAN 
number, and had accepted that BOS would convert the money transferred to euros during 
the transfer instruction process. This meant that the reduction in money received was the 
result of the transferred amount being converted into euros by BOS, and then back into 
sterling by the recipient bank. 
Because Mr F had been informed by BOS of their intention to covert the transferred amount 
to euros, and because Mr F had accepted the conversion during the transfer instruction 
process, our investigator didnt feel that BOS had done anything wrong and so they didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been disappointing for Mr F to discover that the recipient 
of his £4,000 transfer had only received approximately £3,750.
Transfers between UK sterling bank accounts are usually undertaken using a sort code and 
account number, in which case the sterling amount is transferred directly. 
However, in this instance, Mr F instructed the transfer using an IBAN number  a method 
usually used for foreign currency transfers, where the amount being transferred needs to be 
converted into a foreign currency.
Because of the use of an IBAN number, BOSs systems considered the transfer to be a 
foreign currency transfer, which in this instance meant that the transfer process included 
converting the pounds sterling amount into euros.
Mr F has confirmed that this step was unnecessary, and ultimately it was the conversion of 
the transferred amount from sterling to euros  and then back to sterling by the recipient 
bank  that caused the reduction in money received. 
If it were the case that BOS had proceeded to make the transfer without seeking 
confirmation from Mr F during the transfer instruction process that he accepted that the 
money would be converted to euros and transferred in that currency, then I would likely find 
with Mr F here.
But BOS did confirm to Mr F that the money would be converted to euros before being 
transferred, and BOS gave Mr F the amount of euros that would be transferred as well as 
the exchange rate that would be applied when converting the sterling amount to Euros.
Importantly, Mr F agreed to and accepted the conversion of sterling to euros proposed to 
him by BOS during the transfer instruction process. And it was only following Mr Fs 
agreement to the currency conversion that BOS proceeded with the transfer.
As such, its difficult to conclude that BOS have acted unfairly here, and if it was the case 
that Mr F didnt want the transfer to proceed on the basis that BOS had proposed, then it 
seems reasonable that Mr F would have declined the conversion of the funds into euros and 
contacted BOS to inquire why such a conversion was being proposed.
Mr F has stated that he was being guided through the process by BOS who advised him to 
accept the conversion into euros. However, Ive listened to the recorded telephone calls 
provided by BOS and these dont corroborate Mr Fs position. Instead, the relevant call that I 
listened to involves a BOS agent trying to help Mr F make the transfer via the BOS app, but 
when this cant be achieved, they recommend that Mr F attempt the transfer via the website. 
Mr F then thanks the agent and the call ends. And BOS have no record of Mr F calling back 
to then receive instructions on how to make the transfer via the website.
It may have been the case that Mr F did call back but that they call wasnt successfully 
recorded. But even if was the case that BOSs agent confirmed to Mr F that to make the 
transfer he should accept the currency conversion, I feel that it would have still been 
incumbent on Mr F to have understood that in doing so the amount being transferred would 
be reduced as a result of the rates of exchange, and to have declined the currency 
conversion if he was unhappy with that. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr F was wanting here, but it follows from all of 
the above that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing BOS to take any further 
action. I hope that Mr F will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman