DRN-4468158
The complaint
Mr B complains Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly settled his claim on his 
motor insurance policy after his car was stolen.
Advantage are the underwriters of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of the intermediary. As Advantage have accepted it is accountable for the actions 
of the intermediary, in my decision, any reference to Advantage includes the actions of the 
intermediary.
What happened
Mr B had his car stolen whilst at work in mid-April 2023. He made a claim on his motor 
insurance policy. 
Advantage investigated the claim and as the car was not recovered it made a settlement 
offer of £15,750 which Mr B refused.
Advantage made Mr B an increased settlement offer of £18,135 less the policy excess.
Mr B was not happy with the time taken to progress his claim or the settlement amount 
offered. 
As Mr B was not happy with Advantage, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said Advantage should 
increase its offer. They obtained two further valuations from the main trade guides and found 
these to be higher than the two used by Advantage. They initially said an average of these 
two higher valuations was the fair amount to pay in settlement. 
When presented with the additional trade valuations obtained by our investigator Advantage 
said it would increase its offer to the average of the four valuations, less the policy excess. 
It said it was unfair to only to use the two highest valuations and suggested using an 
average of the four guides was the fair settlement. Our investigator agreed with Advantage 
and said the amount paid to Mr B should be the average of all four trade guides. This 
amount was £19,596.
As Mr B is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first looked at the time taken to settle Mr Bs claim. Mr Bs car was stolen on 12 April 2023.  
I looked at the evidence provided by Advantage and can see that it engaged its approved 
loss adjuster before the end of April 2023. Based on the information provided by its loss 
adjuster it made further investigations into the claim.
The offer of settlement was made in mid-August 2023 which was approximately four months 
after the car was stolen. I do understand that this will have felt like a long time to Mr B, but  
Advantage is entitled to thoroughly investigate a claim. I am satisfied the investigations 
carried out were legitimate and there were no avoidable delays caused by Advantage. 
I next considered whether Advantage acted fairly and reasonably in reaching its
decision as to the level of settlement offered to Mr B following the theft of his car. My role
is not to provide an exact valuation but to make a judgment as to whether the offer of
settlement is fair.
I firstly looked at the details within Mr Bs motor insurance policy with Advantage. It says it 
covers damage or loss by fire and theft up to its market value. 
Although this service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair
and reasonable and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. We use trade guides
to do this, and theyre based on nationwide research of likely selling prices and take the cars
specifications, mileage etc into account.
This service doesnt consider the question of market value to be an exact science, however
our general approach is that the valuations given in the main motor trade guides provide the
most persuasive and consistent evidence. These guides are based on extensive nationwide
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices.
We take the approach that if Advantage can demonstrate that it used a fair process to value 
the car then we wouldn't interfere with the offer it has made.
I looked at the information Advantage used when calculating the market value for Mr Bs car. 
I saw it obtained valuations from two of the main trade guides using the date immediately 
prior to Mr Bs claim. In this case the two valuations were £17,510 and £18,760. Advantage 
offered £18,135 which is the average of these two guides.
I looked at the valuations our investigator obtained. He obtained valuations from four guides, 
using the date Mr Bs car was stolen. These include valuations from the two same guides as 
used by Advantage and valuations from two different trade guides that gave higher 
valuations. The average of these four valuations was £19,596.
I do accept that prices of used cars can change on a regular basis. This could be an
increase or decrease. As it had taken Advantage approximately four months to conduct its 
investigations into Mr Bs claim and make its settlement offer to him, I considered if there 
had been any change in valuation since the date Mr B made his claim in April 2023.
I obtained valuations from the same four trade guides, this time using the date of settlement 
in August 2023. I found the cars market value had decreased from the date of loss. 
Therefore the time taken to settle Mr Bs claim did not negatively impact the valuation of the 
car. 
I also saw evidence from both Mr B and Advantage of adverts of similar cars for sale that 
were both higher and lower than £19,596 - the average of the four trade guides. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B but after considering there are variances 
in both the four trade valuations and the sales advertisements, I think in this case the fair 
way to settle this complaint is to use the average of all four trade guides.  Therefore, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Advantage to pay Mr B a total of £19,596 
less any policy excess for the total loss of his car. As Advantage has already made an 
interim payment it should now pay the difference of a further £1,461. It should also pay 8% 
simple interest on this amount from the date the original settlement figure was paid until the 
date paid.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr B a further £1,461. It should also 
pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the original settlement figure was paid 
until the date paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman