DRN-3629013
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited unfairly declined a claim for 
private medical treatment. 
For ease, I will refer to all submissions as being made by Mr M directly. 
What happened
Mr M has access to a group private medical insurance policy. The policy provides cover for 
Mr M, his wife, and their two children. 
In 2021 Mr M submitted a claim for his son who Ill call X. He wanted X to see a specialist 
paediatrician for bedwetting, but AXA declined the claim and said it considered Xs condition 
to be pre-existing. 
AXA explained the group policy was underwritten on a moratorium basis; meaning there was 
no cover for any problems X had before joining the policy in July 2021 until hed been a 
member for two years. And it said the claim related to a pre-existing condition because the 
doctor whod referred X set out hed never been dry at night. 
Mr M disagreed and said Xs condition wasnt pre-existing, rather, Xs previous bedwetting 
was natural behaviour. But when AXA maintained its position Mr M referred his complaint to 
this service and one of our investigators looked at what had happened. 
Our investigator didnt think AXA had acted unreasonably or unfairly in declining the claim. 
So, they didnt recommend the complaint about it be upheld. But Mr M disagreed and asked 
for the complaint to be decided by an ombudsman. 
In doing so Mr M reiterated that Xs bedwetting had been natural behaviour. He also said 
bedwetting was common amongst many children until they reached a certain age, at which 
point it would become uncommon and something to be investigated. And, that he could not 
have made a claim any sooner because Xs bedwetting would have been considered normal 
behaviour. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with the relevant rules and industry guidance AXA has a responsibility to handle 
claims both promptly and fairly, and to not reject them unreasonably. 
Mr M says Xs bedwetting isnt a pre-existing condition, but I dont think it was unreasonable 
of AXA to conclude that it was. Let me explain why.
The cover available through the group policy is set out within the relevant policy 
documentation. Namely the membership certificate and the policy terms and conditions. 
The membership certificate confirms that Mr M, his wife, and their two children are subject to 
a moratorium underwriting: 
No benefit is payable before the 25 Jul 23 for medical conditions existing or foreseeable at 
the date of enrolment or the recurrence of past medical conditions.
The terms and conditions also detail AXAs approach to, and definition of, pre-existing 
conditions. Specifically they say:
What cover is there for treatment of any conditions I was aware of when I joined?
We call conditions you were aware of when you joined pre-existing conditions. 
The definition of pre-existing conditions
A pre-existing condition is any disease, illness or injury that:
you have received medication, advice or treatment for before the start of your cover, 
or
you have experienced symptoms of before the start of your cover, whether or not the 
condition was diagnosed.
If your membership certificate shows you have a moratorium, this means that you wont 
have cover for treatment of any medical problems you had at any time before you joined until 
you have been a member for two years in a row.
Applying that here, when Mr M made a claim for X to see a specialist for bedwetting, the 
referring doctor made the following comments about Xs history of this:
with the support of the nursery and school X has been dry in the daytime since the age 
of 4.5 years.
He has never been dry at night.
He wets the bed consistently once or twice a night. 
X has never been dry at night and is now nearly 8 years old.
So as the available medical evidence explained X had always bed wet and the claim being 
made related to Xs bedwetting, I dont think it was unreasonable of AXA to find the claim 
related to a pre-existing condition.
Mr M says bedwetting is considered normal behaviour in children and that through his own 
research he learnt bedwetting became a concern in children from a certain age. I appreciate 
all of the arguments being put forward by Mr M here. But the only medical evidence available 
in this complaint sets out that X had always experienced bedwetting. And therefore in line 
with both the moratorium and the relevant policy terms I cant fairly conclude that AXAs 
position on the bedwetting being a pre-existing condition was unreasonable.
While I empathise with Mr Ms strength of feeling, for the reasons I have given above I will 
not be interfering with AXAs position. I realise Mr M may be further disappointed by this, but 
I hope he can understand why Ive reached this decision.   My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman