DRN-2708594
The complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage Mr C took out in 2020 with Clydesdale 
Bank Plc. He already had a BTL with Clydesdale, but wanted to port it to a different property.
The essence of the complaint is that the new mortgage was arranged on a different 
interest rate product from the one Mr C wanted and was expecting. Mr C had wanted an 
offer with £250 cashback but no cashback was paid. When he complained, Clydesdale 
said the product hed applied for, through his broker, wasnt a cashback product, but it 
agreed to pay him the £250 in any event. It also upheld a separate complaint about 
delays, and compensated Mr C for his out-of-pocket expenses.
Mr C brought his complaint to us, because simply paying him the cashback didnt 
provide the wider terms hed wanted. He pointed out that the choice of product had 
come from a conversation hed had with Clydesdale before involving his broker, and the 
bank provided the product code for the broker to put in the application. Our investigator 
thought Clydesdale had made a fair offer to resolve the complaint. Mr C has asked for it 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr C being identified. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Ill deal with the delays aspect of the complaint first; Mr C was paying a house sitter to 
occupy the property for insurance purposes, and the delays (which Clydesdale admits to) 
cost him money. Clydesdale has covered Mr Cs costs and paid him what I consider 
reasonable compensation; theres nothing further it needs to do. The contentious element of 
the complaint is the interest rate product, and I go there next.
Its apparent from the evidence that Mr C had direct discussions with Clydesdale before his 
broker became active in the transaction. As part of those discussions, Clydesdale provided a 
code for the mortgaqe product Mr C ended up applying for and receiving. However, that 
doesnt change the demarcation lines between the responsibilities of lender and broker in a 
transaction such as this. 
Mr Cs broker was the intermediary who submitted the application to Clydesdale on his 
behalf. By doing so, he assumed responsibility for ensuring Mr C was applying for the 
correct mortgage. More significantly, it was for the broker, not Clydesdale, to go through the 
mortgage offer with him, and make sure the terms of it met his needs and circumstances. 
Ive no power to consider whether and to what extent the broker did what he was meant to 
do; firstly, this is a complaint against Clydesdale, not the broker. Secondly, the advising on 
and arranging of BTL mortgages isnt a regulated activity, hence its outside the scope of our 
jurisdiction.
All I can consider here is what Clydesdale did, or failed to do. In my view, paying Mr C a sum 
equal to the cashback hed have received if hed applied for the cashback mortgage product 
is a fair reasonable settlement for Clydesdales part in Mr C applying for a non-cashback 
mortgage product.
Mr C doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor 
Clydesdale will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions 
a court might impose, Mr Cs right to take legal action against Clydesdale over the subject 
matter of this complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman