DRN-4055224
The complaint
Mr O and Miss L complain that HSBC UK Bank plc didnt make it clear to them that they 
would both need to accept a rate switch offer for their mortgage, and that if they didnt do so 
within two weeks it would expire. As a result, the offer expired and they had to accept a 
product at a higher interest rate.
What happened
Mr O and Miss Ls HSBC mortgage was on a fixed interest rate ending in December 2022. 
On 17 September 2022, Mr O applied online for a new fixed rate product. He chose a five-
year rate of 3.64%, to take effect from 1 January 2023. He says the information he saw on 
the screen confirmed the deal was booked and complete.
On 23 September, Mr O and Miss L went on holiday. On 5 October, shortly after they got 
home, they found two letters from HSBC. The first was dated 21 September and said Miss L 
had to confirm the mortgage rate switch online. The second letter was dated 1 October and 
said the rate switch offer had expired.
Mr O phoned HSBC to explain what had happened, and on 6 October he applied for and 
booked a five-year fixed rate at 4.89%. Mr O and Miss L felt they had no choice but to go 
ahead with the higher rate  which was accepted and then implemented in January  but 
they also made a complaint.
HSBC said that once Mr O had accepted the offer online, he would have seen a confirmation 
screen which said Miss L needed to accept the offer as well, and the deadline for doing so  
otherwise the offer would expire. It wasnt prepared to honour the lower rate. It accepted its 
service should have been better later when Mr O tried to sort out the problem and 
complained; it apologised and paid him £50 compensation.
Mr O and Miss L referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
Investigator concluded that HSBC had done enough to make it clear to Mr O and Miss L that 
both of them would need to accept the rate switch offer. She also thought it had paid fair 
compensation in recognition of its service failings, and she didnt recommend it do or pay 
any more. 
Mr O and Miss L didnt accept that conclusion. They still thought HSBC should have 
contacted them by email or mobile, as it does with other messages.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise Mr O and Miss L will be disappointed, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the Investigator, for much the same reasons.
The screenshot HSBC has provided of the online mortgage offer rate switch document said:
Joint rate switch
For a joint rate switch, all applicants need to accept the Mortgage Rate Switch Offer 
Document before the new mortgage can take effect. Further information is provided on the 
next screen.
The mortgage offer also said: 
To accept the offer, follow the instructions that have been provided to you separately. Once 
you, or where there is more than one of you, all of you, have accepted the offer, and we 
have acknowledged this has been successful, this will operate as a variation to the 
Agreement between us and the date of the variation will be the date on which we provide the 
acknowledgement.
HSBC then sent Miss L a message through online banking and a letter in the post, both 
telling her what she needed to do to accept the offer. They said Miss L would need to accept 
the rate switch offer by 30 September 2022; otherwise the offer would expire and Mr O and 
Miss L would need to re-apply.
Ive noted what Mr O has said about HSBC not contacting him or Miss L by other means, 
such as email and text or phone, but there was no obligation on it to have done so. I find the 
initial information available online and the later reminders HSBC sent were clear that the rate 
switch wouldnt go ahead unless both Mr O and Miss L accepted the offer.
I can certainly see that there was no reason for Miss L not to have accepted the offer for the 
lower rate, and I recognise that the higher interest rate has had a significant impact on Mr 
Os and Miss Ls monthly mortgage payments and this will continue for the five years of the 
fixed rate. But because the offer wasnt accepted in time, the funds werent booked to be lent 
at that rate. I dont find that HSBC misled Mr O and Miss L and, in all the circumstances, I 
dont consider I can fairly require it to honour the rate.
HSBC has paid compensation and apologised for its poor service, and I think that was fair to 
reflect the upset and inconvenience Mr O and Miss L experienced in dealing with it.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC has done enough to put things right, so I make no order or 
award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman