DRN-2401492
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited logged an incident against 
his record when he didnt want to claim on his commercial vehicle policy.
What happened
Mr H called Admiral, on the advice of the police, after someone slashed his tyres. He 
discussed the incident with Admiral but said he didnt want to claim at that point. 
When Mr Hs daughter bought a policy, with him as a named driver, it became apparent that 
there was an incident recorded against Mr Hs record on the Claims and Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE). Mr H complained to Admiral, as he hadnt made a claim and didnt know 
the incident had been logged on an external database. He said this had affected his 
premium, as well as the premium as any other policy on which he was a named driver. 
Admiral said Mr H was required to report the incident and it had to log it as an incident, as it 
had happened. It also said that Mr Hs no claims discount (NCD) hadnt been affected but his 
premium had been impacted because of the incident. Mr H didnt think this was fair and 
brought his complaint to us. He thought Admiral should have made it clear it would be 
logged against his name.
Our investigator looked into Mr Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
the policy set out that Mr H needed to report any incidents. He thought the incident had been 
correctly recorded on CUE as notification only and also thought Admiral had made it clear 
enough that it would be logged. Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for the same reasons. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy require him to report any incidents, even if he 
doesnt claim. This isnt an unusual term. When an incident is reported Admiral is required to 
record what happened on CUE. In this case Admiral recorded the incident as notification 
only which is the way it needs to record an incident which has happened, but no claim has 
occurred from that incident. 
Admiral said the incident is what has led to his premium increasing, even though there isnt a 
claim. Different insurers will price their policies according to different risk factors. And in 
some cases, the insurer thinks the driver is a higher risk when theres been an incident, even 
if that driver didnt claim and wasnt at fault. Thats whats happened here, so I dont think its 
Admirals fault the cost of Mr Hs, or his daughters, policy increased. 
I can understand why this is frustrating for Mr H, as it wasnt his fault his tyres were slashed 
and he now has the incident recorded against him, which has led to increased premiums. 
But Admiral has recorded the incident correctly. 
Ive listened to a call where Mr H queried reporting the incident and made it clear he didnt 
want to claim. While Admirals agent didnt specifically say the incident would be reported on 
CUE, she did say it needed to be logged. I appreciate Mr H didnt realise this meant it would 
be logged on an external database, but Admiral were required to do that. I also dont think it 
would have made a difference if the agent had specifically told him it would be recorded as 
notification only on CUE. I say that because Mr H had already told Admiral the incident 
occurred, as he was required to by his policy. 
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, as I recognise his strength of feeling 
about this. But I dont think Admiral has done anything wrong, so Im not going to ask it to do 
anything. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman