DRN-3347029
The complaint
Mr B and Miss M, who are the partners in M, complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed Ms 
bank account.
What happened
M had an account with HSBC. In January 2020, HSBC contacted the partners of M, saying it 
needed them to update and confirm their business details. One of the partners contacted 
HSBC and was told he needed to complete this review online. But the partner says he 
doesnt conduct anything to do with banking online, and asked if he could instead complete 
the review by phone or in branch. He says he was told this wasnt possible  and so told 
HSBC it needed to make other arrangements.
HSBC contacted M again on a number of occasions. Each time, M contacted HSBC to say it 
wouldnt complete the review online. In August 2020 HSBC sent M a form asking the 
partners to give an email address and mobile phone number. The partners completed the 
form, entering n/a in the box for the email address. 
In October 2020, HSBC decided to close Ms account, with effect from 15 December 2020.
M says it didnt discover this until December 2020, when a payment from its business debit 
card was declined. One of the partners visited a branch, and was told the account had been 
closed by the review team. He tried to contact HSBC but was told he couldnt speak to them 
as hed failed security checks. He then received a letter confirming that access to the 
business account had been withdrawn. Subsequently, he received a letter asking him to 
register for telephone banking  and another which, incorrectly, said HSBC now had all the 
information it needed. Dissatisfied, M complained to HSBC.
HSBC looked at the complaint. It didnt think it was wrong to have closed the account. But it 
accepted that M had needed to wait when it tried to contact HSBC and that HSBC had given 
M some incorrect information. It offered to pay M £100 for the trouble and upset this had 
caused  though M says it never received this offer. M then referred the complaint to us.
In April 2021, HSBC sent M a cheque for the outstanding balance.
In May 2021, M stopped trading. The partners say they were unable to pay the account into 
another account as they didnt have an account in their joint names. They say they were also 
unable to open a new business account as none of the banks they approached were 
opening new business accounts at that time.  M was also informed by their payments 
processor that it could no longer pay card payments into Ms account. M says it had to sell 
its remaining stock at a reduced price  and that in order to repay the outstanding balance 
on Ms credit card, one of the partners had to sell shares.
Our investigator looked at this and thought HSBC should uphold the complaint  and asked 
HSBC to reopen the account and pay M compensation for the trouble and upset it caused. 
HSBC completed further checks, this time over the phone, and agreed to reopen the 
account. M disagreed, as it thought it should get more to reflect the financial losses it 
suffered because of HSBCs actions. The complaint was then referred to me.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 6 February 2023. I said that given 
HSBC had reopened Ms account, the £100 it had previously offered would be a fair 
resolution to the complaint. I said:
Financial businesses like HSBC are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. These include making sure it has up-to-date details for its customers. 
And if customers dont provide this information, these legal and regulatory 
requirements mean that HSBC may need to suspend or close any account.
This is reflected in the terms and conditions that apply to HSBCs business 
accounts. These state that If we make a reasonable request for information, you 
must give it to us as soon as possible. The terms go on to say that If you dont [] 
we could block or close your account(s) or suspend your access to services. 
Elsewhere, the terms state that HSBC can close accounts by giving M at least two 
months notice.
Looking at everything, Im satisfied that HSBC was acting in line with its legal and 
regulatory requirements when it asked M to provide information about the account.
Ive next considered HSBCs requirement that the review be conducted online.
M didnt use online banking. But HSBC has explained that it didnt require M to use 
online banking. HSBC says that in order to complete the review it required an email 
address. It says this was so it could issue documentation electronically. It says it 
wasnt able to carry out these reviews in branch. It considers email to be an 
acceptable and accessible method of completion for all customers to use.
M disagrees. The partners say neither Mr B nor Miss M conduct anything to do with 
banking online. This is because a family member had a bad experience losing money 
online. Mr B says he told HSBC it needed to make alternative arrangements. And I 
see that ultimately HSBC was able to carry out the review over the phone.
I acknowledge that it wouldnt be reasonable to make M complete this process 
online if none of the partners could use the internet. But I do not accept that it wasnt 
possible for M to complete HSBCs process online. Im satisfied that M did, in fact, 
carry out aspects of its business online. Mr B has sent us emails between M and its 
landlord. Mr B has also sent us emails between M and its payment card processor. 
Finally, it appears that M had a webpage on social media. Based on what Ive seen, it 
doesnt appear M couldnt use the internet. Instead it appears M just chose not to.
The letters from HSBC said that Ms account might be closed if it didnt complete the 
review. The terms and conditions of Ms account required M to respond to HSBCs 
reasonable requests for information. As Mr B in fact had an email address, I cant say 
his failure to complete the review was reasonable. HSBC gave M a number of 
opportunities to provide this information, and even extended the deadline for a 
response. I appreciate M is unhappy that, ultimately, HSBC was able to complete the 
review quickly over the phone. But M could also have completed the review quickly 
online.
For these reasons, I dont agree that HSBC acted unreasonably by requiring M to 
complete the process online. Ive seen nothing to suggest M couldnt do this. As M 
didnt complete the review, Im satisfied HSBC acted in line with both its legal and regulatory obligations and the terms and conditions of the account when it decided to 
close Ms account. As such, Im not going to tell HSBC to pay M compensation for 
the financial losses M says the account closure caused to its business. It wouldnt be 
fair to make HSBC pay M for losses that M could reasonably have avoided. Here, all 
M needed to do was complete an online form. I appreciate Mr B has strong 
objections to conducting his banking online. But given the very serious 
consequences of not doing so, Ms partners ought reasonably to have reconsidered. I 
dont accept it was reasonable for him to allow his business to lose its banking 
facilities, with all the consequences that followed, rather than completing the review 
online.
Ive considered whether HSBC treated M unfairly in any other way. HSBC agrees 
some of its communications could have been clearer. And I note that HSBC has now 
successfully completed the review over the phone  and, following our involvement, 
is willing to reinstate the account. HSBC offered to pay M £100 to reflect the trouble 
and upset this caused; our investigator recommended HSBC pay M more.
Now HSBC has agreed to reopen the account his will allow M to pay in any 
outstanding cheques and regain access to the funds that were in the account. I 
appreciate Mr B is now worried that some of the businesses that paid those cheques 
may no longer be in business. Mr B is also unhappy that M hasnt had access to 
funds made payable to M or jointly to Miss M and Mr B. But thats not something I 
could hold HSBC responsible for. And while I accept that M may not have been 
easily able to open a new business account at the time HSBC closed the account in 
December 2020, Ive seen no reason why M hasnt been able to apply for an 
alternative account  or one in the joint names of the partners  during the period 
since then.
I agree that some of HSBCs communications could have been clearer. I note that 
HSBC told Mr B, after the account had closed, that it had successfully completed the 
review, when it hadnt. It also asked Mr B to complete a pack to set up telephone 
banking after the account had already closed. Mr B also had to spend a long time on 
the phone trying to sort things out. But Ive concluded HSBC didnt act unreasonably 
in closing the account, and in any event much of the impact of this appears to have 
been caused by the failure of M to take reasonable steps to mitigate its losses. HSBC 
has already paid M £100 to reflect the trouble and upset it caused. Given what Ive 
said above, and given that HSBC has now reopened the account, I think this will be a 
fair outcome to Ms complaint.
I said Id consider any further points M or HSBC made by 6 March.
HSBC hasnt sent me anything further to consider.
M doesnt agree. In summary it says:
Though it accepts that HSBC needs to keep information up to date, the terms and 
conditions of the account do not state that information has to be supplied online;
It doesnt accept that it makes a difference whether the partners couldnt use the 
internet rather than refusing to do so;
Although the business did use email to communicate with its landlord and payment 
card processor, it is free to choose who it does business over the internet with;
HSBC has subsequently allowed them to complete the review over the phone.
It never received the offer of £100 from HSBC.Ive therefore reviewed the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered the points M has raised in response to my provisional decision. But 
they dont change my conclusion. Ill explain why.
Essentially, M wants HSBC to compensate it for the failure of its business. But for the 
reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, I think much of what happened stemmed 
from Ms refusal to complete the review online. It wouldnt be fair to tell HSBC to compensate 
M for losses it unreasonably failed to avoid. Crucially, here it seems that despite using email 
for other aspects of its business, and having a page on social media, M wouldnt carry out 
the review online even though HSBCs correspondence made clear that the consequences 
of not doing so could include the closure of the account. I dont accept M couldnt have done 
more to find another bank account after HSBC closed the account: whatever difficulties M 
may have had in December 2020, I dont accept that M couldnt have found alternative 
banking in the years since then.
Turning to Ms specific comments: I accept that the terms and conditions didnt expressly 
require M to provide information online. I dont accept, though, that this meant it was 
reasonable not to have done so, given what Ive already said above. For similar reasons, Ms 
reasons for not completing the review are plainly relevant to whether HSBC treated M fairly. 
Ultimately, M could have avoided all of this had it taken minimal steps to avoid it.
HSBC has now agreed to reopen Ms account. And I accept that some of the information 
HSBC gave M could have been clearer. Given everything that happened and what M has 
told us, I think £100 fairly compensates M for any inconvenience this caused. Im not going 
to tell HSBC to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons above I uphold Ms complaint. HSBC says its reopened Ms account. HSBC 
should also pay M £100 for the trouble and upset it caused if it hasnt already. I make no 
further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023. 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman