DRN-3836251
The complaint
Mr F has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a credit card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
Mr F had PPI on at least two credit card accounts, which he says were taken out in 1987.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr F disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have 
happened given the evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC has no paperwork relating to the sales, which isnt surprising given how long ago they 
took place. The only evidence it has is the information that has been provided by Mr F 
himself.
Ive seen copies of credit card statements from 1990 showing that PPI was present. Mr F 
says he previously provided other statements to HSBC which would show that hed had PPI 
since 1987. Ive no reason to doubt this and consider it more likely than not that Mr M did 
have PPI early than 1990. However, whilst the statements show that Mr F had PPI on his 
credit cards, they are not that helpful in determining whether or not the policies were mis-
sold.
Mr F says he was asked in branch to take out PPI but refused. He therefore believes it was 
added without his knowledge or consent.
I have no doubt that Mr F has provided his genuine recollection of events. But the sales 
happened a very long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if his memory had faded 
somewhat.
From what we know of HSBCs sales processes at the time, the PPI would normally have 
been presented as optional. And I havent seen anything that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr F has said but, overall, Im not persuaded that he 
wouldnt have been given a choice about taking out PPI. I find it more likely than not that he 
probably decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers 
doing so. 
HSBC advised Mr F to buy the PPI. That means that, in recommending it to him, it had to 
ensure that the policies met his needs. And from what I know of Mr Fs circumstances at the 
time, the PPI was suitable for him.
Mr F would have received some sick pay from his job. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr F would have received full pay for. 
Mr F says he had some savings. But having the PPI would have allowed him to retain these 
or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that HSBC didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should have, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr F wasnt affected by any of those 
things. For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have been 
excluded under the policy. So Mr F is no worse off as a result of anything HSBC may have 
done wrong, so theres nothing that HSBC needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do 
not uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman