DRN-3057344
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide him with a full cash 
refund, after needing to cancel his travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 6 January 2020 Mr M purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, to cover his relative, 
Mr M. The policy provided Mr M with cancellation cover from this date. And provided 
additional cover for Mr Ms trip, including post-departure cover  with Mr M going on holiday 
from 29 June 2020 to 8 July 2020. The cost of this was £258.52. And included cover for five 
medical conditions declared.
In addition to this, Mr M purchased some additional cover options. These were;
Travel Disruption Cover - £9.99
Excess Waiver - £8.95
With the above additional cover options, and insurance premium tax, the total cost Mr M paid 
was £342.95.
Mr M has explained he learnt the holiday was no longer going ahead in March 2020, when 
informed by the holiday provider. This was as a result of the Coronavirus pandemic. And so, 
Mr M contacted Great Lakes around this time  on 28 March 2020, to let it know that the 
holiday wasnt going ahead and had been re-booked. Mr M asked for the dates on the policy 
to be altered, as the trip originally planned had been re-booked for July 2021. 
Great Lakes said it couldnt alter the travel dates on the policy. It said it was only able to alter 
travel dates, if they were within 13 months of the original policy purchase date. And given the 
policy had been purchased in January 2020, it wasnt able to extend the cover to July 2021. 
Instead, Great Lakes said it could offer Mr M a pro-rata credit voucher for the unused part of 
their travel insurance, which it said equated to £177.72. Mr M would then be able to use this 
to purchase a new travel insurance policy with Great Lakes, whether this be a single or 
annual multi-trip policy  as long as they did so within 36 months.
Mr M didnt feel this offer was fair. And so, made a complaint to Great Lakes. But it didnt 
change its position. Remaining dissatisfied, Mr M referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review. 
Our investigators opinion
Our investigator considered this complaint. He set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. He also explained that it is a 
fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear a risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said this mean 
its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered 
during this time. Including for the additional excess waiver, and travel disruption cover. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contact of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 6 January 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks from that point, until the date the holiday, or policy Mr M had 
was cancelled. He noted the policy was cancelled before the holiday, which was cancelled in 
March 2021, and therefore there was no risk being covered from that point.
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
He thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances was for Great 
Lakes to provide Mr M with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated based on the remaining 
premium when Mr Ms policy was cancelled, on 28 March 2020, until its original end date of 
8 July 2020. 
He noted that Great Lakes had already done this for the main policy. But he said it should 
also do so for the additional cover options provided by Great Lakes  the travel disruption 
and excess waiver cover. And that this should be in addition to another £25 voucher Great 
Lakes had offered for some failings in customer service.
Great Lakes agreed that the pro-rata voucher should include the above and said the pro-rata 
voucher (including the main policy, the additional cover options, the £25, and insurance 
premium tax), would now be £215.94.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators opinion. He felt that Great Lakes offer of a voucher 
wasnt fair, as Mr M wouldnt be travelling abroad in the future, due to his age and health.
Because Mr M remained dissatisfied, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case.
The policy terms and conditions say;
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, on intend to make a claim.
If notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will be 
refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part, for the same reasons as our investigator.
The policy was cancelled outside of the cooling-off period, and so there is no requirement 
under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer any refund to Mr M.
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that it wont provide any refund after 
the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr M wanted to 
initially move the trip dates, and when that wasnt possible, cancel the insurance policy. 
The holiday would no longer be going ahead as originally planned due to the coronavirus 
pandemic. But I dont think Mr Ms reasons for cancelling the policy would be considered 
exceptional circumstances. I say this because I dont think the global coronavirus 
pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The examples or exceptional circumstances given 
in the policy terms relate to bereavement or changes in the policyholders health. And they 
arent the reasons this policy was cancelled.
I have taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I do think its reasonable for Great Lakes to provide a pro-rata 
refund for the main policy, and the additional cover options purchased.
I say this because, Mr M was covered from the date the policy was purchased, for any 
cancellation claim they needed to make. And the premium paid included this cover. As Great 
Lakes were on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable for 
Mr M to pay for Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. 
Mr M didnt need to make a claim for his holiday. Instead, Great Lakes were contacted on 28 
March 2020, to ask for an extension to the policy, until July 2021. When this wasnt possible, 
it was agreed the policy would be cancelled, given the holiday was postponed until 
July 2021.
Because there was nothing left for Great Lakes to insure from the point the policy was 
cancelled on 28 March 2020, when Mr M had learnt the holiday wasnt going ahead as 
planned, and this was an unprecedented situation, I do think Great Lakes should provide a 
pro-rata refund, from the date of the policy cancellation, for both the main policy, and the 
additional cover options. These being the excess waiver and travel disruption cover. It 
means Great Lakes isnt charging a premium when it knows there is nothing left to cover.
Given this, I think a voucher for the remaining time left on the policy (from 28 March 2020 to 
8 July 2020) is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this case.
I appreciate Mr M doesnt agree and feels the refund should be provided in cash. But, the 
terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered arent unreasonably restrictive. It provides 
Mr M with a number of options, including the ability to purchase a single or annual multi-trip 
policy, or gift the voucher to someone else. And it allows Mr M to go on the same holiday at 
a later date than originally planned. 
Mr M has explained another holiday abroad is unlikely, given Mr Ms age and health. But I 
have to be mindful that Mr M was willing to travel with his health, and age as it was when 
they bought the policy. And I havent seen any firm evidence to show Mr Ms health has 
changed such that he can no longer travel. And, the voucher does allow use for a UK holiday 
too.
Great Lakes has recalculated the voucher, to include a pro-rata refund for the additional 
cover options, as well as the extra £25 voucher agreed  and noted this would be £215.94. 
Im satisfied this is fair. By offering the above, Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr M differently, 
and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has set and calculated the voucher in this case. 
Great Lakes has now calculated the voucher from the date Mr Ms policy was cancelled  28 
March 2020, to the holiday was due to end, 8 July 2020. This meant there would be 103 
days of the policy unused, where Great Lakes werent on risk  which equates to £190.94 of 
the premium paid. As the above offer of £215.94 reflect this, and the £25 voucher offered, 
Im satisfied Great Lakes offer is now fair. And so, I wont be requiring it to do anything more 
than this.
My final decisionGiven the above, my final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SEs offer to provide Mr M 
with a pro-rata credit voucher of £215.94, as per the terms and conditions above, is now fair. 
And so, Great Lakes SE should provide this to Mr M.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman