DRN-3637576
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way CMC Markets UK plc changed its method for pricing certain 
Contracts for Difference (CFD) that hed invested in. He says the changes caused him a 
financial loss for which hed like to be compensated.  
What happened
Mr M had a CFD trading account with CMC and, in April 2020, had a number of long oil 
CFDs open. The pandemic had caused widespread disruption to a number of commodity 
markets, and for the first time oil pricing was negative. This caused significant volatility in the 
market. 
CMC priced its cash oil contracts on the nearest most liquid futures contract  in April 2020 
this wouldve been the Crude Oil West Texas May 20. However, the exceptional 
circumstances surrounding oil in April 2020 meant that when CMC was about to switch from 
the May 20 to June 20 futures, it decided instead to switch to Crude Oil West Texas - 
December 20 futures. 
CMC emailed Mr M on 21 April 2020 and explained that it had decided to price its Crude Oil 
West Texas  Cash instrument from the December 2020 contract. It set out the holding 
charges that would apply from 21 April 2020, and invited Mr M to trade futures in order to 
avoid the unusually high holding costs. On 23 April 2020 CMC sent Mr M a further email 
setting out more detail about its decision. It explained the reasons why it was using the 
December 2020 futures to price its Crude Oil West Texas  Cash instrument, and how this 
had changed from the way it usually priced it. It also set out some additional restrictions and 
changes to its oil instrument as a response to the widespread volatility that the market was 
experiencing at the time. 
 Mr M continued to trade the same instrument until May 2020 when his open trades were 
closed by CMC due to Mr M having insufficient margin on his account. Mr M complained  
he said that he never agreed to such high holding charges, and didnt agree to the pricing 
change. He said that he felt CMC had defrauded him and he asked for compensation. 
CMC looked into Mr Ms complaint, but didnt agree it had done anything wrong. In short, it 
explained how its automated pricing worked, and how it derived prices for its oil cash 
contracts. It also explained how the widespread volatility in the market at the time meant that 
it had to adapt its processes for generating a price, and it gave its reasons for doing so. It 
gave a detailed explanation about how it calculated holding charges, and explained why they 
were so high in May compared to the previous month. 
Mr M remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Ms complaint. He concluded that CMCs terms entitled it to make the 
changes that it did to the way it priced its oil CFDs. He considered that the oil market at the 
time was affected by exceptional volatility, and he thought that CMCs decision was a 
reasonable one to try and mitigate the impact of this volatility on its customers. He 
acknowledged that the change in the way the contracts were priced was fundamentally 
different to the product Mr M had originally invested in, given how far in the future the price 
was based on, so he concluded that Mr M ought to have been properly notified of that 
change. 
But the investigator said that once the situation had been properly explained to Mr M on 23 
April 2020, it was his decision to either close out his open trades or keep them open. As he 
decided to keep his trades open, the investigator didnt think it would be fair and reasonable 
to ask CMC to compensate him for any losses he incurred after that date. However, he did 
award compensation for the period 21 to 23 April 2020. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said:
The price CMC was quoting for his oil cash positions had no relation to the original 
market price. Further, he said that it no link to the oil market or its prices. 
He said that initially the holding charge to keep his trades open was 23.5%, but this 
then changed to over 225% and this wasnt fair. 
His positions were closed at around 9 cents, but the market prices were over $30 at 
the time. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ms reasons for disagreeing with the investigator, but Im afraid I dont 
have much to add to what the investigator has already said. 
The terms of Mr Ms account allowed CMC a wide discretion in relation to how it generated 
the prices for the markets it offered on its platform:
The terms clearly explained that CMC quoted prices that were not intended to be 
identical to prices for similar financial instruments or their underlying quoted on a 
trading venue or by other providers. 
Prices were generated electronically by the platform. Prices took into account market 
data from a variety of sources, to ensure they were delivering fair prices and best 
execution, but the terms said clearly that these prices may not match those seen 
elsewhere. 
The terms gave CMC the right to change prices through the platform in real time. 
In looking at the way CMC applied the terms in Mr Ms case, Ive taken into account the 
explanations it has provided, as well as the wider market turbulence that was being 
experienced at the time. 
Looking at the widespread coverage of negative oil pricing, and the effect this had on the 
market, Im satisfied it was entirely fair and reasonable for CMC to use the discretion it had 
under the terms to amend the way that it priced this particular instrument. The investigator 
and CMC have already explained in detail the reasons why it did this and precisely what 
actions it took  and Im satisfied that none of these actions caused Mr M to be treated 
unfairly. It isnt this services role to step in and indicate to a firm how it should price its instruments, 
or what actions it should take in such challenging circumstances. Instead my role is to look 
at the changes CMC made, and decide whether it fairly and reasonably applied them and, 
most importantly, whether Mr M was given sufficient opportunity to understand the changes 
and decide whether he wanted to accept them or disinvest  bearing in mind that he had 
already accepted, in the terms, that hed be trading CMCs own price.
In this regard, I agree with the investigators conclusions that it was only on 23 April 2020 
that Mr M was fully aware of the changes to the oil market he had open positions on. And as  
a result, it was only from this point onwards that he had enough information to decide for 
himself whether this was a market that he continued to want to be invested in, bearing in 
mind the changes to how the price was being quoted. 
It therefore follows that losses which were incurred after 23 April 2020 were trading losses 
which Mr M took the risk of incurring. If he felt the market was no longer being priced in the 
way he thought it would be when he first opened positions on it, he shouldve closed his 
trades on 23 April 2020. By keeping his positions open, he accepted the changes CMC had 
made.  
I agree that CMCs email on 21 April 2020 was not detailed enough to fully explain to Mr M 
why the changes were being made, and what impact these would have on his positions. 
However, I do note that this email did clearly explain what futures contracts the price would 
now be based on, and how much the holding charge would be. 
In terms of the closure of Mr Ms positions, the evidence Ive seen from CMC shows that Mr 
M did not have sufficient margin to keep his trades open at the time. I appreciate Mr M 
disputes the price that his trades were closed at, but as above, comparing the price his 
trades were closed at with the price of oil in the underlying market at that time was not the 
way his positions were being valued  and it was not the price he had been trading on. In 
addition, Mr Ms comparison of the price of oil in May 2020 and the price his trades were 
closed at ignores the reduction in holding charges which he benefited from by virtue of 
CMCs decision to change how it priced this instrument.  
As Ive said above, Mr M had known about this for almost a month, but chose to continue 
trading on that price  so Im satisfied that he wasnt treated unfairly when his account, 
valued in accordance with the price CMC was quoting, no longer had sufficient margin to 
keep his trades open. 
Putting things right
As a result, I agree with the investigators proposal for putting things right:
Compare the losses on Mr Ms account between the moment in changed how the 
Crude Oil West Texas  Cash market was priced, to the moment it properly informed 
Mr M of this change on 23 April 2020. 
Pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset it caused by making such changes without 
fully explaining them to him at the time. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint, and award compensation as above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman