DRN-4287830
The complaint
Mr I complains about the way that ACI-UK Limited (ACI) has managed the collection of a 
debt in his name.
Mr I wants ACI to accept his settlement offer and write the debt off.
What happened
In 2022, ACI bought an account in Mr Is name. The account was originally held by a 
business I will refer to as P. Mr I was in financial difficulties and couldnt afford to repay the 
debt to P. Mr I complained about the actions of P before it went into liquidation. Mr I says 
that P told him that the debt had been written off.
Mr I is concerned that ACI didnt respond fully to his subject access request (SAR) as it 
didnt provide call recordings between him and P. Mr I says that if he still has to pay the debt 
to ACI, this will impact his ability to repay other priority bills. Mr I wants ACI to write the debt 
off, remove it from his credit file and pay compensation for the stress hes felt. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Is complaint be upheld. She explained ACI will 
only have limited information about the debt from the original lender. Our investigator didnt 
think ACI was at fault for not providing call recordings between Mr I and P. She thought ACI 
had responded to Mr Is SAR within the one-month time limit. 
Our investigator told Mr I that ACI wasnt willing to accept his offer of £50 but that he should 
speak to ACI with any concerns over affordability.
Mr I doesnt accept the investigators recommendation. He says he approached the 
liquidator acting on behalf of P but that its not responding. Mr I is unhappy that P didnt pass 
all the information to ACI. Mr I doesnt think ACI is acting fairly and says that its not the legal 
owner of the debt as his agreement was with P.  
Mr I says that ACI initially agreed to accept £90 to settle the debt and then went back on this. 
He thinks this proves ACI cant work with the people who owe money to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean Ive not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr I but I dont uphold his complaint. Im satisfied that ACI has 
responded fairly and reasonably to Mr Is concerns over the account. After Mr I asked for a 
copy of the credit agreement, ACI requested this from P. ACI placed the account on hold 
until it could provide a copy of the agreement. I think this was fair. 
ACI responded to Mr Is SAR with the information that it held  and it did so within a 
reasonable timeframe.  I dont find ACI is at fault for not providing recordings of calls that Mr 
I says took place with P, as this isnt information I would expect ACI to hold as part of buying 
the debt from P. Although I appreciate Mr I says P agreed to write the debt off, I dont have 
enough evidence of this. Without this evidence, I cant reasonably find ACI is wrong to ask 
Mr I to repay the debt. 
During his complaint, Mr I said that he didnt agree to ACI taking over the debt from P. But 
Im satisfied that ACI gave Mr I notice that P had assigned the debt at the same time as it 
told him that it had written off the interest as a gesture of goodwill. So, I think ACI has done 
enough to show Mr I that it owns the outstanding debt and that its entitled to try and collect 
it. 
I agree that there was a slightly confusing message from ACI in which it said it had accepted 
Mr Is payment offer. However, Im satisfied that ACI quickly clarified that it wasnt willing to 
accept a settlement offer of £90 but that it would be willing to accept an affordable 
repayment plan. I think this apology was a fair way to respond. And I dont interfere in ACIs 
decision not to accept the offer  particularly after it had already reduced the outstanding 
balance by more than half. 
I leave it with Mr I to contact ACI to discuss repayment of the debt. If Mr I does this, I remind 
ACI to treat any repayment offers that he might make fairly and sympathetically.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman