DRN-4455847
The complaint
Mr A is complaining about BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Alphera 
Financial Services (Alphera). He says they were irresponsible in lending to him as the 
repayments were unaffordable. A representative has raised Mr As complaint on his behalf 
but for ease Ive written as if weve dealt directly with him.
What happened
In April 2017, Mr A took out a hire purchase agreement with Alphera to finance the purchase 
of a vehicle. He borrowed £39,234 and paid a deposit of £100  the cash price of the vehicle 
was £39,334. The agreement required Mr A to make 47 monthly repayments of £622.29, 
with an optional final instalment of £17,085 which would enable Mr A to keep the car. Mr A 
first missed an instalment in September 2017 when his direct debit was rejected. Several 
further direct debits were rejected and he fell into arrears from early 2018. The agreement 
was terminated in May 2018 and Mr A returned the car.
Mr A complained to Alphera in July 2022, saying his personal finances werent sufficiently 
checked to make sure hed be in a position to pay back the loan. He said he had some 
difficulties with his mental health and that it was clear from his bank statements that he 
couldnt afford the repayments.
In response, Alphera said theyd carried out a credit check before lending to Mr A, 
considering factors such as his credit score, indebtedness and use of credit, as well as his 
employment status. Alphera said the information theyd reviewed raised no concerns. Mr A 
wasnt happy with this response so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint and thought it should be upheld. She said she 
didnt think Alphera had done proportionate checks  and if they had, theyd have realised 
the agreement wasnt affordable for Mr A. So, she said, they should refund him any amounts 
hed paid in excess of a fair usage amount. Alphera havent responded to our investigators 
view  so its come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr As complaint for broadly the same reasons as our 
investigator  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did Alphera carry out proportionate checks?
Alphera said their checks were limited to an automated assessment which would normally 
include looking at a customers credit score, payments to other lenders, use of payday 
lenders and credit cards, age, employment status and proposed monthly payment. They said 
theyd also have asked Mr A if he expected any change in his financial circumstances over 
the life of the agreement.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, and what Alphera found. At around £46,500, the total amount 
Mr A would have to repay was substantial, and the term of the loan was four years, so it was 
important the checks were thorough. 
Ive seen no evidence of the checks Alphera carried out, and they havent explained what 
factors informed their decision. This was a loan with a term of four years and monthly 
repayments of well over £600. Ive seen limited evidence of Mr As existing credit 
commitments at the time of his application but he had a mortgage and a significant loan, with 
monthly repayments for the two totalling over £500. He was also using credit cards and his 
bank account was overdrawn for much of the few months preceding the lending decision. 
Given the size of the loan and the amount of Mr As existing credit commitments I dont think 
Alphera could have carried out proportionate checks without making a reasonable estimate 
of Mr As income  his monthly repayments before taking into account any other living costs 
would have been well over £1,100. Ive not seen any evidence that Alphera made any 
attempt to determine Mr As income. So I cant say their checks were proportionate.   
If Alphera had done proportionate checks, what would they have found?
A proportionate check would have involved Alphera finding out more about Mr As income, 
credit commitments and expenditure to determine whether hed be able to make the 
repayments in a sustainable way.
Mr As told us he was employed full time until February 2017, after which he had to reduce 
his hours due to his health and his income decreased. His bank statements show his income 
was around £1,200 in January and February, around £800 in March and around £400 in 
April 2017. As Ive noted above, his mortgage and loan repayments were over £500 per 
month. Before taking into account any other expenditure its clear that monthly repayments 
of over £600 were completely unaffordable for Mr A. 
Im satisfied that if Alphera had done proportionate checks they could not have reasonably 
decided to lend to Mr A. So Im upholding his complaint.
Putting things right
Because I dont think Alphera should have approved the loan, I dont think its fair for them to 
charge any interest or other charges under the agreement. But Mr A had use of the vehicle 
for around 14 months so its fair he pays for that use. There isnt an exact formula for 
working out what amount would reflect a customers fair usage of a car. But in deciding 
whats fair and reasonable in Mr As case Ive thought about the amount of interest charged 
on the agreement and Mr As overall usage of the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr A 
should pay is £500 per month, or a total of £7,000. To settle Mr As complaint, Alphera 
should do the following:
Refund the deposit of £100, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.Refund all the payments Mr A has made in excess of £7,000, adding 8% simple 
interest per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Terminate the agreement with nothing further to pay and remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr As credit file regarding the agreement.
If Alphera consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award they 
should provide Mr A a certificate showing how much theyve taken off so that Mr A can 
reclaim that amount, assuming he is eligible to do so.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr As complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services need to take the steps outlined above to settle 
the matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman