DRN-4322332
The complaint
Ms H and Mr H have complained about a secured loan (second charge) they hold with Swift 
Advances.
The loan is administered by Swift 1st Limited trading as Swift Advances and that is the entity 
responsible for dealing with this complaint. Any reference to Swift in this decision should be 
taken in that context where appropriate.
Ms H has been adjudged bankrupt and her trustee in bankruptcy  company R  has joined 
the complaint as, under our rules, they are also an eligible complainant. 
Ms H and Mr H have been represented in bringing this complaint. For ease Ill simply refer to 
Ms H and Mr H throughout this decision, but that should be taken to mean their 
representative acting on their behalf where appropriate. 
What happened
Ms H and Mr H took out this loan in March 2007. They borrowed £17,000 (plus fees) over a 
15-year term on a repayment basis. The loan agreement shows the initial rate of interest 
was 11.91% variable, which gave an initial contractual monthly payment (CMP) of around 
£213.
The interest rate increased to 12.26% in June 2007 (which took the CMP to around £217), 
and then again to 12.51% in July 2007 (which took the CMP to around £220). It stayed at 
12.51% until May 2020, at which point it reduced to 12.16%.
Ms H and Mr Hs direct debit was returned as unpaid in April 2008, with a further direct debit 
being returned in August 2008. Although the arrears were cleared on 4 September 2008, the 
account went back into arrears later that same month where it remained until March 2015.
Ms H and Mr H cleared the arrears by making some extra payments on and off between 
February 2009 and December 2012, and then from January 2013 they set their direct debit 
to pay an extra (approximately) £10 a month, which they increased from July 2013 by a 
further £20 a month, and then from August 2014 by a further £30 a month. Between April 
and June 2015 they reverted to just paying their CMP, setting the extra payments back up 
from July 2015 to be at about £30 a month more than their CMP. They maintained that 
monthly payment amount (of £250) until March 2022 when the last payment was made.
In March 2022 the term ended, at which time Swift said there was still an outstanding 
balance of around £11,000 due to the fees and additional interest charged due to the historic 
arrears. No further payments were made by Ms H and Mr H, so by June 2023 the 
outstanding balance had risen to over £12,000.
In April 2022 Swift had written to Ms H and Mr H to say it was willing to accept a reduced 
sum of around £5,500 in full and final settlement of the loan, provided the full amount was 
received by 28 April 2022. As the sum wasnt received that offer of a reduced settlement 
expired.
Various complaints had been made over the years, which Swift responded to. And then this 
complaint was received by the Financial Ombudsman Service on 25 April 2022.
Earlier this year one of my Ombudsman colleagues issued a decision setting out which parts 
of this complaint we could consider. She said most of the complaint falls outside our 
jurisdiction, and the only complaint points we could consider were:
The interest rate:
oThe rates applied after November 2017 were unreasonable or fair.
oThe rate applied after November 2017 didnt alter to reflect the changes in Bank 
of England Base Rate.
Matters relating to the end of the term of the loan:
oThat Swift wants the balance paid.
oThe administration of the loan at that time, including the correspondence and 
Swifts response to Mrs H telling it that she couldnt afford to continue 
payments.
oThe settlement offers made by Mrs H and Mr H and Swift.
oThat interest continued to be applied after the term ended.
Our Investigator then looked at the parts of the complaint we could consider and didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Ms H and Mr H didnt agree and so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. Ill also not 
be commenting on any of the points that my Ombudsman colleague has already decided we 
cant consider.
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. Im 
aware Ms H and Mr H think our Investigator has shown bias towards Swift. Were required to 
decide whats fair and reasonable having assessed all of the available evidence from the 
parties. Im satisfied thats what the Investigator did in Ms H and Mr Hs case. Insofar as our 
Investigator didnt agree with them on the outcome of the complaint, that isnt in itself 
indicative of bias, however unwelcome they will have found his conclusions. 
For completeness I should confirm that Ive reviewed what my Ombudsman colleague said 
about our jurisdiction to consider this matter, and I agree with her findings.
The interest rate
I must consider whether from November 2017 onwards, Ms H and Mr H paid an unfairly high 
rate of interest. As my Ombudsman colleague explained in her decision about our 
jurisdiction, in considering the fairness of the interest charged since November 2017, it will 
be necessary for me to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case. This means that I will need to consider all the matters that contribute to and make up 
the interest charge added to the loan each month. And in turn that means considering the 
fairness of the interest rate used as the basis of the calculation.In order to consider what is fair and reasonable I need to consider all the circumstances. I 
need to look at the impact of what may or may not have contributed to those charges  
including things that happened before November 2017 which influenced the rate charged at 
that time.
Im satisfied that this is an essential part of determining whether or not the rate charged from 
November 2017 onwards was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. But in the event 
that I find something unfair about what happened before that date, I can only consider its 
impact on the interest charged since then  and therefore any redress I would award would 
only cover interest charged since November 2017. Thats because the complaint Im 
considering is that interest was unfairly charged from November 2017 onwards.
The loan offer and terms and conditions included in it say the rate on Ms H and Mr Hs loan 
is variable and set out the circumstances in which Swift is entitled to change the rate. Im 
satisfied that the rate was clear in the documents. The 2007 loan agreement says:
the interest rate is 11.91% p.a. variable, and
We may vary the interest rate to reflect any change to the costs of our funds (see 
clause I overleaf).
Clause I says:
We have the power to change the rate of interest we charge under this agreement to 
reflect a change in the cost of our funds.
Having considered the agreement very carefully, Im satisfied it is clear the interest rate is 
variable, and it may vary in-line with any changes to Swifts cost of funding.
I can understand why Ms H and Mr H think the rate is high  particularly when compared to 
indices such as Bank of England base rate (base rate). But Swifts variable rate was never 
linked to an external index, and base rate is just one factor that can affect a lenders costs. 
I havent seen any evidence that persuades me that Swift was obligated, contractually or 
otherwise, to have its variable rate track base rate (or any other benchmark rate). Ive also 
not seen any evidence that implies that would be the case either.
Swift isnt and never has been a mainstream lender. It lent to borrowers with a higher risk 
profile than would generally be acceptable to the average high-street lender and its pricing 
reflects that increased risk.
In June 2007 the interest rate increased to 12.26%, and then in July 2007 it increased to 
12.51%. It remained at 12.51% until May 2020, at which point it reduced to 12.16% when 
Swift says it reduced the rate across its loan portfolio as a goodwill gesture to borrowers in 
the light of the impact of Covid-19.
Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That 
includes thinking more broadly about whether the way, and the extent to which, the terms 
have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Ms H and Mr H. I think that is the 
ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold this case.
Ms H and Mr H may be unhappy that Swift increased its interest rates to cover increased 
costs to the business and that this was at the expense of its customers. But that doesnt 
mean it was unfair. The cost of running a business will change and can increase. It is broadly accepted that businesses might therefore need to increase interest rates to meet 
those costs. 
Under the terms of Ms H and Mr Hs loan, Swift could change the interest rate, but only for 
the specific reason set out in those terms; to reflect a change in the cost of its funds.
Ive considered all the available evidence and all of the changes Swift made to the interest 
rate since Ms H and Mr H took their loan. Having done so, I am not persuaded that anything 
Swift has done in varying the rate has led to Ms H and Mr H being treated unfairly. I have set 
out why below.
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence Swift has 
been able to provide in full or provided copies of it to Ms H and Mr H. Our rules allow me to 
accept information in confidence, so that only a description of it is disclosed, where I 
consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate to accept the 
information and evidence Swift has provided in confidence, subject to the summary of it I 
have set out in this decision.
Ive already set out that this was not a tracker loan, so Swift was not contractually obligated 
to track the base rate. Nor is it the case that Ms H and Mr Hs loan had a cap preventing 
Swift from increasing this variable rate beyond a certain margin above the base rate. So, 
there was nothing in the contract that expressly prohibited Swift from setting this loan rate at 
a level whereby the margin between the loan rate and base rate would change. But that 
doesnt mean that Swift could set the loan rate at whatever level it chose. The terms 
enabling Swift to vary the loan rate itself must be fair (to prevent businesses taking 
advantage of customers), and Swift had to ensure that in varying the loan rate it only did so 
for one of the reasons set out in the contract.
To evidence its decisions at the time and reliance on the above terms, Swift has told us that 
despite a reduction in the base rate, its overall funding costs increased considerably over the 
term of the loan.
Swift has provided relevant explanations and reasoning behind the decisions made to not 
vary the interest rate between July 2007 and May 2020. This is supported by evidence that 
shows the direct impact of its increased cost of funding and how this correlated with its 
decision to not lower the interest rate. In fact, after July 2007, even though its cost of 
funding was constantly increasing, Swift didnt pass any more of these costs on to its 
customers, instead maintaining the interest rate at the July 2007 level. So, although the 
interest rate diverged from the cost of funding, this was only for the customers benefit.
Considering all of the information and evidence available to me, I have not seen any 
evidence to suggest the way Swift set the interest rate was arbitrary, or unfair. Rather, the 
evidence Ive seen satisfies me that Swift acted in line with its terms and conditions to 
protect its legitimate interests while balancing its obligation to treat Ms H and Mr H fairly. And 
Im further satisfied that the evidence Swift has been able to provide for this period is 
corroborated by evidence of wider market conditions at the time. 
At this time, the mortgage and secured loan market was going through a period of significant 
change as a result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of 
businesses, including Swift, and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest 
rates charged across the market at the time. This was clear at the time and has been the 
subject of analysis by both the Bank of England and the FCA since. Whilst the base rate did 
reduce significantly during this period, the cost to lenders of funding their businesses 
changed, as did their funding requirements. These were made up of several factors that are 
not directly linked to base rate. With this in mind, and in conjunction with the evidence Swift has been able to provide, I am satisfied it had legitimate reasons to set its interest rate at the 
level it did.
In the aftermath of the global financial crisis, there were long lasting effects on the financial 
economy which ultimately changed the financial and regulatory landscape. This included 
heightened concerns that a reduced availability of funding and the resulting rollover of risk 
would adversely affect the performance of financial institutions and lenders, especially those 
 like Swift  that arent deposit taking institutions.
Whilst Swift was not obligated to do so, it lowered the interest rate in May 2020. I understand 
Ms H and Mr H dont feel that was the case, but it can be seen from the annual statement 
that was issued in March 2021. That says:
The rate of interest applicable to your mortgage during the period of this statement was:
28 Mar 2020 12.51%
1 May 2020 12.16%
Swift has said it didnt write out to its customers at the time as it did the interest rate change 
as a gesture of goodwill due to the situation with Covid-19, and it didnt want to overload the 
already struggling postal service with extra letters. That seems reasonable. 
Ms H and Mr Hs loan payments remained the same but I can see less interest was charged 
when the rate was reduced. As Ms H and Mr H were already overpaying each month at that 
time theyve not been financially disadvantaged by their CMP remaining the same, instead 
that has been to Ms H and Mr Hs benefit as it means they were paying more to their 
outstanding loan balance each month.
In summary, having carefully considered the information Swift has provided about its reviews 
and the costs of its funding, I dont find that it has been unreasonable or unfair in not 
reducing the interest rate it charged Ms H and Mr H. The rate wasnt a tracker and Swifts 
funding costs rose rather than fell.
I also note that there was no notable early repayment charge on Ms H and Mr Hs loan if 
they wanted to come out of the contract before the end of the term. So, had Ms H and Mr H 
been in a position to get a better deal or a different type of loan, there wouldnt have been 
any notable contractual barrier to them doing so.
The end of the loan term
I need to make it clear that I cant consider why there is a balance remaining at the end of 
the term as that issue wasnt referred to us in time and so was excluded by my Ombudsman 
colleague when she considered our jurisdiction to consider this complaint.To be clear the final response letter that was issued in July 2018 had two complaint points 
that dealt with this point:
Swift are now saying to pay off the debt within 4 years I would have to now pay in the 
region of £450 per month. This I cannot do meaning I would still owe £11,000.00 at the 
end of the 15-year term.
I need a resolve on this, I do not want this loan to run on as at the end of the term it 
may be more than £11,000.00 you would say I owe. I have paid over and above what 
was asked for. I think I have paid my part of the bargain.
As my Ombudsman colleague explained, the 2017 complaint wasnt referred to us in time 
and so we cant consider it. 
That means, the starting point for me to consider this part of the complaint is that a balance 
of around £11,000 was owing at the end of the loan term as Im unable to consider a 
complaint that it was wrong.
Once the loan term ended in March 2022 the sum outstanding at that time became 
immediately due for payment. As Ms H and Mr H didnt have the funds available to pay that 
full amount as a lump sum Swift looked at options, such as a short settlement agreement or 
ongoing monthly payments.
In February 2022 Ms H confirmed the £250 monthly payment remained affordable.
In April 2022 Ms H and Mr H offered £1,000 in full and final settlement of the debt, which 
was declined by Swift. After some further discussions Ms H and Mr H offered to pay half the 
balance in full and final settlement. Swift agreed to that and issued a letter confirming its 
agreement.
I understand Ms H and Mr H didnt want to proceed with that agreement as they felt theyd 
already overpaid the account and instead they wanted to refer their complaint to our service. 
That was entirely their prerogative, but Swift didnt have to keep its offer open pending the 
outcome of the complaint with this service.
It may be, if Ms H and Mr H go back to Swift now, it is willing to accept some form of reduced 
settlement. But that isnt something I can get involved in here as contractually Ms H and 
Mr H owe the full debt (which is increasing each month with the addition of interest and no 
payments being made) so that would need to be a matter of discussion between the parties. 
If, once that discussion is had, Ms H and Mr H are unhappy with the outcome of it then that 
would be a new complaint they could make at the time to Swift.
I think it is important to make it clear that interest will continue to accrue on this debt until it is 
repaid in full. That is entirely normal and as I would expect. Just because the loan term has 
ended doesnt mean the loan now becomes interest-free. This is covered in the loan terms 
under You will also have to pay interest on unpaid sums and unpaid costs, expenses, and 
charges and unpaid default interest as shown in clauses A and L overleaf. The outstanding 
balance is an unpaid sum and so interest is due on it until the sum is repaid in full.
Swift has said if Ms H and Mr H are unable to repay the full outstanding balance as a lump 
sum, then it may be able to continue to allow them to instead make monthly payments as a 
concession to assist them. The alternative to that would be Swift taking legal steps to 
recover the debt, so it seems reasonable that Swift is prepared to consider the monthly 
payments option as an alternative. Swift isnt saying Ms H and Mr H have to make payments of £250 a month, and if that sum is 
no longer affordable then that is something Ms H and Mr H need to discuss with Swift 
directly. But if they cant pay a lump sum, and cant make a suitable level of monthly 
payment, then Swift has the option to take legal steps to recover the debt so I would urge 
Ms H and Mr H to talk to Swift as a priority. As the interest continues to accrue each month it 
is important something gets put in place soon as otherwise the balance will just continue to 
increase.
I would urge Ms H and Mr H to contact Swift to discuss their options, either directly or with 
the help of someone trained to give them free debt advice - such as StepChange or Citizens 
Advice. The parties will need to work together and that means Ms H and Mr H will need to be 
open about their situation, and Swift will need to listen to what they have to say and, fairly 
and sympathetically, see if theres a way to work with them to agree a way forward. Thats 
not to say Swift needs to agree to anything Ms H and Mr H ask for and I would again remind 
Ms H and Mr H that this loan account is already overdue and as it is secured on the property 
then there are steps Swift could take to recover the money so I would urge them to work with 
Swift as a priority on this.
If Ms H and Mr H were unhappy with the outcome of those discussions with Swift then that 
could be a new complaint they could make at the time. But we cant get involved unless Swift 
has had a chance to discuss the options with Ms H and Mr H, and then had the opportunity 
to deal with a complaint from Ms H and Mr H about those discussions.
Having considered everything, whilst I can see how difficult things have been for Ms H and 
Mr H, I dont think Swift treated them unfairly in any aspects of the complaint points I was 
able to look at.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R and Ms H and 
Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman