DRN-3721658
The complaint and what happened
Miss T complains HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse money she lost to an investment 
scam. 
Miss T became romantically involved with someone she met online. They led her to believe 
they worked for an investment company and persuaded her to invest in crypto currency. 
Between April and June 2021, Miss T invested just under £5,000 through a number of 
different, legitimate, crypto asset platforms. She realised she had been scammed when the 
other party suddenly disappeared, and she was unable to make a withdrawal from her 
investment. 
Miss T complained to HSBC, but it didnt uphold her complaint. It said Miss T lost the money 
from her own crypto currency account and the payments didnt meet the criteria of an APP 
scam. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. She wasnt persuaded HSBC 
ought to have intervened in the transactions. 
Miss Ts representative has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It 
considers one of the payments, for £2,900, was unusual for the account and so HSBC ought 
to have intervened in it. It also said Miss T had visited the branch for instruction on how to 
make that payment and so it ought to have recognised she was falling victim to a scam.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have broadly come to the same conclusions as the investigator, for the 
following reasons. 
Under banking regulations and banking terms and conditions, a bank should execute 
authorised payments instructions without undue delay. The starting position is that 
liability for authorised payments rest with the payer  Miss T  even where they have 
been tricked into making those payments. There is no dispute Miss T authorised the 
transactions. 
In accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a duty 
to protect customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought 
reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be 
liable for those losses incurred by its customer as a result. 
I note HSBC has said the transactions dont meet the criteria for APP scams and 
that, in effect, it wasnt the point of loss. Whilst I accept card payments dont meet the 
criteria for APP scams as they arent push payments, I fail to understand why HSBC 
made these comments in relation to the bill payments, which are push payments. As 
such they do meet the criteria of an APP scam. I also dont agree that it isnt the point 
of loss. Just because a payment might be going to crypto-currency and may even be 
going to the customers own wallet, that doesnt mean their money is safe or they 
arent at risk of being scammed. 
I have looked at how Miss T operated her account prior to the transactions in 
question. I accept the majority of payments she made were of a much smaller value, 
although there are some higher value transactions as well. However, the majority of 
the payments Miss T made as a result of this scam were of a few hundred pounds. 
There was only one higher payment of £2,900. I accept that was higher than other 
spending on the account, but Im not persuaded it was so high, that HSBC ought to 
have paused it pending further enquiries. I have also taken into account that the 
payment was to a crypto currency exchange. But buying crypto currency was, and is, 
a legitimate exercise. Im not persuaded the pattern of payments was suspicious or 
meant that HSBC ought to have been on alert Miss T was at risk of a scam. 
Miss Ts representative has referred to her visiting a branch to find out how to make 
the payment for £2,900. It considers HSBC should have questioned her then and the 
scam would have unravelled. I understand the point the representative makes. But I 
dont think its realistic to expect a bank to question every large transaction or every 
transaction to a crypto exchange, that would simply be unmanageable. I have 
already found the transactions werent suspicious and so I wouldnt have expected 
the bank to have questioned Miss T further, even if in branch. 
Finally I note some of the transactions were by card, and it appears the first might 
have been by credit card as it doesnt appear on the account statements for the 
current account. Given Miss T paid crypto exchanges, who carried out the service 
asked for - converting fiat money into crypto currency - a chargeback or s75 claim 
(under the Consumer Credit Act 1974) wouldnt have any prospect of success. 
I accept Miss T has fallen victim to a cruel scam. Despite my natural sympathy for the 
situation in which she finds herself, I dont find HSBC did anything wrong and so I 
dont make any award against it.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman