DRN-3419210
The complaint
Mr M says hes unhappy about the advice he received from The Share Centre Limited 
(TSC)  subsequently taken over by Interactive Investor Trading Limited referred to as the 
business  to sharegift his stock. 
Mr M says that had he been told he had Canaf shares, he wouldnt have agreed to sharegift 
and close the account. As a consequence, hes suffered financial loss. 
What happened
Mr M initially held shares with a third-party business. The shares were transferred by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) after that business went into special administration. It 
seems the shares went from the third-party business to PwC, and then to TSC in November 
2018, before STC was taken over by the business in 2021.   
On 5 July 2019, following a call from Mr M to STC  expressing his unhappiness about the 
transfer of his investments from the third-party business  the stock was sharegifted to a 
charity (and his account closed) which Mr M is now very unhappy about.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The terms of business from 2018 (available online) make clear that services are 
provided on an execution only basis. So, it was Mr Ms responsibility to know what 
hed invested in. 
On 8 November 2018, a welcome letter from STC was sent to Mr M in the post, 
confirming the name and quantity of the investments transferred. It also made clear 
that the value wasnt shown but was available online. 
In January 2019 and again in April 2019, Mr M was sent valuation statements by 
email confirming the quantity, price, and value of the investments. The information 
relating to the Canaf shares  which showed his value was £0.00  was clear, fair, 
and not misleading. 
Based on the 5 July 2019 call, it seems Mr M was aware that his and his wifes 
holdings were transferred to STC by PwC. As part of security Mr M was asked about 
his holdings and he replied I couldnt even tell you. Canaf maybe. The handler 
replied thats one of them. Thats fine.   
Although Mr M had been in and out of hospital for health reasons, and wasnt sure if 
he held Canaf shares, the documentation provided earlier made reasonably clear 
that he did before he gifted them. 
When Mr M was initially asked about why he was calling he made clear that he didnt 
want his shares transferred to STC and didnt know how it had been transferred. 
When asked if Mr M was looking to close the account, he answered Basically yes. 
Because I think the stock in there is minimal from what I can remember. Mr M again 
mentioned the stock being minimum, and the handler confirmed that he had £12 in 
the account. As Mr M said yes, the stock was gifted to charity.
Although Mr M says that during one of the calls, he was told that it would cost him 
more to keep the account (because of the value of it), TSC has been unable to find 
that call. 
TSC also confirmed that despite the high number of shares held by Mr M in Canaf, it 
was of no value, prior to the transfer from the third-party business. 
Whilst the call handler couldve been clearer during the call on 5 July 2019, this was 
an execution only platform and Mr M appeared to have knowledge of his account. 
When he was told about the value of his shares, Mr M expressed no concerns, 
suggesting that the value might not be correct. 
On balance, the investigator is unable to conclude that the handler provided Mr M 
with wrong or misleading information. The call handler merely confirmed that the 
stocks were of minimum value and provided a valuation which was available to him 
at the time. In other words, the call handler provided the correct value of the stock  
as it appeared on his platform  and Mr M was aware of the Canaf shares he held 
with the business. 
In terms of the stock transferred theres nothing to suggest that the information on the 
documentation with STC was/is incorrect. As PwC was administering the transfer Mr 
M may wish to contact them to discuss any issues regarding shares.    
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Theres been much correspondence between Mr M and TSC/the business. But, in summary, 
he said: 
The investigator hasnt considered the main point, which is that he was told it would 
cost him more to keep the account than to get rid of it, or words to that effect. 
On the 5 July 2019 call the handler told him that the shares were only £12 and to 
keep it would cost him £12.60. 
Had he been told he had 10,000 units worth of shares, he would never have gifted 
the Canaf shares.
The handler couldnt have seen the value of the Canaf shares, because they only list 
on the Canadian market. The handler would have to look at another screen, or go to 
a different stock desk, to know the value.  
He provided information about what his shares wouldve been worth at the time. 
He didnt act on the matter sooner because of health issues. 
Hes not been assisted by the business or our service and has been given 
inconsistent information. The investigator has been on the business side all along. 
The business shouldnt have gifted the stock just because it couldnt be traded on its 
platform. The business had an obligation to clarify what shares and what amount was 
being gifted but failed to do this. 
In February 2021, Mr Ms wife sold her 69,500 Canaf shares for £3,800, which had 
initially been transferred to TSC in the same way as his. TSC/the business evidently 
lied when it said his stock value was nil.  
Hes disgusted by the way this matter has been investigated/dealt with by our 
service. 
  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said:
TSC/the business was unable to find a copy of the call referred to by Mr M. But it 
confirmed that he wouldve been sent a copy of the valuation statements to his email 
address held on file. 
The Canaf investment wasnt trading on the STC platform and the value was zero, so 
it hasnt provided incorrect information. 
Despite going back to the business with the points raised by Mr M, it refused to 
change its position.  
The call hander couldve worded his explanation differently by making clear that the Canaf shares held on its platform had no value because it wasnt tradeable. 
However, because Mr M had an execution only platform, and didnt want to transfer 
his shares, it was ultimately his decision to sharegift or do something else, before 
closing the account. 
Mr Ms wife kept her shares which were originally with TSC before they were moved 
to the business when it took over  where it became tradeable  which enabled her 
to sell her shares two years later. Its more likely than not that if Mr Ms wife had 
called TSC in July 2019, she also wouldve sharegifted her Canaf shares.  
The business made the following key observations: 
The shares held by Mr M in Canaf were Crest Depository Interest (CDI), not the main 
listing. 
The pricing data referred to by Mr M is for Canif Investments, which is a different 
investment. He held the CDI sub-version that traded on the UK exchange, with a 
separate price and trading mechanism. 
The CDI version that Mr M had was, to all intents and purposes, worthless. 
There were no pricing or regular trades in the investment and therefore it didnt hold 
value, unless it could be matched with a buyer, which was unlikely  exacerbated by 
the lack of liquidity on the secondary CDI listing. 
Mr Ms wife was able to trade two years later because in that time the business had 
announced a takeover of TSC and her account had been migrated to its platform, 
which does trade internationally. 
At no point was Mr M intending to retain the investment, hoping for the value to 
recover  that wasnt the point of his call in July 2019  especially as he wouldnt 
have had any idea that the business would take over TSC in future.  
At the time, Mr M didnt want to hold his stock , so the only option was to sharegift. 
On 8 November 2018 Mr M held 110,000 Canaf shares. The sharegift was 
processed on 5 July 2019 as per his request. 
Given that Mr M and his wife didnt sharegift at the same time, theres no evidence 
that he wouldve mirrored her actions if he still had them. She didnt do anything with 
her shares for two years, but it cant say that Mr M wouldve done the same. 
Mr M only complained in hindsight, after his wife had sold her shares. If he thought 
hed been mis-advised he wouldve complained two years earlier. 
At the time, there was no suggestion that TSC would be taken over, and the status 
quo was that the shares would never be moved to a main listing. 
If the business hadnt taken over TSC in 2021, Mr Ms wife might not have been as 
fortunate. Its impossible for the handler to have known that this wouldve been the 
case two years in the future.  
Although the handler told Mr M that the shares were worthless on the call, the 
account is self-managed, and it was ultimately Mr Ms responsibility to do his own 
research and decide what to do. He was a self-directed investor and wasnt in any 
way forced or compelled to sharegift. 
The business didnt and still doesnt provide financial advice, but it seems Mr M 
wants compensation (from the business) for his own shortcomings and failure to 
carry out his own research. Hes seeking to blame the business but disregarding his 
own actions. 
Even if TSC failed to make things clearer, this doesnt mean that the business is 
responsible for any hypothetical losses. Its unlikely that Mr M wouldve done things 
differently or mirrored his wifes actions in any case. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on balance I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same 
reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, Im unable to safely 
say that the business behaved unreasonably such that this complaint should be upheld or 
that its responsible for losses claimed. 
 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope Mr M 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr M, and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
All the pertinent points that can be made, have been made by the parties leaving little or no 
new points for me to comment upon. But in this instance, and on balance, Im persuaded by 
what the business says. 
Despite what Mr M says, I dont agree with the fundamental premise of his complaint that he 
was advised to sharegift his stock. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im 
satisfied that Mr M was only told what he could do, in order to close his account, and he 
appeared content to sharegift, in order to achieve closure.   
As an execution only platform, it wasnt for TSC to advise Mr M about what he ought to do  
that was a matter for him entirely. The business role was, and still is, to merely carry out his 
instructions, which Im satisfied it did successfully on this occasion. 
I note it was Mr M who called TSC on 5 July 2019 about the transfer of his shares in 
November 2018  from a third-party business to TSC. In short, I note he wasnt pleased 
about it and wanted to close down his account  that was the purpose of his call. So, in the 
circumstances, and on balance, I dont think it was unreasonable for TSC to assist him to do 
this.  
I note the topic of discussion during the call wasnt about the value and amount of his 
shares. On balance I think Mr M gave TSC the impression that hed done his due diligence 
and/or wasnt particularly concerned about the shares and just wanted to close the account. 
It could be argued why else was Mr M content to close the account and sharegift, if he didnt 
know the value of his shares. 
I note Mr M had initially said he didnt know how many shares he held, but he was written to 
by PwC and TSC in late 2018 confirming the transfer and quantity of the Canaf shares held, 
so I think he knew, or ought reasonably to have known, how many Canaf shares he held at 
the time. I note for security purposes, he was able to confirm that he held Canaf shares but didnt 
think they were worth much. TSC merely confirmed that the value was around £12, which I 
dont think was misleading based on the information it had available at the time because the 
shares couldnt be traded. Im mindful the business now says that the CDI version Mr M had 
was, to all intents and purposes, worthless because of this. 
   
I appreciate Mr M disagrees with the business, but I also note it has made clear that pricing 
data referred to by him is for a different investment. The business confirmed he held the CDI 
sub-version that traded on the UK exchange, with a separate price and trading mechanism. 
As there were no pricing or regular trades in the investment, it didnt hold value  unless it 
could be matched with a buyer which was unlikely. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, despite what M says, I dont think the business conclusion is unreasonable.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I broadly agree with the investigator that Mr M 
gave the impression that hed carried out his research/due diligence and wanted to close his 
account but wasnt sure of the logistics, and thats why he called TSC. 
Im not persuaded that TSC was under an obligation to go behind this and look deeper into 
the value of the shares  for example going to a different stock desk  before going ahead 
with closing the account as requested. I think if Mr M had specifically asked it to do so, it 
wouldve.  
Mr M wouldve known from documentation provided  including the 2018 letter and 2019 
statements  how many shares he held, so he couldve enquired about the shares first, and 
then decided what to do, but he didnt  which is likely to have given the impression that he 
already knew or wasnt too concerned.  
It seems Mr M had decided to close the account and was prepared to do whatever was 
easiest to achieve that aim. Thats probably why he readily accepted TSCs decision to 
waive the fees for closing the account, on the basis that it was the first time hed contacted 
the business.  
As I alluded to above, it wasnt for STC to question Mr Ms intentions or go behind his 
instructions. If Mr M didnt know or didnt specifically want to know about the value and 
status of his shares, I dont think I can now blame the business for this. I note the handler 
merely provided the information that was available to him, and this wasnt challenged or 
disputed by Mr M. 
So, whilst its likely Mr M probably didnt know much about his holdings or why they had a 
minimum value, he didnt ask the business for an explanation or information regarding this 
and unsurprisingly none was given. 
I note what Mr M says about missing shares, but I agree with the investigator that hes better 
placed discussing the transfer with PwC who are responsible for this.   
I note Mr M isnt happy about receiving valuation statements via email, I note he mentioned 
that it wasnt an email that he used. Be that as it may, it was an email that TSC had on file, 
and without any instructions not to communicate via that email address, I cant now say it did 
anything wrong by doing so.  
Based on what Mr M says, it seems that his wife sold her Canaf shares in February 2021 for 
a few thousand pounds. But that was based on the share price at the time and the business 
ability to trade international shares two years on, which wasnt the case with TSC in 2019, 
when Mr M closed his account.  In any case, I agree with the business, that theres no way of knowing for sure what Mr M 
wouldve done if hed been told that the shares had no value because they couldnt be 
traded. On balance, I think its more likely (than not) Mr M wouldve still gifted the shares and 
closed the account, rather than wait for an undetermined period of time to see if they would 
become tradeable  I note this wasnt his intention when he called TSC on 5 July 2019. 
In the circumstances, and on balance, Im not persuaded that the business is responsible for 
the losses claimed. Im mindful this complaint was brought only after Mr Ms wife sold her 
shares in what were materially different circumstances two years or so after Mr Ms sharegift. 
In my opinion that doesnt mean the business has done anything wrong such that this 
complaint should be upheld. 
In conclusion, I note that Mr M was sent notification on 8 November 2018, detailing the 
correct number of Canaf shares he held. On 5 July 2019, Mr M called TSC of his own 
volition, giving the impression that hed already decided what he wanted to do.   
Having listen to the call, Im satisfied Mr M was aware he held Canaf shares but didnt think 
they were worth anything. On balance, Im satisfied that Mr M decided, of his own volition, to 
dispose of his shares by way of sharegift, and that his wasnt something that the business 
advised him to do. 
Had Mr M asked a specific question or made an enquiry relating to the value of the shares, 
before he decided to close his account, I think its likely TSC wouldve dealt with his query. 
On balance, I think there was a reasonable assumption that any decision reached by Mr M 
was an informed decision because this was an execution only platform and TSC in 2019 
only did what it was asked to do.   
I appreciate Mr M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman