DRN-2932586
The complaint
Mr B and Miss B are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) declined their travel 
insurance claim
What happened
Mr B has a multi trip annual travel insurance policy taken out though his bank account. 
On 24 February 2020, Mr B called AXA to add his partner onto the policy and to find out 
about extending cover. He was told in the call that having a one-way flight would be covered 
for his trip to South America.
On 26 February 2020, Mr B went on his trip to South America with his partner (Miss B). They 
were due to return to the UK in around May 2020 although they hadnt booked a return flight. 
The Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised on 17 March that all UK nationals 
visiting the country where Mr B and Miss B were, should return home due to Covid-19 
pandemic. So, the trip was cut short and Mr B and Miss B returned to the UK.
Shortly after they returned, Mr B and Miss B submitted a claim for costs of the return 
transport and accommodation they incurred in South America and the UK. AXA declined the 
claim because Mr B and Miss B had booked a one-way flight only and because the journey 
return wasnt pre-booked. Unhappy with AXA, Mr B and Miss B made a complaint because 
they say AXA had agreed to insure them knowing they had a one-way flight booked and Mr 
B wasnt told they didnt have cover.
AXA responded and said the costs he incurred were unavoidable and he hadnt suffered 
financial detriment as he would have incurred those when hed planned to originally return 
home following his trip. It offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, Mr B and Miss B brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and said because a one-way flight was booked, the policy didnt 
have the scope to cover the costs Mr B and Miss B were claiming for as they werent 
pre-booked or pre-paid. 
Mr B and Miss B disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
So, its been passed to me. They say in summary:
They feel aggrieved that AXA cant cover at least some of the costs;
They asked AXA whether a one-way flight would affect the insurance and they 
werent told there was anything they couldnt claim for. They thought he had £5,000 
curtailment cover; and
They accept they would have returned home at some point but the costs he incurred 
were as a result of the FCO advice at the time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service is an alternative to the courts which settles disputes informally taking into
account what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The relevant rules and industry
guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And they
shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The key issue I need to decide is whether AXA applied the terms and conditions of the policy 
as it should have and whether, in doing so, it treated Mr B and Miss B fairly and reasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions
The policy booklet sets out the cover in the event of a cancellation or curtailment of a trip: 
Section A  Cancellation or curtailment charges and early return
What is covered
We will pay You up to £5,000 (inclusive of any valid claim payable under Section K  
Ski pack (and Section Q  Travel disruption cover)) for any irrecoverable unused 
travel and accommodation costs (including excursions up to £250) and other pre-paid 
charges (including green fees of up to £75 per day, up to a maximum of £300) which 
You have paid or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel 
expenses incurred if:
..
c. You have to make an early return. 
Additionally, I can see the policy booklet also sets out what is covered for On the way 
home:
We will pay You up to:
a. £5,000 for Your reasonable additional travel (including up to £200 for taxis and hire 
cars) and accommodation costs which are of a similar standard to that of Your pre-
booked travel and accommodation (for example full or half board, all inclusive, bed 
and breakfast, self catering or room only) that You cannot claim back from any other 
source.
So, the terms and conditions ordinarily allow for cover for curtailment of a trip and also for 
reasonable additional travel costs. 
Has AXA fairly declined the claim?
Mr B and Miss B are claiming for costs which they incurred while returning home to the UK 
following the FCO advice on 17 March 2020. 
Theyre specifically claiming for costs of the flights home, hotel costs, associated taxi costs, 
car hire costs to get home in the UK and rental costs for having to self-isolate when they 
returned to the UK. 
I appreciate that this must have been a worrying time and their aim at the time must have 
been to return home safely. I also understand the costs they incurred were significant. 
However, I have to look at the terms and conditions of the policy they were insured for and 
whether theyve been applied fairly and reasonably by AXA. Having done so, the key information is that in order for Mr B and Miss B to have a successful 
claim, the costs incurred would have had to be pre-booked or pre-paid. Because Mr B and 
Miss B had a one-way flight, any additional costs they incurred while returning home werent 
pre-booked or pre-paid. As such, Im not persuaded that AXA ought to pay the claim and 
cover all of the costs they are claiming for. 
Had the FCO not advised to return to the UK, Mr B and Miss B would have continued on 
their trip and its very likely the costs claimed for would have been incurred as part of the trip 
they planned. 
Mr B and Miss B have said their flight was delayed for 24 hours when returning to the UK. I 
can see the policy does provide cover in limited circumstances. From the information 
provided, my understanding is that the flight wasnt cancelled for one of those reasons given 
in the policy document. In any case, Mr B and Miss B can contact the airline regarding the 
flight delay as theres some protection under EU Air Passenger Rights legislation. He could 
also provide further information about the delay to AXA in relation to this point and wed 
expect AXA to consider those costs further.
Overall, though, in the circumstances here, I dont think AXA has unfairly declined the claim.
Phone call
Mr B has referred to the telephone call he had on 24 February 2020 with AXA. He says he 
was told that having a one-way flight wouldnt affect the insurance cover as long as they 
were returning to the UK as their final destination. Ive listened to the call and the context of 
the conversation was around potential claims for medical expenses or lost baggage. 
Covid-19 wasnt an issue that was widely impacting on international travel at that point and I 
dont think therefore Mr B was provided incorrect information. The conversation centred 
around what Mr B could claim for if he went on the trip with a one-way flight only. Im not 
persuaded the call mis-guided Mr B. 
Conclusion
Mr B and Miss Bs policy didnt extend as far as the costs of the return trip and associated 
costs because it doesnt provide cover if those costs arent pre-paid or pre-booked. I 
appreciate the trip didnt go as planned and the return costs were significant. However, 
taking everything into account, I dont think AXA declined Mr B and Miss Bs claim unfairly or 
unreasonably. As such, I dont require AXA to do anything further. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr B and Miss Bs complaint against AXA 
Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman