DRN-4062321
The complaint
Mr N complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Marsh Finance Ltd (who Ill call Marsh).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Marsh, but I think Mr N should be allowed to reject the car. Whilst I
agree with much of what our investigator has said, she didnt consider compensation for
distress and inconvenience and hadnt considered Mr Ns consequential costs. Im
considering them here.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr N acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Marsh, who are also the supplier
of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
The relevant legislation allows a business one opportunity to repair a car that is faulty when
supplied. Here theres no dispute that the car had a fault with the NOx sensor when Mr N
collected it from the dealer. The dealership accepted that the sensor could be replaced at a
third party garage and the work was completed on 12 May 2022, two weeks after Mr N had
collected the car.
I dont think that repair was successful as Mr N told Marsh it hadnt worked on 13 May 2022
when he asked to reject the car. His assertion has since been corroborated by a main dealer
who Ill call H.
The independent inspector summarised Hs position when he inspected the car in June
2022. He said:
The garage then explained that despite the AdBlue level being reset to the correct amount,
the software was at fault and didn't recognise the correct AdBlue level. They felt this was
due to the AdBlue being overfilled, due to previous faulty sensor which is a common issue in
this particular model of vehicle {sic}.
Marsh have suggested that Mr N therefore caused the problem by overfilling the AdBlue. I
dont think thats what the independent inspector or H are saying. They are saying that the
AdBlue was probably overfilled due to a faulty sensor. And if the sensor was faulty, as
seems most likely to be the case, Mr N wouldnt have known he was overfilling the reservoir
and cant fairly be held accountable for a fault thats subsequently occurred as a result of
that pre-existing fault.
Mr N asked to reject the car within the first 30 days and the relevant legislation allows him to
do so if there is a fault with the car, without giving the business an opportunity to complete a
repair. I think thats what should happen now.
Putting things right
Marsh should take the car back and end the finance agreement with nothing more to pay.
Mr N has had very limited use of the car and that use was hampered by issues with the NOx
sensor and the AdBlue sensor. I think Marsh should refund all of the finance instalments hes
paid (or waive them if they were due and havent been paid). Marsh will need to add interest
to the refund as Mr N has been deprived of the money.
Marsh should also remove any adverse information they may have reported to the credit
reference agencies.
Mr N has experienced some distress and inconvenience as a result of this issue. Hes had to
take the car to be fixed, wasnt kept mobile, and has had to escalate his complaint to this
service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. Mr N has also explained the impact
this has had on him, and I can understand the distress caused. In the circumstances I think
Marsh should pay him £300 in compensation.
It seems that the dealership paid for the repair work to the NOx sensor, but Mr N appears to
have paid £166.80 to H to diagnose the AdBlue sensor fault. That appears to be a cost that
Mr N wouldnt have incurred if it hadnt been for the fault with the car. So Marsh should
refund that expense, with interest, if Mr N can provide a receipt.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell Marsh
Finance Ltd to:
End the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr N.
Refund all finance instalments that have been paid (or waive any that were due and
havent been paid). Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the
date of settlement*.
Pay Mr N £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ns credit file about this
agreement.
Refund the cost of the diagnostic performed by H if Mr N can provide a receipt. Add
8% simple interest per year to the refund from the date of payment to the date ofsettlement*.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Marsh to take off tax from this interest. Marsh must give
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr N asks for one.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N accepted my provisional decision and Marsh didnt provide any additional comments. 
So, Ive not been provided with any additional information that would lead me to change my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Marsh Finance Ltd to:
End the agreement and collect the car at no cost to Mr N.
Refund all finance instalments that have been paid (or waive any that were due and
havent been paid). Add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the
date of settlement*.
Pay Mr N £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ns credit file about this
agreement.
Refund the cost of the diagnostic performed by H if Mr N can provide a receipt. Add
8% simple interest per year to the refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement*.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Marsh to take off tax from this interest. Marsh must give
Mr N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr N asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman