DRN-3999699
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage application Mr and Mrs S made to HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
They say HSBC misled them about how long the mortgage offer was valid for. As a result of 
what they say is wrong information on HSBCs part, they had to pay for storage and 
temporary accommodation whilst a new mortgage offer was generated.
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr and Mrs S and HSBC. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a response to the complaint, which has been shared with 
all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. Instead, Ill provide a brief 
summary of the key points, rounding any figures where relevant, and then focus on the 
reasons for my decision.
Mr and Mrs S were moving house, which involved redeeming their current mortgage and 
taking out a new one. It was envisaged that theyd port - that is, carry over  the interest rate 
product from the existing mortgage to the new one. Their new home was a new-build, with 
an uncertain completion date; the mortgage offer HSBC issued in May 2022 was valid for six 
months. 
In August 2022, Mr S spoke to HSBC on the phone, to say their buyer wanted to complete 
the purchase before theyd be able to move into the new house. The call handler told Mr S 
that they could sell first, redeem the existing mortgage, and pay an early repayment charge 
(ERC). The ERC would be refunded if they then completed their purchase and took the new 
mortgage (porting the interest product) within six months of redeeming the previous 
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S sold their existing home and repaid the mortgage, including an ERC of just 
over £270 in early October 2022. They moved into temporary accommodation and put their 
possessions into storage. By the time their new home became ready in late November 2022, 
HSBC explained the mortgage offer had now expired, as it was more than six months since 
the offer had been issued. Mr and Mrs S had to apply for the mortgage afresh; this caused a 
delay which meant they incurred extra expense for storage and accommodation, plus the 
replacement offer was at a higher interest rate.
When they complained, HSBC offered them £600 compensation, partly for misleading Mr S 
in the August 2022 phone call, but also to cover the ERC they paid on redemption of the 
previous mortgage. 
Our investigator thought HSBC had dealt with the complaint fairly, so didnt recommend any 
further redress. Mr and Mrs S have asked for the complaint to be reviewed and decided by 
an ombudsman. Whilst the case has been awaiting review by an ombudsman, Mr and Mr S 
have received some distressing news about Mr S health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive noted the news about Mr S health situation. I wont reveal the details here, in order to 
preserve his and Mrs S privacy. All I can say is that they have my sincere sympathy and 
good wishes. Discretion prevents me from saying anything further.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes listening to a recording of the phone call between Mr S and HSBC in 
August 2022. Having done so, what follows are my conclusions and the reasons for them.
The starting point here is that the mortgage offer HSBC issued to Mr and Mrs S in May 2022 
specified in bold type that the offer was valid until the expiry date given on the mortgage 
illustration. The expiry date given in the illustration was 16 November 2022. Both documents 
were prepared in accordance with the requirements of the FCA; Mr and Mrs S were given a 
copy of the offer, and so were their solicitors. So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs S knew, or 
should have known, that their mortgage offer had a finite lifespan.
Ive next considered whether the position theyd been notified of in writing, in a manner that 
met HSBCs regulatory obligations, was in any way modified (or at least contradicted) by 
what HSBC said to Mr S during the August 2022 phone call. In the complaint form to this 
service, Mr and Mrs S has said they were given a six-month extension to the mortgage offer 
during the call. Meanwhile, HSBC has said in its final response that it misled Mr S during that 
call, albeit it doesnt go into specifics about what it said that was wrong. 
Having listened to the call recording, I dont believe HSBCs call handler said anything that 
was incorrect, inaccurate or misleading; she certainly didnt say anything about extending 
the expiry date of the May 2022 mortgage offer. To me, the key thing is that the expiry date 
of the current mortgage offer was never part of the conversation; very simply, it never came 
up. The six-month window that the call handler spoke about related to how long after 
redeeming the existing mortgage Mr and Mrs S could still port the interest rate from it to a 
successor mortgage. 
On that topic, the information the call handler gave was accurate and, in my view, clear. Its 
possible Mr S inferred from this that the mortgage offer was being extended, but it isnt what 
was said. Had Mr S mentioned the expiry date of the mortgage offer, Id expect the call 
handler to explain that this was a separate deadline in its own right. But its not something on 
which Id expect the handler to give unsolicited advice.
Separate from this, HSBCs internal contact notes indicate it sent reminders of the expiry 
date to Mr and Mrs S (in the form of a text) and their solicitors (in the form of an email).
HSBC hasnt kept copies of the communications, and Mr and Mr S say they never received 
the text. Thats quite possible; electronic communication systems are no more fool proof than conventional mail. But I think the point is moot in any event. Sending reminders wasnt 
something HSBC had to do; the relevant information had already been provided in writing 
when the offer was issued. 
As for the new mortgage eventually completing on a higher rather than the previous 
mortgage, Ive kept in mind that the ported rate would have expired on 31 December 2022 in 
any event. That would have meant Mr and Mrs S looking for a new deal barely a month after 
completing on the ported rate. Interest rates have been on an upward trend, month by 
month, for about a year now. If Mr and Mrs S had ported their old rate, any new deal they 
chose to succeed it from 1 January 2023 would certainly have been higher than the new rate 
they chose to start in November 2022.
Mr and Mrs S have said the solicitors were recommended to them by HSBC. As a starting 
point, the Financial Ombudsman Service has no direct jurisdiction over the activities of a firm 
of solicitors. The exception is where a solicitor is carrying out a task on behalf of the lender. 
Where thats the case, the solicitor is acting as the lenders agent, in which such acts or 
omissions do come within our remit. 
Normally, in a purchase and mortgage transaction, solicitors have two clients, the purchaser 
and the lender, which means there are two discrete roles for the solicitors to carry out. 
Checking the expiry date of a mortgage offer and drawing the purchasers attention to it is 
something a solicitor does on behalf of the purchaser, not the lender. That means I have no 
remit to consider if the solicitors in this case did what they needed to do. Nothing Ive said 
should be inferred as a finding on what the solicitors did or didnt do.
HSBC has offered Mr and Mrs S £600 compensation; it has confirmed to us that the offer is 
still available. In all the circumstances, I think thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I think HSBC has admitted fault where it probably didnt need to. If no offer 
had been made, I would not have awarded more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mr and Mr S to decide whether, on further 
reflection, they wish to accept HSBCs settlement offer. If they do, they can either contact 
HSBC directly or let our investigator know and he will ask HSBC to make the arrangements.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 May 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman