DRN-1687118
 
complaint
Mrs R says Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs R bought the policy when she took out a personal loan in 1995. The loan included an 
amount to pay for the policy. The policy protected her repayments on the loan for up to 
twelve months if she became unemployed, and for up to the remaining term of the loan if she 
couldnt work because of an accident or sickness. The policy also provided her with life 
cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint, Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold over 25 years ago, so it isnt surprising that neither Mrs R nor Lloyds still 
have copies of the original paperwork completed at the time. I also have to take into account 
that memories can fade over time, and its not surprising that Mrs Rs wider testimony is that 
she remembers very little about these events. In cases like this, where the evidence is 
incomplete or contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that 
is, to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Lloyds has provided a sample loan agreement which it says was in use at the time the policy 
was sold. I think its more likely than not Mrs R was asked to sign an agreement like this to 
get her loan funds. On the loan agreement there is a section called Optional Loan 
Repayment Protection and it has Yes and No boxes in that section to indicate if cover was 
required. Mrs R ought to have understood that this was something she could say No to. So, 
I think its more likely than not Mrs R would have been aware she had a choice about buying 
the PPI policy and that she chose to take it out. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs R, so it needed to check that it was right for her. I think 
it was. Mrs R was eligible for the policy and the main exclusions around employment and 
pre-existing medical conditions didnt apply to her. 
Mrs R told us that she had no sick pay from her employer and no other means she could rely 
on in that eventuality, or if she lost her job. But a successful claim on the policy could have seen Mrs R covered for her payments for the remaining term of the loan if she was too 
unwell to work, or for up to 12 months if she lost her job. So, I think the policy was suitable 
for her circumstances at the time of the sale.   
Mrs R wouldve got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the policy 
early. I dont know if Lloyds thought about this when it recommended the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mrs R. But I havent seen anything to suggest at the time of 
the sale she thought shed repay the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt 
right for her  or that better information about this wouldve stopped her buying it. 
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. Lloyds didnt include 
information on the amount of interest which would be payable on the PPI policy over the loan 
term. But even if it had, I think Mrs R would still have bought it. Given how long the policy 
could have paid out for, if Mrs R made a successful claim she couldve got back quite a bit 
more than she paid for it. 
I cant be certain that Lloyds provided full information to Mrs R. But for the same reason that 
I think the policy was suitable, I dont think better information would have led Mrs R to avoid 
the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint about Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman