DRN-3019726
The complaint
Miss S complains about Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited and the way theyre looking 
to settle a claim made on her motor insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with the customer 
service shes received during the claim.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but for simplicity Ive just referred to 
Accredited in the decision as theyre responsible for it.
What happened
In July 2020 Miss Ss car was involved in an accident where she said another driver 
reversed out from a main road into her car while she was stationary in traffic. She spoke to 
Accredited on the day and was told her black box would prove she was stationary, so she 
wasnt at fault. Later on, Accredited offered to settle the claim on a split 50 / 50 liability basis, 
as there was no black box data for the time period in question  so they couldnt prove 
Miss S wasnt responsible for the accident.
Miss S is unhappy with this, as she says the claim made by the other party is fraudulent and 
she was never liable for what happened. She said shes tried to speak to Accredited on 
many occasions regarding this, but regularly not received call backs which shes found 
frustrating. So, she complained to Accredited.
They explained liability was something for them to decide, but as the black box didnt show 
any information for the relevant time period then there just wasnt enough evidence to 
defend the claim. They said they thought if it went to court itd be settled on a 50 / 50 liability 
basis, so thats why they offered that. In relation to the call backs, they said Miss S had 
raised that with them on 23 March 2021. They explained theyd emailed Miss S throughout 
the claim, but frequent call back requests hadnt happened. They said due to Covid-19 
restrictions itd been more difficult to provide timely call backs. They accepted theyd made 
an error, and offered £50, which they then increased to £100 when speaking to Miss S on 
the phone afterwards.
Unhappy with this, Miss S contacted us. She explained when the manager has asked what 
she wanted she said £1,000 as thats how much her premiums had increased by  and says 
she was told by the manager they might be able to do £500.
One of our Investigators looked into things, and overall felt the £100 awarded by Accredited 
was fair in the circumstances of Miss Ss case.
Miss S didnt accept it was appropriate for Accredited to offer a 50 / 50 liability, and because 
theyd told her they could award £500, she felt they should. Our Investigator explained its 
down to Accredited to decide liability, and she felt theyd done that fairly given the lack of 
evidence. And she said the £100 compensation was fair, because we wouldnt hold 
someone to incorrect information, instead wed look at the impact. But Miss S didnt accept 
this, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Liability
Only a court can decide whos liable for an accident such as what Miss S was involved in. 
But what our service can do is look to see whether Accredited considered things fairly.
I can see after the issues were raised, Accredited spoke to Miss S to understand more about 
what happened, and she mentioned the black box data would show she wasnt moving.
So, Accredited went to get this information. Unfortunately, it seems they sent this request to 
the wrong contact, leading to delays in getting access to the correct data. I cant see this led 
to any undue delays by Accredited on Miss Ss behalf, as the other partys insurer didnt 
send their information until after the black box data had been received anyway.
When they eventually did get the correct information, it didnt show any accident impact data. 
This was Miss Ss key piece of evidence to prove that she was stationary when the impact 
occurred  and the other party reversed into her, as shes said. But, the other partys version 
of events are that Miss S hit his car in the rear.
Accredited explained theres no evidence to prove either partys version of events, having 
got the black box data. With that in mind, they felt if the matter went to court then itd likely 
be settled on a 50 / 50 basis. Going to court would incur more costs.
Miss Ss policy says, in relation to liability:
We shall be entitled to conduct the defence or settlement of any claim and to instruct the 
solicitors of Our choice to act for You in any proceedings. In circumstances where it is 
considered appropriate to do so We will be entitled to admit liability on behalf of You or any 
person claiming under the policy. 
So, overall, I think Accredited have acted fairly in considering matters. Theyve listened to 
Miss Ss key argument, but unfortunately found nothing that would support it. So, with that in 
mind theyve offered the 50 / 50 split. My understanding is that, as at August 2021, the other 
partys insurer continues to dispute liability, and Accredited are taking the matter to court. As 
Miss S continues to dispute she should be held in any way liable, it would appear this is the 
only way to prevent her from being held fully at fault  as if Accredited dont dispute liability, 
then theyd have to record she was at fault for the accident.
This leads in to the additional costs of Miss Ss premiums. 
Ive seen shes said theyve increased by £1,000. Any incident or claim could lead to higher 
premiums costs being incurred  as well as the claim currently being ongoing - as those are 
things insurers will take into account when calculating the risk someone presents. I cant 
know if the premiums have been calculated correctly, and Miss S may wish to discuss that 
with her new insurer, but I dont think Accredited have done anything wrong in the way 
theyve handled things so far leading to that increase for her. So, I cant hold them 
responsible for it.
Compensation
Ive noted Miss S says Accrediteds manager said they might be able to do £500 but ended 
up awarding £100.Since this was discussed its become clear this wasnt likely something Accredited were ever 
going to award  as after looking into things fully they offered £50, before increasing the 
award to £100.
So, it would appear this is an error when Accrediteds manager said theyd potentially award 
£500. And, as our Investigator explained, we dont hold financial businesses to incorrect 
information  instead wed consider the impact on the individual of the incorrect information.
Accrediteds customer service has been poor at times  including call backs not happening. 
Miss S was also unhappy at being told about the liability decision over email. But I think most 
of Miss Ss frustration and disappointment relate to liability being decided as 50 / 50 as she 
feels quite strongly regarding this. Here, if I felt it was appropriate to award £500, then Id do 
so. But, overall, I think the £100 award is fair. My understanding is this amount has been 
paid to Miss S.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman