DRN-3520660
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Volkswagen 
Financial Services (VWFS) unfairly terminated his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mr Y acquired a car under a 48 month hire purchase agreement with VWFS in       
December 2020. Under the agreement, Mr Y was required to make 48 payments of £421.66, 
followed by a final payment of £13,095 if he wanted to keep the car. 
In October 2021, VWFS didnt receive the monthly payment due from Mr Y under the 
agreement. Mr Y called VWFS and let it know he had an unexpected bill but explained his 
financial circumstances would return to normal within a month. VWFS also carried out an 
income and expenditure with Mr Y to calculate his disposable income. It told Mr Y he could 
repay October 2021s outstanding monthly payment in November 2021 or he could split the 
outstanding amount owed over two additional monthly payments. 
Following this, VWFS tried to contact Mr Y unsuccessfully. In addition, it didnt receive the 
monthly payment owed under the agreement from Mr Y in November 2021. Mr Y contacted 
VWFS in late November 2021 and explained he was having work carried out to his house 
and so he wouldnt be able to pay the December 2021 payment either. VWFS agreed to 
apply breathing space until late January 2022. In December 2021, Mr Y told VWFS that he 
hadnt received the monthly salary he expected from his employer. In late January 2022, 
after the breathing space had expired, VWFS issued a default notice. It didnt hear from Mr Y 
and so it terminated the agreement in February 2022.
In March 2022, Mr Y contacted VWFS to enquire about setting up an arrangement to pay to 
clear the arrears. VWFS confirmed the agreement had been terminated. So Mr Y 
complained. He said he had told VWFS about his ongoing financial circumstances and he 
was under the impression it was allowing him time to bring his agreement back up to date.
VWFS issued its response to Mr Ys complaint, but said it had terminated Mr Ys agreement 
correctly due to the outstanding arrears owed under the agreement.
Unhappy with this response, Mr Y referred his complaint to this service. He said he had 
financial difficulties and so he missed five payments owed under the agreement. He said 
VWFS didnt provide him with any notice that it would be repossessing the car. And he said 
he only received the letters from VWFS about the contract being terminated in March 2022.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but didnt think VWFS had acted unfairly when it 
terminated the agreement. He said VWFS had attempted to discuss the account with Mr Y 
and provided him with sufficient notice that the account was in arrears and that the 
agreement may be terminated. VWFS agreed. But Mr Y disagreed.
As Mr Y remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. 
What I need to decide in this case is whether VWFS fairly terminated Mr Ys agreement. If it 
didnt, Ill need to think about whats fair to put things right.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ys agreement say, 10.1 We will be entitled to terminate this 
Agreement, on expiry of the requisite statutory written notice, if you are in breach of any of 
the terms of this Agreement.
This means that VWFS were entitled to terminate Mr Ys agreement if he missed payments 
and upon expiry of a default notice. Mr Y missed five payments in succession under his 
agreement. And so VWFS was entitled to default his agreement and repossess the car.  
Having said this, Mr Y told VWFS about the reasons why he couldnt make his repayments 
each month between October and December 2021, and so VWFS was obliged to treat Mr Y 
with forbearance and due consideration. So Ive considered whether I think it did this.
In October 2021, VWFS carried out an income and expenditure with Mr Y to ensure he could 
afford to split the October 2021 payment over two upcoming future payments. Mr Y had 
enough disposable income to afford this and he told VWFS his circumstances would return 
to normal the next month. So I think it was reasonable for VWFS to be satisfied that Mr Y 
would be able to afford to reschedule the payment in this way. So I think VWFS acted with 
forbearance and due consideration when it allowed Mr Y to do this.
Following this, Mr Y said he couldnt make the November or December 2021 payment due to 
him having work carried out on his house. So VWFS applied a three month breathing space 
until January 2022. I think it was reasonable for it to do this as Mr Y had proactively told it 
about the different reasons why he couldnt make the payments owed under the agreement 
and he had said his financial situation would improve by January 2022. As the 
circumstances Mr Y had described to VWFS appeared to be short term, I think it acted with 
forbearance and due consideration when it allowed Mr Y to have three months breathing 
space. 
However, following the three month breathing space being agreed, in December 2021, Mr Y 
told VWFS he hadnt been paid the salary he expected. But VWFS told Mr Y his breathing 
space was in place until 24 January 2022 and told him about the consequences of non-
payment at that point. Mr Y didnt make January 2022s payment and neither did he contact 
VWFS to explain why. And because Mr Y had missed three payments, VWFS issued a 
default notice on 25 January 2022. 
In its Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says a business can 
register a default after a customer is behind with their payments for three months. And that it 
expects businesses to register a default by the time a customer is six months behind with 
their payments. I consider this to be representative of good industry practice. And as a 
minimum would expect a lender to act in accordance with these principles when deciding 
whether to default a consumers account. 
Having thought about the dates here and the account activity, I think it was appropriate for 
VWFS to tell Mr Y about its intention to report a default to credit reference agencies when it 
did. This is because Mr Ys account had three months of arrears. And as Mr Y didnt make 
February 2022s payment or clear the arrears mentioned in the default notice by the date 
VWFS had mentioned, it was entitled to register that the account had defaulted as per the 
ICO guidance. It did this on 25 February 2022. Ive listened to the calls made to VWFS by Mr Y in November 2021 and December 2021. In 
both calls, VWFS clearly told Mr Y that he needed to speak to them to discuss arranging a 
payment plan when the breathing space ended. In both calls, it told Mr Y that it would issue 
a default notice and his agreement could be terminated and the car could be repossessed if 
Mr Y didnt call it to reach an arrangement to pay. During both calls, Mr Y said he understood 
this.  
I appreciate that Mr Y had told VWFS about the reasons why he didnt make the payments. 
However, the ICO guidance also states that if there is a temporary arrangement and 
payments arent maintained as per the temporary arrangement, a lender can still file a 
default as soon as a payment is missed  which is what happened. 
Mr Y didnt make any payments following the breathing space expiring and neither did he 
contact VWFS to discuss how to repay the arrears, before it defaulted the agreement and 
terminated it in line with its terms and conditions. This is despite VWFS sending Mr Y letters 
and text messages to tell him his agreement was in arrears. Mr Y says he didnt receive the 
text messages and neither did he receive the letters from VWFS until March 2022. However, 
the letters are addressed clearly and Im persuaded that they were sent on the dates they 
say they were. 
In addition to this, Mr Y confirmed during the calls in November and December 2021 that he 
was aware of the action VWFS would likely take, if he didnt arrange a repayment plan with it 
after the breathing space ended on 24 January 2022. As Mr Y didnt attempt to do this until 
March 2022, I dont think VWFS acted unfairly when it terminated the agreement.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ys complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman