DRN-3353929
The complaint
Mr Y complains that a car he bought was not of satisfactory quality. Because he paid for it in 
part using his Halifax credit card (issued by Bank of Scotland plc), he says that the bank is 
equally liable with the seller to put things right.  
What happened
In May 2021 Mr Y bought a used car from a dealer, which Ill call C. The car was seven 
years old and had a recorded mileage of nearly 85,000 miles. It cost £4,445, a small 
reduction on the advertised price. Mr Y used his Halifax credit card to pay £2,000 of the 
price. 
Mr Y said that the cars radio was not working properly and referred that matter to C. He was 
unhappy with the resolution C offered and made a claim against Halifax under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974. That issue was ultimately referred to this service. While we 
were considering it, Mr Y said that further issues had arisen with the car. The handbrake was 
not functioning properly, there was an oil leak, and the clutch was squeaking. Halifax said 
that it would consider those issues if Mr Y referred them to its section 75 team. We said that 
we would, if necessary, consider them as a complaint separate from that about the radio. 
When Mr Y did refer the new complaint to this service, one of our investigators considered 
what had happened. He accepted that Halifax was liable to Mr Y if there was a breach of 
contract on the part of C. He was not persuaded however that there was such a breach and 
did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr Y asked that an ombudsman review the 
case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y paid for the car in part using his credit card. The effect of section 75(1) of the 
Consumer Credit Act is therefore that, if Mr Y has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against C, he has a like claim against Halifax. The necessary conditions 
are met in this case. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 Mr Ys contract with C was to be read as including a 
term that the car would be of satisfactory quality, meaning the quality a reasonable person 
would expect in all the circumstances. Those circumstances include the cars age, mileage 
and price. This car was already seven years old, was a high mileage vehicle, and was 
significantly cheaper than a similar new car would have been. I think most reasonable 
people would not expect it be in perfect condition; indeed, they might expect it to need some 
repairs during the period of Mr Ys ownership. Some might be significant. 
In September 2021 Mr Y paid £55 for an oil and filter change. Our investigator contacted the 
mechanic who carried out this work and was told that it appeared to resolve an oil leak. I am 
satisfied that it did. I must therefore consider whether the need for this work just a few 
months after Mr Y bought the car means that it was not of satisfactory quality. 
I can understand why Mr Y might have been concerned by an oil leak, which could be an 
indication of a serious fault. However, the need for a change of oil and oil filters does not in 
my view mean that the car was not of satisfactory quality. They are matters of routine 
maintenance which can be put down to wear and tear, especially in a car of this age and 
mileage. I am not persuaded that the work done in September 2021 indicated that the car 
was not of satisfactory quality. 
In November 2021 Mr Y paid £324 to have the cars rear brake callipers replaced to resolve 
an issue with the handbrake. The work improved the efficiency of the brake so that it would 
pass an MOT test  an increase from 7% to 18%. The investigator noted however that the 
car had passed an MOT test shortly before it was delivered to Mr Y. Mr Y had used the car 
for some 8,000 miles in that time. The investigator thought therefore that the brake had been 
working properly at supply. He noted too that this was likely to be an item of wear and tear. 
I agree with the investigators assessment here. Whilst reaching the standard required to 
pass an MOT test does not mean a component (or the car) is of satisfactory quality, the 
background does suggest that the brake was in a different condition at the point of repair 
from what it had been at the point of sale. I agree too that brake callipers are items that 
might need replacing in a car of this age. 
As far as the clutch is concerned, the investigator noted that there was no evidence of a 
fault. Mr Ys statement that the clutch was squeaking might indicate a fault, of course, but 
there is no persuasive evidence to support that. In the circumstances, I do not believe that I 
can fairly say that Halifax has not dealt with this and the other issues Mr Y raised fairly.         
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Mr Ys complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman