DRN-2838836
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited has 
handled a claim under his legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2017, Mr M suffered storm damage to his property, so he made a claim on his home 
insurance. His insurer  who Ill refer to as L  instructed a contractor to repair the roof, but 
the leak continued and further damage was caused. So Mr M made a claim to DAS under 
his legal expenses policy to pursue action against L. 
DAS subsequently declined the claim on the basis that its panel solicitors werent satisfied it 
enjoyed reasonable prospects of success  which is a requirement for cover under the legal 
expenses policy. 
Mr M complains that:
the legal helpline advised him to decline an offer from L of £1,000,
L issued a complaint response giving Mr M six months to contact our service but due 
to the amount of time taken by DAS to action his claim, he missed the deadline and 
is now time barred to pursue his complaint about L with us,
he was initially told his case had reasonable prospects and that the solicitor would 
issue a letter of claim to L, but after a change of solicitor his claim was declined as 
having an insufficient chance of being successful,
DAS offered to pay compensation of £300 which he hasnt received. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied DAS had acted in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. And she didnt think it needed to do anything more. As Mr M 
didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that I may have condensed some of Mr Ms complaint points in far less detail and 
in my own words. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
anything  I havent. Im satisfied Ive captured the essence of the complaint and I dont need 
to comment on every point individually, or possibly in the level of detail he would like, in 
order to reach what I think is a fair outcome. This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service.
Legal advice
Mr M tells us that when he first made contact under his legal expenses policy, he spoke to 
the legal helpline who told him not to accept Ls offer of £1,000. As his claim went on to be 
declined, he feels this was inappropriate advice and hes lost out as a result.
Ive been provided with the call recording of Mr Ms first conversation with the legal helpline. 
This call lasts for over 30 minutes where Mr M provides the full details of his claim and a 
case is set up for him. At no point during this call did I hear that Mr M was told not to accept 
the offer. As such, I cant fairly uphold this part of his complaint.
Complaint time limits
Mr M initially raised his claim to DAS on 5 October 2017. And this was declined a week later 
as DAS said it was caught by a policy exclusion for claims relating to settlements payable 
under an insurance policy. Mr M didnt contact DAS again until 1 March 2018 when he asked 
for his claim to be reconsidered as a property damage claim.
I can see that L issued its complaint response letter on 20 October 2017, giving Mr M until 
20 April 2018 to contact our service. But he didnt contact us until February 2020.
As DAS had declined the claim prior to Ls complaint response, I cant see any reason to 
suggest that Mr M was under the impression that he needed to wait for DAS for anything 
before contacting our service. Instead, DAS didnt hear from Mr M for over four months 
during which time he couldve logged his complaint against L with us. 
For this reason, I cant fairly hold DAS responsible for this deadline being missed. 
Prospects of success
In May 2018, DAS agreed to consider the claim further as a breach of contract case. It 
instructed a panel solicitor  who Ill refer to as D. But in October 2018, D said it had a 
conflict of interest and couldnt act any further. So DAS passed the case to another panel 
solicitor  who Ill refer to as C.
In 2019, C advised DAS that the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. As this 
is a requirement for cover under the legal expenses policy, DAS declined the claim. 
I appreciate Mr M is disappointed with this outcome. Hes concerned about the change in 
opinions and that this may arise from solicitors not wanting to take on a big insurer like L. 
Firstly, I should be clear that I cant look into the conduct of a firm of solicitors. So if Mr M is 
concerned about their actions or advice, he should raise a complaint to them directly and 
subsequently to the Legal Ombudsman.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding due to a claims prospects of success, it 
isnt for me to evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, my role is to look at 
whether the insurer has acted fairly. So long as it has obtained advice from suitably qualified 
lawyers, I wont generally question its reliance on that advice, unless I think it was obviously 
wrong or factually incorrect. 
In Mr Ms case, DAS obtained advice from C who are suitably qualified. And unfortunately, 
that advice was that Mr Ms claim had a less than 50% chance of succeeding. Its not 
unusual for the prospects of a claim to change throughout its life as new evidence and 
information becomes available. So I dont think there was anything unusual here that 
shouldve caused DAS concern. Im satisfied it was entitled to rely on Cs legal opinion so it 
follows that I dont think DAS acted unfairly by declining the claim. 
CompensationIn DAS last complaint response letter dated 5 February 2020, it offered Mr M £300 
compensation in recognition of some delays and failings in its customer service. It asked 
Mr M to provide his bank details within five days, otherwise it would issue a cheque. Mr M 
says he hasnt received this payment. 
I would ask that if DAS hasnt made this payment, that it do so within 28 days. If it has, it 
should provide proof of doing so. In the event that it issued a cheque, it should check 
whether this has cleared. And if not, it should cancel the cheque and reissue a new one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint nor do I ask DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited to do anything other than pay the £300 compensation 
its already offered  if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman