DRN-1100647
The complaint
Mrs B says she was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
Mrs B took out a mortgage with Lloyds in 1997. At the same time she took out a regular 
premium MPPI policy to cover her repayments if she was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld because he didnt think 
there was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented as optional and 
thought that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mrs B. 
Mrs B disagrees. She says she didnt know she had the policy and never agreed to take it. 
So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
The sale took place over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly there is very little 
information available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis of what 
information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Lloyds needed to make it clear to Mrs B that she had a choice in taking the policy. Mrs B 
says this wasnt done but she hasnt provided any real specific details about the sale which 
is understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. And Lloyds havent given 
us any of the documents from the time of the sale. So I dont know exactly what was 
discussed about MPPI or how it was presented.
But from what I know about Lloydss sales documentation and processes at the time, I think 
its likely that it wouldve made Mrs B aware that MPPI was optional and that Mrs B had 
MPPI because she freely chose to take it rather than anything else. 
Ive not seen enough to say that she wasnt given a choice or that she didnt agree to buy it.
Im going to treat the sale as if it Lloyds advised Mrs B to take the policy  this puts her in the 
best possible position. What this means is that Lloyds not only had to provide information 
about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mrs B could make an informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend MPPI that 
the policy was suitable for Mrs Bs needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mrs B for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
 
Mrs B says that she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and had savings she 
could use to make her repayments if she couldnt work. But the policy wouldve paid 
out on top of any sick pay or savings and for potentially longer, covering her for up to 
12 months if she were unable to work due to accident or sickness or if she lost her 
job.
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs B in her circumstances 
especially considering she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think 
Mrs B wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs B at the time. 
And if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it.
 
I also need to consider whether Lloyds gave Mrs B information in a way which was clear, fair 
and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy out. 
I dont know if Lloyds did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mrs B has told us about her circumstances at 
the time, I think she wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if shed been given all the proper 
information.
So this means Mrs B isnt worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Lloyds.
 
 
 
 
 
 
My final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2019.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman