DRN-3313210
The complaint
Mr K has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) has refused to refund premiums 
after he was unable to access treatment.
What happened
Mr K has a private medical insurance (PMI) policy, underwritten by BUPA.
Mr K needed to have an operation which was authorised by BUPA in April 2020 but as a 
result of the Covid-19 pandemic, he wasnt able to have the operation until October 2020. 
This affected Mr Ks ability to work and so he lost income as a result.
Mr K called BUPA and was told that he would receive a rebate. But it offered one months 
premium when he was expecting a more substantial refund based on the length of time his 
operation was delayed by. He complained to BUPA and unhappy with its response, referred 
his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think BUPA had done anything wrong. 
Mr K disagreed and said BUPA failed to ensure he had understood what he was told about a 
premium rebate and he was expecting to receive a large amount of his annual premium back 
based on the number of months his operation was delayed by. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator. 
Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy as well as other relevant 
considerations, including the relevant law, rules and industry guidance.
Mr Ks operation was delayed by around six months as a result of the reduced availability of 
private facilities during the pandemic. BUPA offered Mr K a rebate of £107.67 but Mr K 
believes he should receive a rebate for all the days his operation was delayed by which is 
approximately 200 days. 
However, I dont think this is fair or reasonable, for the following reasons. 
If Mr K received a rebate of 200 days, this would suggest BUPA wasnt on risk at all 
for that amount of time. But that isnt the case. BUPA was still on risk whilst Mr K was 
waiting for his operation. In addition, Mr K still had access to virtual GPs and for any 
other issues which may have arisen within those 200 days.
Although BUPAs services were limited as a result of the pandemic, it didnt make it 
impossible for Mr Ks contract to be performed.
I appreciate Mr K feels that he should be provided with a refund of premiums when 
he wasnt able to access treatment. But insurance policies are intended to cover the 
risk of an event happening over the duration of the contract. Insurers are entitled to 
retain premiums to cover the risk, even if no successful claims are made. BUPA 
provided cover for the duration of the policy year and authorised treatment when it 
was requested. So it is entitled to keep the premiums paid.
I note Mr Ks earnings reduced as his self-employed work was affected by his 
eyesight problems. But I dont think thats something for which I can hold BUPA 
responsible. Mr Ks treatment was postposed as a result of private facilities being 
taken over by the NHS as a result of the pandemic. This temporarily affected BUPAs 
ability to provide the full range of services it would usually offer. This was an 
unprecedented and unforeseen event, beyond BUPAs control. 
BUPA has explained non-urgent treatment had to be postponed. And it had put 
additional services in place to assist customers during the pandemic including 
services such as virtual GPs and virtual consultations. 
BUPA provided a rebate of one months premiums to Mr K. And said that it would 
assess the financial impact of claims during the pandemic and pass back any 
exceptional benefit to its customers. It has confirmed it has commissioned an 
independent third party to review the way it allocates its rebate between its 
customers. And it will also carry out a final review. I think this is fair. 
Mr K says BUPA gave him an expectation that he would receive a refund of 
premiums for all the months his operation was delayed. And so he doesnt think 
BUPA has acted with due care, skill or diligence. But I dont think thats the case. 
Ive listened to the call Mr K has referred to in which the adviser said BUPA would do 
calculations, when the Covid-19 situation was over, on how long this had been 
affecting members, and it would offer each member a rebate. Mr K thanked the 
adviser but said that wasnt quite the question hed asked and he wanted to ask 
about no claims discounts. 
I dont think the adviser acted without due care, skill or diligence. He gave very 
general information about the rebate. As the Covid-19 situation was ongoing, Mr K 
still had access to BUPAs services and so Im satisfied he wasnt affected 
throughout the whole period he is claiming a rebate for.
Mr K says the adviser should have checked that he understood what he was being 
told. But Mr K confirmed he was asking about his no claims discount and the adviser 
went on to discuss and clarify the effect of no claims further. And so Im satisfied that 
the adviser handled the call reasonably.
I appreciate Mr K will find my decision disappointing. But I cant fairly ask BUPA to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman