DRN-3780145
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) reported a 
protected trust deed (PTD) on his credit file.
What happened
On 16 April 2016, Mr C was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. He paid an advance payment of £10,751, and the agreement was for £24,866 over 
49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £334.87 and a final payment of £14,036.25 if he 
wanted to keep the car.
Mr C was in financial difficulties and, in April 2019, he entered into a Trust Deed (which 
became a PTD when his creditors didnt object). Because of the terms of the PTD, Mr C 
handed back the car to VWFS, and voluntarily terminated (VT) the agreement. At the time he 
was £669.74 in arrears with VWFS, and VWFS charged him £1,472.18 for exceeding the 
allowed mileage and for damage that fell outside normal wear and tear. Mr C made nominal 
interim dividend payments to VWFS under the PTD.
Mr C complained to VWFS that they were still reporting on his account to the credit 
reference agencies, and that they should be showing either the VT or shouldve defaulted 
the agreement. VWFS said that Mr Cs credit file was showing correctly  the agreement had 
been terminated, but he was still paying off the outstanding amount. 
Mr C wasnt happy with VWFSs response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation. 
Our investigator said that not all credit reference agencies report information the same way, 
but from the information shed seen she was satisfied that VWFS were reporting the correct 
information to the agencies. And she said that the PTD doesnt mean that the agreement 
shouldve automatically been defaulted. So, she didnt think VWFS needed to do anything 
more.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He said that hed proactively taken steps to deal with 
his financial situation by entering the PTD, which means that this will be reported on his 
credit file for nine years (the three years of the PTD and six years following discharge). And 
he doesnt think this is fair because, had he done nothing, the agreement wouldve been 
defaulted, and the default wouldve disappeared from his credit file after six years.
Because Mr C didnt agree with the investigator, hes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr C was supplied with a vehicle under a 
hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The circumstances of Mr C entering into the PTD arent in dispute here, nor is the fact that, 
under the terms of the PTD, he returned the car. As such, my decision will concentrate on 
the point of contention  what VWFS are reporting to the credit reference agencies, and 
what I would reasonably expect them to report.
Mr C has provided a copy of a multi-agency credit report, which shows how three separate 
credit reference agencies are showing his agreement with VWFS. Agency T are showing the 
agreement as being VTd in June 2019, and Agency Q are showing unclassified payments 
from this date. However, Agency X are showing that Mr C has been in arrears since May 
2019. Ive also noted that the three agencies arent entirely consistent with how they report 
other entries on Mr Cs credit file.
Im aware that VWFS send the same information to all of the credit reference agencies, and 
its clear that the agencies have interpreted this information differently. However, as its clear 
that two of the agencies are reporting either a VT or no arrears, I cant hold VWFS 
responsible for Agency X reporting the fact that Mr C still owes VWFS money, as his account 
being in arrears. And this is something Mr C will need to take up with Agency X.
Turning to whether VWFS shouldve defaulted the agreement, theres no obligation for them 
to treat a PTD as a default. And just because other credit providers have chosen to do this, it 
doesnt mean that VWFS have acted unreasonably by not doing so.
Ive noted Mr Cs comments that, by entering the PTD, his credit file is adversely affected for 
longer than it wouldve been had he not entered the PTD and let the agreement with VWFS 
be defaulted. And I appreciate the frustration and upset this would cause him. However, the 
credit file hes provided, under the section headed insolvencies, says any insolvency 
records such as  protected trust deeds  remains on your credit report for six years, even 
if the insolvency is discharged.  Ive noted that all the agencies are reporting the PTD as 
being registered on 26 April 2019, with a discharge date of April 2025.
Based on this information, Im satisfied that the PTD will be reported on Mr Cs credit file for 
six years, the same as a default wouldve been reported for. And, when the PTD finishes, 
anything Mr C still owes VWFS will be written off and the agreement reported as satisfied by 
Agency X. As such, I cant agree that Mr C has been disadvantaged by what has happened. 
And I wont be asking VWFS to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint about Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 Andrew Burford
Ombudsman