DRN-1035948
complaint
Miss J says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 21 loans MYJAR provided to Miss J between April 2014 and May 
2017. The loans ranged between £100 to £600.  
MYJAR made an offer on loans 5-9 when the complaint was referred to our service. Our 
adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that MYJAR needed to do more. The 
adjudicator explained that loans 10 onwards shouldnt have been given to Miss J as the 
pattern of lending suggested she had become reliant on short term lending. The adjudicator 
also thought MYJAR needed to do more than it had offered to do on loans 5-9 and loan 19.
MYJAR didnt agree and said the adjudicator had not properly considered its submissions or 
explained his rationale. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached the case was passed to me  an ombudsman - to 
reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of 
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that 
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable).
 There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to 
establish whether Miss J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow 
this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments 
sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt think MYJAR needed to more when it approved loans 1 to 5 and 
loans. Miss J didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion about these loans so I wont 
be making further findings on them although I will consider them when looking at Miss Js 
overall financial situation. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending history with Miss J, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Js case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 7. I say this because:
At this point MYJAR ought to have realised Miss J was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss J had taken out 7 loans within 6 months. MYJAR made an 
offer on loans 5-9 but I think the pattern of lending beyond this point also 
demonstrated Miss J was becoming dependent on short term lending as the gaps 
between loans werent significant enough to demonstrate Miss J was managing her 
finances effectively. So MYJAR ought to have realised it was more likely than not 
Miss J was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was 
leaving in her finances and that Miss Js indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
 
Miss Js first loan was for £100 and loan 7 was for £100 so there was no decrease in 
the amounts Miss J needed. At this point MYJAR ought to have known that Miss J 
was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an 
ongoing need. And by loan 10 Miss J was borrowing greater amounts. 
 
Miss J wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed MYJAR. Loan 21 was 
taken out over two and a half years after Miss Js first. And it was for a larger amount. 
Miss J had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to MYJAR over 
an extended period.
 I think that Miss J lost out because MYJAR continued to provide borrowing for loans 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Js indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Miss J borrowed was likely 
to have had negative implications on Miss Js ability to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
I can see MYJAR has made an offer on loans 5-9 and loan 19. Im upholding the complaint 
about loans these loans and the loans that havent been included by MYJAR, so loans 10 
onwards and loans 20 onwards. MYJAR should put things right.
putting things right  what MYJAR Limited needs to do
refund all interest and charges that Miss J paid from loan 5 onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about loan 5 and 6 from Miss Js credit file;
the number of loans taken from loan 7 means any information recorded about them 
is adverse. So all entries about loan 7 to 21 should be removed from Miss Js credit 
file.
 
*HMRC requires you to take off tax from this interest. If Miss J asks MYJAR for a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off, MYJAR should provide this. If MYJAR 
intends to use the refund to reduce an amount Miss J owes, MYJAR must do this after tax.
my final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Miss Js complaint. MYJAR Limited should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Chandni Green
Ombudsman