DRN-2418355
The complaint
 Mr H complains that FairFX PLC failed to make a sizeable exchange transaction for him, 
and as a result, his family holiday was ruined.
What happened
 On 17 June 2019 Mr H made a very sizeable wire transfer, of almost $13,000 US dollars
(USD), to FairFX. He had already booked a foreign currency exchange through FairFX, into
UK pounds (GBP) and he expected to receive £10,516. He told us he was flying to the UK
with family for an extended holiday, and he was planning to put this money into his UK
account to spend during that holiday.
But Mr H told us the money didnt arrive. Instead, the money was lost for eight weeks. His
bank had confirmed it had arrived at FairFXs bank, but FairFX couldnt find it. So he said his
family was forced to live sparingly on the money that was already in his UK account. He said
they had to scale back many planned activities, and he feels this ruined the trip for him and
his family.
Mr H told us he spent around 30 hours making calls, trying to find out where his money had
gone. He said that all the time he spent contacting all the parties involved and trying to find
the money ruined the holiday. Fortunately Mr H didnt have to pay for all the international
calls himself. His money was eventually returned to the sending bank.
FairFX made a loss selling back the currency it had bought for Mr H, so it charged him for
not completing his exchange transaction.
FairFX said that this couldve gone better. It has discovered that the delay was caused
because its bank was contacting it using out of date details. It asked Mr H what he wanted,
to put things right.
Mr H said he paid about £60 in international charges for using an overseas card, and was
charged a little over £300 for the transfer and exchange FairFX made for him. He wanted
FairFX to waive the fee it had charged him, and to pay a total of £2,000 for him, his spouse
and children, to make up for the disappointing holiday.
After some discussion, FairFX said it would pay £350, and refund the fee of £344.57 it had
charged Mr H for failing to complete his transaction.
Our investigator thought that this complaint should be upheld. She said FairFX was
responsible for what had gone wrong here. She thought it should waive the full fee it charged
Mr H, of £344.57, as the deal wasnt successful. It should pay Mr H £750 in compensation. It
should repay all the charges Mr H incurred as a result of having to use an overseas card on
his trip to the UK, if Mr H can evidence those to FairFX, and it should pay statutory interest
of 8% simple on the amount Mr H transferred to FairFX, until the date it was returned to him.
FairFX didnt agree. It said it hadnt received any request to refund charges, so it hadnt
asked for evidence of charges. But it agreed costs wouldve been incurred, so it said it would
pay these. It had calculated statutory interest at £70.65, and it would pay that. It doesnt
appear, at this stage, that FairFX was also still offering £350 in compensation.
FairFX said it thought that compensation of £750 was significantly more than it had ever
been asked to pay by our service before. It wanted to know how our investigator had
reached this figure. It said it would like this case to be considered by an ombudsman, so the
case came to me for a final decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr Hs transaction clearly failed, and FairFX has accepted that its bank caused this 
problem, because it was using outdated contact details to get in touch with FairFX. I 
agree with our investigator that its reasonable for FairFX to carry at least some 
responsibility for the actions of the bank it chooses to use. Because the failure of this 
transaction was in no way Mr Hs fault, I dont think he should pay the £344.57 fee 
that FairFX charges for a failed transaction.
FairFX has offered to pay statutory interest at £70.65, and also to pay any charges 
that Mr H incurred on his other current and credit card accounts, borrowing money to 
pay for his holiday. But I dont think that its fair to ask FairFX to pay both for the 
costs of borrowing, and interest on the missing money.
If Mr Hs money hadnt gone missing, he wouldnt have incurred the costs of 
borrowing. Hed have spent that for his trip. So its fair to ask FairFX to pay that.
But Mr H wouldnt also have invested that money. He was planning to spend it. So I 
dont think FairFX also has to pay back interest that Mr H lost out on by not being 
able to invest the missing money.
I have looked at the statements Mr H has sent, and I think a payment of £75 would 
be a fair amount to cover charges Mr H incurred.
Ive also considered how to compensate Mr H for the effect that this missing money 
had on his holiday. Mr H suggested £2,000 in compensation, given the impact on his 
whole family. But, as our investigator said, Im not able to take account of the effect 
this had on his family. They are not customers of FairFX, only Mr H is. And the 
legislation that empowers our service to make awards, also limits those awards to 
compensation for the effect on the customer themselves. I cant make any direct 
award for the impact on Mr Hs family.
Ive considered the impact Mr H has described, and set this in the wider context of 
awards our service makes. Mr H says that his holiday was severely curtailed, 
because hes financially prudent, and didnt want to risk spending extra money while 
this money was missing. But Mr H and his family did still have a holiday, and I dont 
think an award of £2,000 in this case would be consistent with awards Ive made in 
other cases.
Ive considered this case carefully, and I think the amount of £350 which FairFX 
initially offered is a fair and reasonable amount to settle this complaint, when taken 
with the additional payments Ive set out above. So thats what I now propose to 
award.I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
FairFX said it had nothing to add. Mr H didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
 My final decision is that FairFX PLC must -
refund Mr Hs charges of £344.57,
pay Mr H £75 to cover the costs of his borrowing, and
pay Mr H £350 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman