DRN-2608704
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about her Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) current 
account. She was unable to make any online banking payments and M&S were unable to 
resolve the issue.
What happened
In 2020, Mrs L switched from her previous bank to an M&S current account. However, she 
found she was unable to make payments using her online banking. Whenever she tried, she 
got an error that the M&S staff didnt recognise.
M&S raised a fault with their IT department but werent able to say what the problem was or 
how long it might take to resolve. They paid Mrs L £75 compensation.
Because of this issue, 15 days after opening her M&S account, Mrs L began the process to 
switch to another bank.
I sent Mrs L and M&S a provisional decision on 15 February 2021, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think M&S should pay some further compensation here  
Ill explain why.
Mrs L explained that she primarily did her banking online, so being unable to make online 
payments was a serious limitation for her. Because of her circumstances it was a struggle for 
her to go into branch  and in the pandemic situation it seems rather reasonable that she 
avoided going into branch anyway. She felt uncomfortable doing all her transactions over the 
phone. And it was generally inconvenient to have to phone up and wait each time she 
needed to make a payment, instead of being able to just do it online in the normal way.
I understand M&Ss point of view. They feel they werent given sufficient time to resolve the 
problem, since Mrs L switched her account away again. But it doesnt look like they made 
any significant progress in the time they did have. And theyve now said it couldve taken 
months to resolve this, and I dont think it would have been reasonable to expect Mrs L to 
wait so long. So if anything, it seems rather fortunate that Mrs L switched away when she 
did, otherwise this could still be dragging on now. And in any case, it seems perfectly 
reasonable for her to have changed bank when her first experience with M&S was that her 
account wasnt working properly.
Ultimately, M&S failed to provide one of the key services that Mrs L signed up for. And the 
service that was malfunctioning happened to be one of the most important ones for her. 
M&S were not able to provide Mrs L with any explanation of what had gone wrong, nor any 
timescales about when it might be resolved, which only added to her worry and uncertainty. 
From what I can see, this all caused Mrs L a fair amount of stress, meant she had to spend a 
good deal of time on the phone, made it that much harder to make her necessary payments, 
and caused her to go through the inconvenience of a subsequent account switch  having 
only just done one.
I can see that M&S tried to resolve things by escalating the issue and paying some 
compensation. But I dont think that £75 quite reflects Mrs Ls trouble and upset here. 
I propose that they pay her a further £125, to bring the total to £200. I think that would be 
more in line with our guidelines around compensation.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. Mrs L let us know she had 
nothing further to add and was glad wed understood the basis of her complaint. M&S said 
they accepted the proposal to pay Mrs L the further compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides appear to have broadly accepted the provisional decision, and neither party sent 
in any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as before.
Putting things right
I direct Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc to pay Mrs L a further £125, to bring the total 
compensation to £200.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ls complaint and direct Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc to put things 
right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman