DRN-2741580
The complaint
Mrs N complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant) lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
What happened
Mrs N was given a single loan by Avant. She borrowed £6,000 in April 2016 and agreed to 
repay the loan in 48 monthly instalments. Mrs N told Avant that she intended to use the loan 
to consolidate some other debts. Mrs N appears to have faced some problems meeting her 
repayments on the loan and a balance remained outstanding when she made her complaint.
Mrs Ns complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think the checks 
Avant had done before agreeing the loan had been proportionate. And he thought that better 
checks would have shown the lender that it was unlikely Mrs N would be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable manner. So he didnt think the loan should have been agreed and 
asked Avant to put things right.
Avant didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mrs N accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Ns complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Avant gave this loan to Mrs N required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Avant had to think about whether repaying 
the credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs N. In 
practice this meant that Avant had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause 
Mrs N undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Avant 
to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact 
of any repayments on Mrs N. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether Avant did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mrs N.
Avant gathered some information from Mrs N before it agreed the loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal expenditure. It used a third-party application to verify 
what Mrs N had said about her income. And it checked her credit file to understand how Mrs 
N was managing her existing credit, and what amounts she had outstanding.
Mrs N was entering into a significant commitment with Avant. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of four years. So I think it was right that Avant wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Ns financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks Avant did achieved that 
aim. I think Avants checks were proportionate.
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to 
react appropriately to the information that is shown by those checks. That will sometimes 
prompt a lender to undertake further checks before agreeing the loan. Or sometimes it will 
lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. And that is what I think should have 
happened in the case of Mrs Ns application.
The credit checks that Avant performed showed that Mrs N was already servicing a 
significant amount of other credit. At the time the loan was agreed the checks identified she 
held twelve other credit accounts  she had five separate credit cards, two catalogue 
shopping accounts, two unsecured loans and three bank accounts, two of which were 
overdrawn. In terms of her credit card and catalogue shopping accounts Mrs N was utilising 
96% of her available credit limits. That level of debt suggests that Mrs N was facing serious 
problems managing her money at the time she applied for the loan.
I appreciate that Mrs N told Avant that she wanted to use the loan to consolidate some of her 
other borrowing. And I think it was entirely reasonable for Avant to rely on what Mrs N had 
said about the reason for the loan. By consolidating some of her other debt Mrs N would 
most likely reduce the amount she was needing to pay each month on her credit accounts.
But at the time she asked for the loan Mrs Ns outstanding credit amounted to almost 
£19,000. Since the loan Avant agreed to give to her was for £6,000 Mrs N would still be left 
with a significant amount of debt that she would need to service at the same time as 
repaying her loan from Avant. And given the nature of that debt it is likely that Mrs Ns 
repayments would have been significantly greater than the amount she told Avant she had 
left over each month.I think the results of the credit check clearly showed Avant that it was unlikely that Mrs N 
would have sufficient disposable income each month to meet her existing credit 
commitments  let alone to take on another expensive loan that would need to be repaid for 
a further four years. I dont think it was reasonable for Avant to conclude that Mrs N would be 
able to make her repayments in a sustainable manner, and so I dont think it should have 
given her this loan. Avant needs to put things right for Mrs N.
  
Putting things right
I dont think Avant should have agreed to lend to Mrs N in April 2016. I dont know whether 
Mrs N has yet repaid this loan. If the loan has been repaid Avant should;
refund all the interest and charges Mrs N paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ns credit file in relation to the loan
If a balance remains outstanding Avant should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mrs N made towards this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mrs Ns loan account as Ive directed results in Mrs N effectively having 
made payments above the original capital borrowed, then Avant should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mrs Ns loan account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind Avant that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mrs N for the remaining principal.
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ns credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant to take off tax from this interest. Avant must give 
Mrs N a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ns complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to put 
things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
  
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman