DRN-3880354
The complaint
Mr P complained, via a claims management company (CMC), that Zurich Assurance Ltd 
provided unsuitable investment advice when it recommended an investment which he feels 
was too risky for him. He is also unhappy that he was sold life cover at the same time. To put 
things right, Mr P wants more compensation than Zurich has offered to pay.  
The investment advice was provided by a financial business trading under a different name. 
But, to keep things simpler, as Zurich is responsible for dealing with the complaint I will refer 
to it as the financial business that provided the advice and sold the investment complained 
about. 
What happened
In December 1999, Mr P was advised by Zurich to invest £100 per month into the Maximum 
Investment Plan (MIP) with the funds invested in the Business Managed Fund - which he 
did. The MIP was for 10 years and started 1 December 1999.
Mr P paid £12,000 into the MIP and he received £13,243.55 when it matured at the end of 
the ten year term on 1 December 2009, making a £1,243.55 return.
Mr P mainly complained that he was sold life cover when he was only looking to save and 
said that the Managed Fund was unsuitable for him as it was based 75% on equity 
investment even though Zurich hasnt provided any record of his attitude to risk at the time. 
He was also unhappy with the MIPs performance and the impact of life cover and charges 
on the return he received. Additionally, he complained that he had expressed an interest in 
an Individual Savings Account (ISA) but said this wasnt even explored with him.  
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. It said the MIP was suitable for investors who were 
prepared to take some amount of risk and although it had no record of Mr Ps attitude to risk 
at the time, it had assessed his position at the point the plan was recommended, based on 
the information held. Zurich said it was satisfied that, taking into account Mr Ps disposable 
income and portfolio of shares, along with his existing savings, he would have been 
prepared to take some risk with his money and so the Managed Fund had been suitable for 
him.Zurich didnt agree that it had failed to deal fairly with Mr P when he had enquired about 
an ISA.  
In response to the concerns Mr P had raised about the return from the plan and the impact 
of charges and the cost of life cover, Zurich said the plans performance shouldnt be 
assessed with the benefit of hindsight. So far as the life cover was concerned, Zurich said it 
believed Mr P was made fully aware that the plan contained life cover and he was prepared 
to accept this as a means of receiving his funds free of tax after the end of the ten year term. 
But, as a gesture of goodwill, it said it would like to offer a return of the life cover costs  with 
interest. 
Mr P didnt feel this response went far enough to put things right so he brought his complaint 
to us. 
In brief summary, our investigator felt that Mr P had been in a position to be able to invest 
£100 per month and that the MIP had not been unsuitable for him given his needs and 
investment objectives and his financial situation at the time.
Whilst she thought that Mr Ps primary goal was to save rather than have life cover she said 
that Zurichs offer to refund the life cover premiums with interest would put him in the 
position he would have been in had he not taken out the life cover. So our investigator said 
she wouldnt be asking Zurich to do anything further. 
Zurich made no further comment.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigator. On his behalf, his representative said the make-up of 
the fund was not suitable for a medium risk investor, being heavily weighted in equities and 
therefore highly volatile and it did not provide the balance that Mr P was looking for. It didnt 
agree that simply because Mr P had a share portfolio it meant he wanted his savings plan to 
be high risk, particularly when no discussion took place around establishing what sort of risk 
he wanted and no explanation was provided regarding the make-up of the fund. It said by 
recommending further funds in a high risk area Mr P had no proper diversification with his 
investments and savings. And it didnt feel our investigator had correctly understood the 
financial advisers obligation to refer Mr P to another financial adviser for advice about ISAs 
or the impact on Mr Ps investment return of charges, including what he paid for life cover.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Although the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt always have power to investigate 
complaints about events that happened more than six years ago, Zurich has consented to us 
looking into Mr Ps complaint about what happened in 1999 when it recommended this plan. 
So, I am satisfied that I can consider the complaint.
Ive looked carefully at the point of sale paperwork that Zurich has provided, including the 
Fact Find carried out by Zurichs financial adviser at the time. Mr P was one of two adult 
householders bringing in an income. He was employed in a secure job with a net income of 
£1,500 per month and he had many years ahead of him before he reached state pension 
age, giving Mr P the possibility of plenty of earning potential.  
Theres no detailed expenditure information. However, theres nothing to suggest that Mr Ps 
living costs and other financial needs and requirements werent covered out of income. The 
adviser recorded that Mr P had access to £200 per month disposable income which was 
available for investment purposes. 
Mr P jointly owned the home he lived in, worth £270,000, subject to a £40,000 mortgage. 
Mr P told the financial adviser he had a joint interest in a share portfolio valued at £70,000 
and £10,000 on deposit in the bank/building society.
He said he was seeking investment advice because he was interested in a regular savings 
plan and possibly an ISA. 
I find that Mr P had sufficient financial resources to be able to absorb some element of loss 
in pursuit of capital growth. In other words, he was able to take some element of risk when 
investing. I consider that Mr P was in a strong enough financial position to be able to invest 
£100 per month as part of his overall investment plans. 
Mr P states that investment in the MIP represented too great a risk for him. The point of sale 
paperwork Zurich has provided doesnt indicate what Mr Ps preferred risk approach was. 
But thats not enough of a reason for me to uphold this complaint, unless I am also satisfied 
that the MIP exposed Mr P to more risk than he wouldve felt comfortable taking, making this 
investment unsuitable for him. 
It would have been reasonable for the adviser to consider Mr Ps experience of managing 
money when advising on investments. I consider its likely that Mr P would have had some 
understanding of risk based on his own investment experience, particularly his existing share 
portfolio. So I find it was reasonable for Zurich to recommend a risk-based investment to 
Mr P.Based on Mr Ps recorded investment objectives of providing a cash lump sum at the end of 
ten years and his circumstances at the point of sale, my view is that the fund Zurich 
recommended to him was suitable for his needs at the time. It gave Mr P the possibility of 
achieving capital growth over the medium term he was looking to invest at a level of risk that 
overall I consider was appropriate for him and that he had already demonstrated he was 
comfortable with.
Mr P already had adequate savings on deposit, enough to provide a financial cushion in the 
event of emergency spending needs arising. He already had other investments in equities so 
I think he would have likely understood that these could tend towards volatility and returns 
were not guaranteed. I think its reasonable to infer from this that Mr P would have 
appreciated that the MIP wasnt guaranteeing him an investment return  but that it offered 
him a chance of making a return over and above the comparable return he could expect 
from investment in less risky investments. 
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account how Mr Ps investment in the MIP fitted in 
with his overall investment position  and whether it tipped the balance towards too much 
exposure to risk or meant Mr Ps overall risk exposure didnt properly reflect a level of risk 
that felt comfortable for Mr P. 
I can understand why Mr P feels his investment might have done better in a deposit based 
savings account which would have also been lower risk than the MIP. But even if the MIP 
didnt deliver the returns he might have hoped for when he made the investment, the way the 
investment performed is outside the scope of this complaint  I am looking at whether the 
MIP was a suitable recommendation for Mr P when he was advised to invest in it. 
I consider this investment, recommended for Mr P as part of his overall portfolio, was 
suitable for Mr Ps needs. The MIP was suitable for investors who were prepared to take 
some amount of risk and it was designed to maintain a spread of investments both by asset 
type (equities, property, bonds and deposits) and by economy (primarily the United 
Kingdom, but also globally) to produce real growth over the longer term. This diversification 
and spread limited Mr Ps overall risk exposure. I think it was reasonable to think at the time 
that the funds performance to date meant it could offer Mr P the chance to keep pace with 
inflation over the medium to long term by investing in funds with holdings in equities and 
bonds and maximise his chances of achieving his investment goal of having the lump sum 
he hoped for in ten years time. 
I've taken into account Mr Ps concerns about Zurichs failure to even discuss his interest in 
having an ISA  but I havent seen enough to be able to say that Zurich acted unreasonably. 
Zurich has explained that its adviser would have told Mr P there wasnt a suitable ISA 
product available in the range of products he could offer and provided Mr P with information 
setting this out. I think its reasonable to say that Mr P would have been aware he needed to 
follow up the possibility of taking out an ISA elsewhere if he had wanted to explore that 
possibility further. 
The life cover was a very small cost and linking it to the MIP meant that Mr P gained a tax 
advantage. But as a gesture of goodwill, Zurich has already offered to refund the life cover 
premiums with interest.Its my understanding that this offer is still available to Mr P. This offer matches the redress 
I would award if I were to uphold this part of the complaint. So, as things stand, I dont feel 
I need to make any findings or say more about the life cover since the effect of Zurichs offer 
is to put Mr P into the position he would have been, had he not taken out the life cover in the 
first place. 
If Mr P hasnt already done so, he should contact Zurich direct if he wishes to take up the 
settlement proposals set out in its final response letter. 
In coming to my provisional decision, I've taken into account what Mr Ps representative has 
said about the ombudsman approach in other cases. But this doesnt affect the outcome of 
this case. We look at each case on its own merits and the particular facts of each case are 
different. What happened in other cases isnt a reason for me to change the outcome here. 
To sum up, I find that the MIP met Mr Ps identified needs and investment objectives and 
was not too risky for Mr P or otherwise unsuitable. And as Zurichs offer is fair and 
reasonable to put things right in any event, I havent made any findings on whether life cover 
was mis-sold.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
On Mr Ps behalf, the CMC reiterated his concerns as follows:-
regulatory requirements state that a firm should take all reasonable steps to 
determine what level of risk the client wishes to take before investing. There is no 
evidence of this happening. It is not reasonable to simply make an assumption here 
because if that is the case there was no point in producing legislation for regulated 
advice. 
No comment at all has been made regarding the point of the effect of the charges on 
the potential plan returns and whether it actually makes the plan a worthwhile 
proposition.We have seen a number of Ombudsman decisions all go against Zurich 
regarding this aspect. The effect of the charges has the impact of reducing the 
investment growth from 6% a year to 3.7% a year. 
Given that an ISA was lower in charges, had greater flexibility and was more tax 
efficient and had no life cover we would be grateful for an explanation as to why this 
endowment savings plan was suitable for Mr P. 
Zurich confirmed it had no further comment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I appreciate that Mr P feels strongly about what happened and he holds a different view to 
me. I would like to assure him that Ive taken carefully into account everything thats been 
said, including his comments in response to my provisional decision. 
The absence of information showing how Zurich determined Mr Ps risk approach isnt 
enough to show that no risk assessment was completed. In line with the Ombudsmans 
usual approach, I have made a reasonable asumption based on what I know of Mr Ps 
circumstances and financial situation at the time to form a view about what his likely attitude 
to risk was and I have assessed his complaint that the MIP was mis-sold using this 
approach. 
Zurich said the Bank of England base rate when the plan started in December 1999 was 
5.5% and the Managed fund had achieved an annual return of 15.2% over the previous 
12 months. Although this return doesnt allow for charges, it shows the plan had the potential 
to achieve a greater rate than the Bank of England Base rate of 5.5%, which I think would 
have been an important consideration from Mr Ps point of view. 
With such a substantial share portfolio, I think it's fair to say Mr P likely had at least some 
experience as an investor. So its reasonable to assume he had at least some understanding 
that, for instance, dealing and administration costs would impact on his investment returns.  
Despite what Mr Ps representative says, I cant make a finding that MIP costs werent 
discussed as part and parcel of the advisers recommendation when the balance of the 
available information suggests its more likely they were. The illustration prepared for Mr P 
has a handwritten amendment which suggests to me this document was actively in use 
during discussions between Mr P and the adviser. I've no good reason to think Mr P wouldnt 
have seen the illustration or discussed the information shown  after all, that is the main 
point of the adviser preparing an illustration and discussion about the information it showed 
would be a usual part of the sale process. It clearly shows the potential impact of charges. 
Mr P paid £12,000 into the MIP and the illustration suggested he might get back £13,600 
after ten years, had the investment grown at 6% per year. He could also have seen that over 
the full term the effect of the total deductions could amount to £2,630 and it was explained 
this meant effectively bringing down the investment growth used for illustration purposes 
from 6% a year to 3.7% a year (leaving out the cost of life cover and sickness benefits). 
Its unfortunate that fund performance didnt match the hopes Mr P had for this investment, 
but Im only considering if the investment was suitable for him at the point of sale. In the 
event, Mr P received back £13,243.55 at the end of the ten years term which I think was 
reasonably within the scope of what he could have expected when he signed up to this 
investment, allowing for inevitable but unforeseeable market fluctuations. This all leads me 
to conclude that I havent seen enough overall to suggest that the impact of charges was so 
unfair that it made the sale of this investment unsuitable for Mr P. 
For all the reasons set out in my decision, I am not saying the MIP was necessariily the most 
suitable investment recommendation  simply that it wasnt unsuitable for Mr P according to 
his particular investment needs and objectives at the time. So Mr P hasnt provided me with any new information that changes what I think about this 
case. I can understand that Mr P is disappointed in the outcome of the complaint but I hope 
that the additional information Ive set out above helps explain how Ive come to my view.
After taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to my provisional 
decision, and as no further comments have been received in response to my provisional 
decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman