DRN-1215719
 
The complaint
Mr F complains about problems he had when making a claim on his Assurant General 
Insurance Limited (trading as Protect Your Bubble (PYB)) Gadget Insurance policy.
What happened
Mr F called PYB to make a claim for a broken electronic device in May 2019. PYB asked for 
proof of ownership. In July 2019 Mr F provided a handwritten receipt showing the device had 
been purchased abroad. PYB said as the receipt was handwritten, it would like confirmation 
from the retailer that the device was new when purchased. Mr F complained about this and 
PYB accepted his claim in July 2019.
Mr F asked for the device to be collected from his work address, but the courier was sent to 
his home address by mistake. A rearranged collection also failed which caused delays in 
Mr F's device being collected. The device was eventually collected, repaired and it was sent 
back to
Mr F on 18 August 2019. Mr F complained about this and referred his complaint to us.
PYB told us Mr F's receipt shows he purchased the device in December 2017, but PYB says 
the device manufacture's website shows it was first activated in 2015. It said this means it 
wasn't new when he bought it. And his policy excludes second hand items. It said because 
he has benefited from the policy, when his claim should've been declined, it didn't think 
further redress was due.
Our investigator agreed with PYB and didn't uphold Mr F's complaint. Mr F didn't agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. So it's been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator, and for the same reasons.
The evidence PYB has provided, shows the device Mr F claimed for was first activated in 
2015. Mr F may well have believed the device was brand new when he bought it. But based 
on the evidence I have, I don't think it was. This means it shouldn't have been covered under 
Mr F's PYB policy as he was only covered for items that he purchased new - whether he 
knew that or not. And he's therefore benefited from having a claim accepted which 
wasn't covered and having his device repaired when he wasn't entitled to under the policy.
I agree that PYB made mistakes when trying to collect the device which must've been 
frustrating for Mr F. And I'd normally ask PYB to pay some compensation for this. But as
Mr F has benefited from a claim on the policy when he wasn't entitled to, I'm not going to ask 
PYB to do anything further.
My final decisionMy final decision is I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman