The complaint
Mr B says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
him. Mr B says the lending was unaffordable for him and he have to borrow 
further.         
What happened
This complaint is about one instalment loan for £750 taken in October 2014 and was to be 
repaid over six months. The loan was repaid in March 2015. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint and thought Mr lender had carried out 
sufficient checks about Mr Bs financial circumstances before it lent to him.
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicator. He explained more about his personal circumstances at 
the time of the lending. But this didnt change the adjudicators assessment. As the 
complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
DRN-1360644 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr B could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. After doing so, I dont think Mr Lender 
was wrong to lend to Mr B. Ill explain why. 
Given what Mr B told Mr Lender about his income, the monthly repayment amount and that 
this was Mr Bs first loan with Mr Lender, I dont think it would have been proportionate for Mr 
Lender to have asked Mr B for further information that would be needed to show that lending 
was unsustainable for him. 
For the loan application, Mr B confirmed his monthly income was £1,600 and monthly 
expenditure was £875. This left Mr B with a disposable income each month of £725 
compared to the maximum monthly loan repayment of £387.50. So, I dont think there would 
have been any reason for Mr Lender to have looked further into Mr Bs financial 
circumstances at such an early period of his borrowing relationship. 
Mr Lender has told us of the credit checks it carried out at the beginning of its relationship 
with Mr B. Mr B has been able to give us a copy of his credit report and bank statements 
from the time of the borrowing and its clear from the statements that Mr B was using other 
short-term credit providers and had other outgoings. But as Ive said above, at the beginning 
of a borrowing relationship I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. And Im also aware that the information a prospective lender can obtain from 
a credit check isnt necessarily the same as the information Mr B may have seen from his 
own credit report. 
It's possible that Mr Bs actual financial circumstances weren't correctly reflected in the 
information he provided, or the information Mr Lender obtained as a result of the credit 
checks. And Mr Bs actual financial position may well have been apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained.
But Mr Lender could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the 
time. And as it was still in the early stages of the lending relationship, I dont think there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Mr B. In these circumstances, I dont think 
Mr Lender needed to take further steps to verify the information provided  such as asking 
Mr B for evidence of his income and outgoing which Mr Lender could have gathered from his 
bank statements or copies of any bills, as examples.
Overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessment Mr Lender did for this loan was 
proportionate. I think its decision to lend to Mr B was reasonable.
I appreciate Mr B will be extremely disappointed with my decision, but I hope I have been 
able to explain how and why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman