DRN-2006115
 
The complaint
Mr L has complained that the premium Admiral Insurance Company Limited charged him at 
renewal in 2018 for his home insurance policy was too high and must be incorrect. 
What happened
Mr L bought a home insurance policy with the insurer, Admiral in October 2017. He 
automatically renewed it in October 2018. 
In September 2019 Admiral sent Mr L a renewal notice  as it did in 2018. Mr L noticed the 
premium was much higher  and realised that the premium had gone up significantly at 
renewal in 2018. 
He looked on comparison websites and said he could buy a policy elsewhere for much less. 
He complained to Admiral. He wanted it to refund him the difference of £800 for the 
increased premium he paid in October 2018. Mr L didnt renew his policy with Admiral in 
2019. 
Admiral didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said it charged a higher premium in 2018 due to an 
increased risk of flood in the area. It said it had correctly calculated Mr Ls premium. And it 
had given him notice of the premium change before the renewal date  so Mr L could shop 
around if he wasnt happy with the price.
Mr L remained unhappy and so he asked us to look at things for him. Our investigator 
thought Admiral had acted reasonably. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said if there was an increase in the risk of flood, surely his insurance 
would be higher with other insurers. Hes been able to obtain insurance much cheaper. So 
he doesnt think Admiral has been fair to him. 
As Mr L didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer can decide the risk it wishes to take on and the price it wants to charge for that 
risk. This isnt something we can interfere with as its a commercial decision every insurer 
can make  and it varies from insurer to insurer. This is why we as consumers find such a 
wide range in price on comparison websites when we look for a quote  even though the 
quote is based on the same information we have provided.
We can look at whether an insurer has correctly applied its risk and underwriting criteria so 
that its treated its customer fairly. And we can look at whether the insurer gave a customer 
adequate notice of the renewal premium. 
An insurers risk criteria can be commercially sensitive. In this case, Admiral referred Mr Ls 
complaint to its pricing department to check it had charged him the correct premium, which 
Ive seen. Admiral explained to Mr L that the premium increased due to Admirals change in 
flood risk profiling of the area where Mr L lives. I appreciate that Mr L doesnt agree with this 
as he was able to find a much cheaper policy elsewhere. But as Ive said, the price of 
insurance can range widely for the same level of cover depending on the insurers appetite 
for risk. And as Admiral notified Mr L of the renewal premium a month before the renewal 
date in 2018, I think it gave Mr L time to shop around if he was unhappy with the price. 
Mr L has provided screenshots of the renewal information Admiral sent him and noticed the 
colour of the premium is split into different colours. He said this could mislead consumers. 
But I think the premium can be clearly seen. And Mr L was able to identify the premium 
amount when he contacted Admiral to discuss it at renewal in 2019. 
I understand Mr L will be disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think Admiral acted unreasonably. Im satisfied that it treated Mr L as it would any other 
customer in his circumstances. So Im not asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman