DRN-1852301
The complaint
Miss D complains, on behalf of the estate of Mrs D, about Liverpool Victoria Friendly 
Societys (LV) decline of Mrs Ds terminal illness claim.
What happened
Mrs D had a 10-year level term life assurance policy from 16 January 2009 until 16 January 
2019. 
In late 2018 Miss D contacted LV to make a terminal illness claim on behalf of Mrs D. 
LV advised Mrs D was not covered if she was diagnosed with a terminal illness within the 
last 12 months of her policy. But Miss D said Mrs D had been diagnosed with terminal 
cancer in early January 2018  before the last year of her policy began.
LV then investigated the claim. It contacted Mrs Ds consultant and GP in December 2018 
for more information. LV spoke with Mrs Ds GP the same month, but the GP couldnt 
comment on prognosis.
 
So, LV waited to hear from Mrs Ds consultant. In January 2019 LV was told Mrs Ds treating 
consultant had left the country and LVs request was passed to another consultant at the 
same hospital. After chasing a response on a monthly basis, LV finally received a report 
from this consultant in late June 2019. After reviewing the report, which said Mrs Ds 
prognosis was unknown, LV declined the claim. LV said with no prognosis at all, and 
nothing to suggest Mrs D had less than 12 months to live, its decision was to decline the 
claim.
Miss D didnt think this was fair, so she complained on behalf of Mrs D. Miss D explained 
they had been told Mrs Ds life expectancy was 6-12 months back in early January 2018 and 
that this information would be in the medical notes. LV maintained it had declined the claim 
fairly but said it would go back to the consultant for more information and consider the claim 
further. But by January 2020, LV still hadnt had a response from the consultant, despite 
chasing this regularly. So, LV decided not to pursue this further.
Miss D brought the complaint to our service. Our investigator found LV had acted fairly and 
didnt uphold the complaint. Miss D disagreed, so the matters been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying Im very sorry for Miss D and her familys loss. It might be helpful if I 
clarify my role - which is to decide if LV acted reasonably in the circumstances when it 
declined the claim. So, whilst I appreciate that Miss D has given us permission to gather 
further evidence from the hospital in relation to this claim, its not our role to do this. But what 
I can and will consider is whether LV did enough to gather relevant information in relation to 
the claim. And whether it then assessed the claim fairly.
 
Im aware Miss D also has concerns over the sale of the policy. But this was sold through a 
broker, so any complaints about this should be considered against the broker. And I wont be 
commenting on these issues here.
 
This claim was made under the terminal illness part of Mrs Ds policy. This states that LV 
will, pay the amount of your cover if you are diagnosed with a terminal illness between the 
start date and 12 months or more before the end date of your policy. 
Under the policy a terminal illness is defined as, an incurable illness where, in the opinion of 
an attending consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, you would not be expected to live for 
more than 12 months.
So, for the claim to be within time, the evidence needs to show not only that Mrs D was 
diagnosed with terminal cancer before 16 January 2018, but that at this time her life 
expectancy was expected to be less than 12 months. 
After receiving the claim LV wrote to Mrs Ds GP and her consultant for more information to 
see if she met this definition. 
The GP phoned LV in response and confirmed Mrs D had a terminal diagnosis. But the GP 
said they were unable to give a prognosis.
Because the attending consultant had left the country, LVs request was passed to another 
consultant at the same hospital. LV sent a form for the consultant to complete, which the 
consultant then returned. 
In the completed form the consultant confirmed Mrs D was first seen for terminal cancer on 
5 January 2018  which is before the last 12 months of the policy. But LV noted that in 
response to the question what is the patients current life expectancy the consultant said 
unknown. LV told us that because there was no prognosis and nothing to suggest Mrs D 
was expected to live for less than 12 months, it declined the claim. But having reviewed the 
form, I dont think this is an accurate summary of all of the information in it.
Whilst I agree the consultant said the current life expectancy was unknown, they also clearly 
answered yes to the previous question which asked if Mrs D met the definition of terminal 
illness shown on the form. And that definition clearly required the consultant to agree that life 
expectancy was no greater than twelve months. Its clearly possible that the consultant 
considered Mrs Ds life expectancy to be no greater than twelve months, but that the 
specifics within this were unknown. And so, I dont agree with LV that there is no evidence 
here regarding Mrs Ds prognosis. 
That being said, I dont think this evidence is sufficient to indicate Mrs D met the policy 
definition of a terminal illness before the 16 January 2018. I say this given the form 
specifically asked if the patient met the definition currently. And the form was sent after 16 
January 2018. So, whilst it indicates life expectancy may have met the policy definition in 
June 2019  after the policy had expired  this doesnt assist in the assessment of Mrs Ds 
claim. So, I dont think the form allowed LV to capture the information it needed to make a 
decision. But overall, I dont think this caused a significant delay.
After Miss D raised concerns that there was medical evidence in support of the claim 
available, LV went back to the consultant for more information. It asked the consultant to 
clarify their opinion on Mrs Ds prognosis before the policy ended. And it also asked for 
copies of relevant medical records. I think it acted reasonably in doing this.Over the following months LV chased this with the consultants office multiple times but 
despite promises from a secretary to raise this, LV didnt hear back. After trying 
unsuccessfully for five months, it decided not to pursue this further. 
I appreciate the lack of response from the consultant is incredibly frustrating for Miss D, as 
she feels the information LV need to support the claim is within the requested notes. But my 
job here is to decide if LV acted reasonably. And the lack of reply isnt LVs fault. Given LV 
knew the consultant had received its request, I think its decision to stop pursuing this after 
five months was reasonable. I say this noting Miss D has since been told by the consultants 
secretary that they wont be replying. 
Without the relevant medical records, LV cant determine what the attending consultants 
opinion was in relation to Mrs Ds prognosis at the time. Nor can it ask its own medical 
consultant to provide an opinion on prognosis. So, whilst I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss D, I dont think LV could do anything further here.
Im aware Miss D has provided LV with a letter from Mrs Ds GP date 5 March 2018 which 
notes the cancer will kill her and could well do so in the next six to twelve months. Miss D 
has said that the GP spoke with the attending consultant in order to get this information - so 
its evidence of what the consultant thought. And it does suggest the consultant has 
discussed terminal timescales of under 12 months. But I dont think this letter is sufficient to 
show Mrs Ds illness met the relevant policy definition. I say this because the wording could 
well do so in the next six to twelve months is vague and isnt the same as suggesting Mrs D 
was not expected to live beyond this. The letter is also dated after the 16 January 2018, so it 
doesnt show the definition was met within the relevant timeframe. So, I think its reasonable 
that LV didnt consider this evidence enough to accept the claim.
Taking everything into account, I think LVs decision to decline the claim on the basis of the 
available information was fair and I think it made reasonable efforts to acquire more 
information relevant to its assessment. Its unfortunate it wasnt able to get this.
Theres nothing to stop Miss D submitting the medical records to LV for it to consider the 
claim further if shes able to obtain them. But Miss D should be aware that unless these 
records clearly indicate Mrs D had a life expectancy of under 12 months before 16 January 
2018, its very unlikely the claim will be accepted. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Jade Cunningham
Ombudsman