DRN-2340260
The complaint
Miss C says Morses Club PLC lent to her irresponsibly. She says she was offered loans 
when she had a low income. She says the loans put her in a difficult position and left her 
with very little money. She says this adversely affected her financially and caused her stress.   
What happened
This complaint is about four home collected loans Morses provided to Miss C between 
August 2016 and May 2018.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 10/08/2016 £200 26 04/05/2017
2 04/05/2017 £170 33 25/09/2017
3 25/09/2017 £300 33 17/05/2018
4 17/05/2018 £300 33 outstanding
Miss C has made her complaint to Morses. Before bringing the complaint here Morses 
offered to pay compensation in respect of loan 1. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She agreed with the offer Morses had made 
in respect of loan 1. She also thought that Morses should pay compensation in respect of 
loan 4. 
Morses agreed with our adjudicators findings. Miss C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. She said she couldnt repay the outstanding balance on loan 4. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Cs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Miss C, and Morses, appear to agree that compensation should be paid in respect of loans 1 
and 4. So I wont be making a decision about whether Morses was right to approve this 
lending but Ive included what Morses needs to do to put things right about these loans in 
putting things right section below. These loans were part of the borrowing relationship Miss 
C had with Morses. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the 
other loans she took. 
Ill look at whether Morses was right to approve loans 2 and 3 and whether the 
compensation offered on loans 1 and 4 is fair. 
Ive seen a record of the information Miss C provided when she completed her applications 
for loans 2 and 3. Miss C said she had a weekly income of around £160 and she had regular 
weekly outgoings of £55. This left her with a disposable income of around £105 a week. So 
the loan repayments of £15 a week wouldve seemed affordable to Morses.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Morses was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss C mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Miss Cs circumstances further. So I think it was reasonable for Morses to rely on 
the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Morses did for loans 2 and 3 
were proportionate. And I think its decision to approve these loans was reasonable based on 
the checks that it carried out. So Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint about these loans. 
Miss C hasnt said this outcome is unfair itself. But she has said she may struggle to repay 
the outstanding balance on loan 4. Where a loan has been irresponsibly lent compensation 
should put the consumer back in the position, they would have been in had the loan not 
been arranged. So its fair than any interest or charges Miss C has paid should be returned 
to her as she should not have paid them. But is also fair that the capital lent is returned to 
the business as Miss C wold not have had the use of this. 
So Miss C should repay this if she is able. But I would remind Morses of its responsibility to 
treat Miss C fairly in respect of any repayment plan that is arranged. 
 Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not approved loans 1 and 4 to Miss C, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss C may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss C would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Miss C loans 1 and 4.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss C towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss C 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss C as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss C having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus 
then the surplus should be paid to Miss C. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss C. Morses shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already written-off.
E) Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file in relation 
to loan 1. The overall pattern of Miss Cs borrowing by loan 4 means any information 
recorded about it is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Miss Cs credit file. Morses does not have to remove loan 4 from Miss Cs credit file until these have been 
repaid, but Morses should still remove any adverse information recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman