DRN-3063113
The complaint
Mr W complains that Metro Bank Plc refuses to refund payments he lost to an investment 
scammer.
 
What happened
In October 2017, Mr W was cold called by a representative of 72 Option and was sold an 
investment opportunity with them. He agreed to invest £250 and was provided with a trading 
platform. Mr W suspected 72 Option might be a scam so he says he contacted Metro but it 
couldnt recover his money. An account manager from 72 Option subsequently contacted Mr 
W and went through trades with him and he won them all, which gained his trust, so he 
agreed to deposit further funds. 
Within a short time, Mr W was cold called by another company called 53 Capital. After 
seeing success with 72 Option, he was persuaded to investment with them too. 
Between 25 October 2017 to 1 November 2017, Mr W invested around £48,000 with 72 
Option and 53 Capital using his Metro Visa debit card  linked to his current account. 
Mr W quickly realised he was unable to withdraw profits from his trading accounts. He 
carried out some research and saw reviews highlighting that 72 Option were scammers. He 
then realised that 53 Capital were also scammers.
Mr W appointed a company to assist him with recovering his money. He was able to obtain 
some refunds from 72 Option. He subsequently called Metro for assistance with recovering 
his remaining payments via the Visa chargeback scheme. 
Metro processed chargebacks for Mr W for his remaining loss and most of the chargeback 
claims were defended by 72 Option and 53 Capital. Mr W complained and Metro advised it 
was unable to do anymore to assist. 
Mr W referred his complaint to this office and requested that Metro returns his remaining 
loss. One of our investigators felt that Metro could have done more to prevent Mr Ws losses 
and suggested that Metro refund some of Mr Ws payments, together with interest. Mr W 
agreed but Metro didnt, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
On 26 August 2022, I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in part. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings below:
 
Metro is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
 
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr W for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is because 
they were made by Mr W using the legitimate security credentials provided to him by Metro. 
So, although Mr W did not intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and 
under the terms and conditions of his bank account, Mr W is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance.
 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Metro should fairly and reasonably:
 
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
 
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated bank such as Metro that Mr Ws account was being subjected to unusual and 
uncharacteristic activity. There were reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or scam, and 
therefore justify an intervention (such as phoning him in order to ask discreet questions 
about the nature and purpose of the payments).
 
First, regulated firms ought reasonably to take notice of common types of scams. As long 
ago as June 2012, the FCAs predecessor indicatedin its consultation paper entitled 
Banks Defences Against Investment Fraud: detecting perpetrators and protecting victims
that it was good industry practice for firms to build up an updated watch-list of types of 
scams and potential perpetrators; and regularly to share timely and detailed intelligence 
with other banks, UK and overseas regulators, the police, etc. Whilst the regulator gave no 
specific timings, it is not unreasonable in my view to expect an international bank to update 
its watch-list and communicate internally to staff within, say, one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO). In my 
judgment, such alerts should automatically trigger alarm-bellsand lead to the payment 
being pausedpending further enquiries (and a possible scam warning) to the payer.
 
Having looked over this complaint, I think there ought to have been fraud triggers from the 
point of Mr Ws first payment of £250 on 25 October 2017 to 72 Option. I say this because 
IOSCO had published the following Investor Alert warnings about 72 Option:
 
13 December 2016 - British Columbia Securities Commission
4 August 2017  Securities and Futures Commission (Hong Kong)
6 September 2017  Australian Securities and Investments Commission
 
If Metro had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mr W would have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the 
bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have 
advised that there were several credible regulator warnings about 72 Option that indicated 
they could be operating a scam. It could have pointed Mr W to the UK Gambling 
Commissions website to check whether 72 Option was regulated as they were carrying out 
regulated activities without permission. It could have also explained its own customer 
experiences with unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers 
would often be prevented from withdrawing available balances.
 There is no evidence that Metro provided Mr W with any meaningful warnings or gave him 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payment he was making. It was a missed 
opportunity to intervene.
 
causation
 
If Metro had asked Mr W what the payment was for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely he would have fully explained what he was doing and that everything had been done 
over the phone and online with a representative of 72 Option. Metro did not need to know for 
certain whether Mr W was dealing with a fraudulent high risk investment trader or investing 
in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable grounds for suspicion are 
enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various regulations and principles of good 
practice. I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that Metro ought 
reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the information then known to 
financial professionals about the risks associated with unregulated forex and binary options 
dealers.
 
If Metro had given a warning, I believe that Mr W would have paused and looked more 
closely into 72 Option before proceeding. It seems more probable that he would have made 
further enquiries into whether or not 72 Option were regulated in the UK or abroad. He could 
have discovered they were not and the various regulatory warnings about them specifically 
and about the risk of unregulated investment scams. In other words, I am satisfied that a 
warning from his trusted bank would probably have exposed 72 Options smoke and mirrors, 
causing him not to invest and preventing any further losses.
 
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK investments but 
highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he is to win. So before 
Mr Ws payments were actually processed, he would probably have stopped in his tracks. 
But for Metros failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr W would 
probably have lost no money.
 
Ive noted that Mr W had a bad feeling that 72 Option could be a scam after his initial £250 
payment. But Ive also noted that his broker at 72 Option was able to persuade him that he 
should continue trading and they would earn him a lot of money. This was a very 
sophisticated scam with believable trading platforms and unless Mr W was prompted, I dont 
think he could reasonably have known that what he was likely seeing was no more than a 
simulation. He was also permitted to withdraw £100 on 29 October 2017 as a way of 72 
Option proving the account was legitimate. Though banks ought to be familiar that token 
withdrawals in the early stages are common with binary options scams.
 
contributory negligence
 
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000). In this case, I do think that Mr W should share some blame for what 
happened.
 
Ive noted that when Mr W realised this was a scam (quite early on) he carried out further 
checks into 72 Option and found adverse information about them. Its clear he didnt carry 
out these checks prior to investing with them and I think if he had, he would have likely seen 
the credible adverse information.
 In the circumstances, I do think it would be fair to reduce compensation by 25% on the basis 
that Mr W should share blame for what happened. Ive not placed too much weight on Mr 
Ws expected returns because binary options trades can generate significant profits (which is 
associated with the level of risk involved). I dont think Mr W could reasonably have known 
that the profits he saw on his trading platforms were no more than a video game/simulation.
 
Whilst Ive not set this out above, I think its likely that 53 Capital Trade (warning published 
by the FCA on 4 July 2017) were likely run by the same individuals as 72 Option as he was 
cold called by them shortly after he started investing with 72 Option. In any event, Im 
satisfied that if Metro had provided a meaningful warning about 72 Option as Ive concluded 
it should have, Mr W wouldnt have also fallen victim to 53 Capital Trade and so these 
payments have formed part of my consideration when concluding Metros responsibility.
Responses to my provisional decision
Metro confirmed it had nothing more to add to my provisional decision. 
Mr W explained in summary that he could have carried out his own research but he was sold 
an opportunity that he believed in by sophisticated scammers. He explained hed already lost 
a lot and asked that I reconsider the contributory negligence reduction. He also queried the 
interest. 
I replied to Mr W and acknowledged the ordeal hed been through. But I explained that I had 
to consider whether he did anything to mitigate his losses and I thought 25% in the 
circumstances were fair. I clarified the interest and Mr W thanked me for my response. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Metro didnt have any further comments to add to my provisional decision and Mr W had 
no further comment after my reply to him, I see no reason to depart from what Ive said. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank Plc should refund the remaining payments in dispute. It 
should add 8% simple interest per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
refund. 
 
Metro is entitled to first deduct credits Mr W received from 72 Option and 53 Capital Trade 
(BO Trader) when calculating Mr Ws settlement.
 
And Metro should deduct 25% for contributory negligence.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman