DRN-3577852
The complaint
Mr A complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim he made 
under sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a 
solar panel system he says was misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr A is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around October 2015, Mr A was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P 
to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his home. 
After being visited by a representative of P, Mr A decided to purchase the system and 
finance it through a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was 
subsequently installed.
In February 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr As behalf under section 75 of 
the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of representations 
about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that 
had induced Mr A to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said the following 
misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on his electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments from the start.
Shawbrook it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr A or that there were 
any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. However it later offered £200 compensation for 
its delay in responding to the complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr A and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view but did not provide any further comments.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It argued that where a person is unaware 
that a representation is false, the fact that they could have found out it was false by taking 
reasonable care is not a defence in law.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr A paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that section 
75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr A could claim against Shawbrook (the 
creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way he could have 
claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr A and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr A says that during a sales meeting he was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. Ive considered 
these, along with Mr As testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to decide on 
balance what is most likely to have happened.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr A, explaining any benefits of the system, prior 
to him agreeing to enter into the contract.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr As version 
of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.FIT payments and savings
Mr A has said that he was told his monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and the savings on his energy bills. Ive considered the quote 
that was provided by P as well as Mr As recollections of his meeting with Ps representative 
to decide what is most likely to have been said.
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr A could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mr A could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £382.09, which results in an average monthly income of £31.84. Im 
satisfied that the same document set out that there would be a monthly loan repayment due 
of £101.24. As a result, Im not able to conclude that Mr A was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr A could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £288.01 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mr A, the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £870.90. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months as this is the 
length of the loan that Mr A entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 180 monthly payments of £101.24. (This is incorrect; the loan agreement gives 
the correct monthly figure of £101.45, but the difference  21  is too small to affect the 
following observations.) For each year of the 15 year loan it shows the expected grand total 
return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and subtracts the 
monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative figure for the 
first six years of the loan, meaning that the system would never make enough money to 
cover the loan payments.
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr A could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as his expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income he 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. (This supports my finding 
above that Mr A wasnt told that the FIT payments alone would cover the loan repayments.) 
Ive carefully thought about Mr As version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote 
did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the 
meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that he was told that the monthly loan 
repayments would be covered by the FIT income and savings.
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr A that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand (notwithstanding the 21p discrepancy 
in the monthly payments). That section of the quote has been signed by Mr A, so Im 
satisfied that P did enough to bring it to his attention. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr A was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain period of time.
The Key Facts page of the quote states in large font that it would take none years for the 
overall benefits that Mr A could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
I think the nine-year estimated payback time is clear and prominent, being in large print on 
page 2, and so I dont consider that it needed further explaining. This figure also appears in 
the Putting it all together section.
A later page of the quote has a table detailing the estimated performance of the system over 
20 years. This too shows that during year nine the overall benefits that Mr A could expect to 
receive would reach the cash price of the system, £9,495.
The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £18,261, 
would be reached by the end of year 14 (although that amount is not shown in the quote but 
only in the loan agreement).
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr A that the system would pay for its cash 
price in 9 years, and for the loan in about 14 years, as supported by the graphic and the 
table above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and 
Im satisfied that this was what induced him to enter into the contract, and he subsequently 
suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone on to consider 
the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract between P and 
Mr A.
Performance: energy generation
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 2,565 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr As FIT statements and can see that his system, on average, has 
generated 2,243 kWh a year. This is significantly less than estimated by P at the point of 
sale (87%), so I agree that the system is not performing as well as expected.
However, I do not know if that is because the system was misrepresented at the point of 
sale, or if it is because the system was defective at the point of sale (which would be a 
breach of contract), or if it is because the system subsequently developed a fault (which 
would not necessarily be Shawbrooks responsibility).
This issue was not raised with Shawbrook in the claim under section 75 in 2021, and so I do 
not think that Shawbrook can be faulted for not having upheld that claim on this basis. 
Shawbrook was only dealing with a complaint that Mr A was told that the system was 
supposed to be self-funding from the start, when it wasnt. And Shawbrooks answer was 
that the quote had made it clear all along that this was not the case. Shawbrook didnt have 
to go further than that and investigate whether the system was generating as much energy 
as P had estimated.
So I think that the under-performance issue needs to be raised with Shawbrook in a new 
section 75 claim. That will enable Shawbrook to investigate the reason for the under-
performance, and possibly to fix it. Then, if Mr A is still not satisfied, he may bring a new 
complaint to our service about Shawbrooks response. I am not in a position to deal with that 
issue now, except to say that Shawbrook did not mishandle Mr As claim under section 75.
Performance: financial returns
However, I do think that Mr As original section 75 claim did include a complaint to the effect 
that the system was not generating the estimated financial returns, and that the system had 
therefore been misrepresented on that basis. So I have considered whether the estimated 
financial returns were exaggerated, independently of the systems failure to generate as 
much energy as estimated.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr A hasnt been receiving the financial returns he may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr A could have 
expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may not 
have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due to 
unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr A entered into the contract.Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr A to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
I leave it to Mr A to decide whether to accept Shawbrooks offer of £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman