DRN-1699943
 
The complaint
Miss E says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
In 2009, Halifax sold Miss E a monthly premium PPI policy to protect her mortgage 
repayments if she was unable to work because of disability or unemployment. It was sold as 
part of a package called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss E disagreed, so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Es case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
There are gaps in the information thats still available from 2009. So, Ive reached my 
decision on the balance of the remaining evidence, together with experience of Halifaxs 
sales processes at the time. 
While theres nothing to conclusively show Miss E agreed to the PPI, from whats known of 
Halifaxs sales processes back then, I dont think its likely that it would have added this 
cover without getting her agreement to take it. Thats also supported by the papers Ive seen 
from shortly after the sale. For example, Halifax wrote to her soon after the PPI was added 
and thanked her for choosing our optional PPI.
I believe Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss E. That meant Halifax needed to take steps 
to ensure its advice was right for her. Regardless of what steps it took, I think the PPI it 
recommended was right for her in any case. 
For example, from what Miss Es told us about her circumstances, she was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt significantly affected by any of the main things the policy excluded or 
limited cover for. Although she suffered from a medical condition at the time, it seems this 
didnt impact greatly on her daily life or cause her to take much time off work. Which means I 
dont think that made the PPI unsuitable for her.
It seems Miss E was entitled to relatively generous sick pay and redundancy pay from her 
employer. But the PPI benefits were considerable and paid out on top of that pay, potentially 
for up to 12 months for each successful disability and unemployment claim. She also had 
savings and shares she could have used if needed, although the PPI meant she could have retained them or used them to cover her other living costs if she wasnt working.
Given Miss E had entered into a long-term financial commitment that was secured against 
her home, I think shed have valued the additional protection the PPI provided. 
Halifax also needed to give Miss E enough information about the PPI to allow her to decide 
for herself if it was right for her. I think its possible that the information it gave her could have 
been better than it was. But, for the same reasons that I dont think the PPI was unsuitable 
for her, I dont think that better information would have changed her decision to take it. I think 
she would still have thought it provided useful benefits at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Miss Es lost out because of how Halifax sold 
her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman