DRN-4011491
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Starling Bank Limited wont reimburse the money he says hes lost to a 
scam.
Whats happened?
Mr B says hes fallen victim to a scam. He saw an advert on social media by a company Ill 
refer to as (M), seeking investment in shares. M had previously carried out work for Mr B to 
his satisfaction and, after discussing the investment opportunity with M at some length, 
carrying out his own research on M and being promised a 50% return on his investment, Mr 
B decided to invest. Between April and August 2021, Mr B paid M a total of £75,000 via 
faster payments for investment purposes and the provision of a loan (the payments). He 
says he has since discovered that M has not used his money for the intended purposes, he 
hasnt received the returns he expected, and M has ceased contact with him.
Mr B reported the matter to Starling on 29 September 2021. Starling contacted the receiving 
bank on the same day, but no funds remained in the beneficiary account to recover, and 
Starling has declined to reimburse Mr B under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) because it says this is a civil dispute  Mr B paid a 
legitimate business for the purchase of shares and to provide a loan.
Mr B was unhappy with Starlings response, so he asked this Service to consider a 
complaint against the bank. He said:
Starling allowed him to make high-value payments to M without question or warning.
M was mimicking a legitimate business, but it turns out that the person managing his 
investment had been imprisoned for fraud and was using an alias. He believes that 
the person knew he had access to a lump sum, and they lied and manipulated him 
with the intention of defrauding him.
He knows of other people that have fallen victim to the same scam and received 
refunds from their bank.
Starling didnt take his vulnerability, which rendered him unable to protect himself 
from the scam, into account under the CRM Code. Hes said that he was heavily 
medicated at the relevant time due to a mental health condition, his judgement was 
clouded, and he wasnt thinking straight. Hes also said that he was pressured to pay 
more money to M over time on the basis that the money he had already paid would 
be at risk if he didnt.
Starling didnt contact the beneficiary bank when it should have, it failed to 
investigate his fraud claim in a timely manner and it didnt make reasonable 
adjustments as it was required to do.
His mental health has been severely affected by the scam, and by the way Starling 
has handled the matter.
What did our investigator say?
In summary, our investigator said that:
This matter is a civil dispute between Mr B and M, and Starling is not responsible for 
refunding the payments.
An intervention from Starling would not have prevented the payments from being 
made because there was no evidence of a scam risk.
Starlings offer to pay a total of total of £100 (£35 has already been paid) for the 
additional trouble and upset its caused Mr B with its customer service is fair.
Mr B was unhappy with this outcome, so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
My communication with Starling
I wrote to Starling in November 2022 to explain that Im persuaded Mr B has in fact fallen 
victim to a scam in this instance, so this matter is covered by the CRM Code  which was in 
force when Mr B made the payments.
Starling has signed up to the CRM Code. Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that 
a firm should reimburse a customer who has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment 
(APP) scam. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all APPs. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
Starling has argued that this matter is a civil dispute which is not covered by the CRM Code. 
Our investigator has agreed with Starling. But, having reviewed all of the evidence weve 
received in this case and others weve handled involving money paid to M, Im persuaded 
that Mr B has fallen victim to an APP scam.
It is not in dispute that M is a legitimate business which has previously carried out work for 
Mr B to his satisfaction. But the key question here is, what was Ms intention when it 
persuaded Mr B to make the payments? If the intention was to obtain money by deception, 
and this deception is what induced Mr B to hand money over, this would constitute a scam.
The evidence Ive seen about M shows that:
The director of M used an alias to register the business and seek investors.
The director of M has previously been found guilty of and imprisoned for fraud in their 
birth name.
Numerous shareholders invested in M and none of them have received any formal, 
signed documentation about their investment. Nor have they been added to Ms 
Companies House records.
Although theres some genuine business spending on Ms account, there is also lots 
of personal spending.An investors pot was set-up to receive Ms investors funds, but no money was ever 
transferred into it from the business account.
It doesnt appear that Mr Bs money was ever used for its intended purpose.
There is no evidence of large purchases of equipment, in line with the intended 
purpose of the loan Mr B provided M with.
Mr B has never received the promised returns on his investment and no repayments 
of the loan he provided M with have been made.
Ms bank has now exited its relationship with its customer after receiving multiple 
reports of fraud.
I can see that M is a legitimate business, but it appears to have been used to scam 
investors into parting with their money. Investors received some official looking 
documentation, and it seems that some investors may have received dividends on one 
occasion. But these arent unusual tactics used by fraudsters to persuade their victims to 
keep parting with their money. Looking at everything, Im satisfied that there was an intention 
to deceive Mr B from the outset, and that he has been a victim of fraud  so his case is 
covered by the CRM Code.
Starlings response
Starling offered to refund 50% of the payments. It said it still believes that part of this 
complaint is a civil dispute  M is an active company and Mr B has recourse to apply through 
the courts for breach of contract.
Starling also said that, although it appreciates Mr B was vulnerable at the relevant time, it 
doesnt believe his vulnerability made him susceptible to the scam.
Mr B didnt accept Starlings offer to settle his case.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 6 February 2023. Ill set out what I said below.
In earlier communication with Starling, I set out why I dont consider this matter to be a civil 
dispute. Im aware that M is an active company but, for all the reasons I have already 
explained, Im still satisfied that Mr B has fallen victim to an APP scam which is covered by 
the CRM Code. Starling hasnt provided any new evidence in this respect, and I dont intend 
to explore this issue in any further detail here.
In summary, the CRM Code says that a customer who was vulnerable when they made an 
APP scam payment should receive a full refund of that payment, regardless of whether the 
firm knew about the customers vulnerability before the scam took place. The CRM Code 
states that:
A Customer is vulnerable to APP scams if it would not be reasonable to expect that 
Customer to have protected themselves, at the time of becoming victim of an APP scam, 
against that particular APP scam, to the extent of the impact they suffered.
Ive seen expert evidence that Mr B was suffering from a mental health condition and taking 
related medication, all of which could impact on his decision-making, when he fell victim to 
the scam. Mr B has said that his vulnerability clouded his judgement and rendered him unable to protect himself from the scam. But hes also said that he carried out his own 
research on M before making the payments  such as doing an internet search on the 
company, looking at its social media reviews, looking M up on Companies House and 
checking the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register. So, I can see that Mr B weighed 
up the risks before falling victim to the scam and, although I accept that he was vulnerable at 
the time, Im not persuaded that he couldnt reasonably be expected to have protected 
himself from the scam because of his vulnerability  by his own admission, he did take steps 
to protect himself. Mr B has said that he felt pressured to continue making payments to M for 
fear of losing the money hed already paid, but I dont think this is the same thing as having 
his decision-making capacity affected by a vulnerability.
Nevertheless, the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse any customer who has been the 
victim of an APP scam in all but a limited number of circumstances, and I havent seen any 
evidence which persuades me that any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply 
in the circumstances of this case.
The first £5 payment made on 9 April 2021 was too low-value to reasonably expect Starling 
to have identified an APP scam risk, but given the nature and value of the payments made 
after that, Starling ought to have identified an APP scam risk and given Mr B an effective 
warning/s. Starling hasnt argued that Mr B ignored an effective warning/s it gave during the 
payment journey/s, nor has it pointed to any warning it gave which it believes was effective 
and ignored (despite being given the opportunity to do so when I contacted it in November 
2022). And, from what I know about Starlings warnings at the relevant time, Im not satisfied 
that it wouldve given Mr B an effective warning/s in absence of any evidence to the contrary.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr B had a reasonable basis for belief in this case. I 
say this because:
M is a legitimate business which had previously carried out work for Mr B to his 
satisfaction.
Mr B attended Ms business premises and had face-to-face meetings with members 
of staff.
There was lots of discussion between Mr B and M about the investment opportunity, 
and Mr B carried out his own research on M before deciding to invest  such as, 
doing an internet search on the company, looking at its social media reviews, looking 
M up on Companies House and checking the FCA register  which did not highlight 
any concerns (as is to be expected given that M operates a legitimate business).
Mr B received official looking documents relating to the payments from M and its 
representatives.
Im not persuaded that theres anything more Mr B can reasonably be expected to have 
done to protect himself from financial harm, and I can understand why the fraud went 
undetected by Mr B. Its worth noting that Starling concluded this matter is a civil dispute, so 
I think its unreasonable to expect Mr B to have identified a scam risk.
Overall, Im not satisfied that Starling gave Mr B an effective warning/s when it ought to have 
done, and I am persuaded that Mr B had a reasonable basis for belief. So, Starling shouldve 
reimbursed all the money Mr B lost to this scam under the provisions of the CRM Code, and 
I have provisionally decided that it should do so now. I cant be certain what Mr B wouldve 
used the money he lost for if he had not been defrauded, so I think its fairest to award 
interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr B shouldve received a full refund 
under the CRM Code to the date of settlement.I have considered whether Starling should pay interest from the date the payments were 
made, but I dont think it should. This is because, even if it had identified an APP scam risk 
and intervened with the payments, I think Mr B wouldve wanted to go ahead with them and 
wouldve answered Starlings questions about the payments to its satisfaction for all the 
reasons I have set out to explain why Mr B had a reasonable basis for belief on this 
occasion.
Finally, I have thought about the customer service Starling provided in dealing with this case.
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Starling contacted the beneficiary bank within a 
reasonable timeframe to try to recover Mr Bs funds, as Id expect it to do  but unfortunately, 
no funds remained.
But Starling did not:
Comply with the CRM Code by telling Mr B whether or not he would be reimbursed 
no later than 15 business days after the day on which he reported the APP scam, 
and it didnt tell him why its response was delayed and on which date he could 
expect its response as it is required to do.
Make reasonable adjustments for Mr B considering his mental health condition and 
learning difficulty. Starling was given early notice that Mr B required additional 
support, but it failed to adequately provide this. It did not, for example, consistently 
engage with Mr B via his preferred communication method or deal with this matter in 
a timely manner whilst keeping him updated so as to reduce the impact on him.
Starling has agreed to pay Mr B a total of £100 by way of compensation. But, considering 
everything, Im not persuaded that £100 is enough. Mr B lost a significant amount of money 
to this scam, and hes explained that his already poor mental health has been worsened as a 
result of what happened. I can see that the level of customer service Starling has provided 
here has had a very negative impact on a vulnerable customer and, although Mr B 
repeatedly advised Starling of the effects it was having on him and told the bank what it 
could do to assist him, reasonable adjustments were not made in the way Id expect. I am 
mindful that Mr Bs loss was ultimately caused by the callous acts of a fraudster. But, if 
Starling had reimbursed him under the provisions of the CRM Code when it ought to have 
done, and if it had dealt with his fraud claim in a timely manner, kept him updated and made 
appropriate reasonable adjustments in communicating with him, then much of the trouble 
and upset Mr B has experienced could have been avoided. For this reason, I am satisfied 
that an award of £500 compensation is appropriate in the circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B reiterated that the scam, and the way Starling has dealt with this matter, has had a very 
negative impact on him. But neither party gave me any new information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Starling nor Mr B have given me any new information or evidence which I havent 
already had the opportunity to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I set 
out in my provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct 
Starling Bank Limited to:
Reimburse the £75,000 Mr B lost to the scam and pay 8% simple interest per annum 
on this amount from the date Mr B should have received a full refund under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr B a total of £500 for the trouble and upset it has caused him (I understand 
that £35 has already been paid  so Starling needs to pay an additional £465).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman