DRN-2921386
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled and settled a claim they 
made for storm damage.
What happened
Mrs and Mr S hold a household insurance policy with Aviva. They say that, in early 
December 2020, they noticed water staining on the flooring in their loft while they were 
retrieving items. They contacted Aviva to make a claim under their policy as they believed 
the water ingress had been caused by a storm. 
Aviva appointed a buildings inspector to attend Mrs and Mr S property and assist it in 
dealing with their claim. Ill refer to the building inspector as S throughout this decision. 
S visited Mrs and Mr S property on 9 December 2020 and undertook an inspection of the 
roof using a telescopic pole. Having completed its inspection, S informed Aviva that it 
couldnt find any physical damage to the ridge tiles, associated fixing system or other roof 
tiles that was associated with a one-off storm event.
Mrs and Mr S were unhappy with the nature of the inspection that S had undertaken. So, 
they commissioned their own inspection from a roofing company who assessed their roof 
and provided an invoice detailing the work it recommended. Ill refer to that company as A. 
As initial invoice stated that it would recommend work, which included removing all ridge 
tiles and rebuilding the ridge. It stated that the work identified on its invoice was needed 
because constant wind had caused the ridge tiles to loosen.
Aviva considered S report and the photographs it had taken. It also took into account As 
invoice. After doing so, Aviva repudiated Mrs and Mr S claim as it said there was no sign of 
a one off storm event. And it thought, because A had recommended rebuilding the ridge, 
water must have entered Mrs and Mr S property due to a defect in how the roof had been 
constructed. It stated that damage caused by defects, faulty workmanship or design flaws 
were excluded under the policy terms.
Mrs and Mr S werent happy that Aviva wouldnt settle their claim. So, they complained. They 
disagreed with Avivas repudiation rationale and stated that S hadnt identified a defect with 
the roof during its inspection. They also said that A had provided a further invoice showing 
that the ridge hadnt needed rebuilding as it had been sitting at the correct height. So, the 
only work A had undertaken to repair the damage caused by the storm had been to secure 
the ridge tiles. Mrs and Mr S stated that Aviva had ignored As second invoice, which they 
said demonstrated that there was no design flaw or defect to the roof.  
Aviva reconsidered the information Mrs and Mr S had provided. But it maintained its 
repudiation decision. So, Mrs and Mr S referred their complaint to our service. They provided 
a video to our investigator showing how loose the ridge tiles were. They felt that the 
evidence and information theyd provided supported their view that a storm had caused 
water ingress, which they said their home hadnt suffered before.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They werent persuaded that there was evidence of a defect or design flaw to the 
roof. But they thought the damage Mrs and Mr S had reported to Aviva wasnt consistent 
with a one-off identifiable storm event. So, they didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong 
in declining this claim. But Mrs and Mr S disagreed and asked an ombudsman to determine 
their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. I can see that Mrs and Mr S have 
gone to considerable effort to provide detailed responses to our investigators view of their 
complaint. Ive considered everything theyve said and viewed the video they provided. But 
Ill concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant to decide this complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Mrs and Mr S have told Aviva and our service that there was water staining to their loft 
flooring in early December 2020. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I accept that water 
ingress occurred and that this led to the staining Mrs and Mr S reported to Aviva. 
Mrs and Mr S argue that water entered their home as a result of a storm damaging their roof 
tiles. But Aviva assert that theres no evidence to demonstrate any damage as a result of a 
one-off storm event. So here, the question is whether Avia acted unfairly and unreasonably 
in declining Mrs and Mr S storm claim.
Mrs and Mr S policy with Aviva provides cover for damage caused by a range of perils that 
might happen. These are specific one-off events and include storm, for example. But, in 
order for a claim to be successful, the onus is on Mrs and Mr S to show that the damage 
theyre claiming for was caused by one of the perils listed in their policy. 
There are three conditions that need to be met before this service would say a claim for 
storm damage should succeed. Those are:  
1. Is there evidence that there was a storm around the date of the damage?
2. Is the damage consistent with what we would normally consider storm damage?
3. Was the storm the main cause of the damage?
I have re-assessed Mrs and Mr S complaint and all the evidence with these three questions 
in mind. Id like to clarify that all three questions must be answered affirmatively for this 
service to be able to recommend that a storm complaint is upheld.
In weighing up the first question, I can see that Mrs and Mr S policy doesnt define the word 
storm. This isnt unusual. And, in that scenario, this service takes the view that a storm 
generally involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or snow. 
When looking a wind speed, we generally consider wind speeds of 47 mph or above to be 
consistent with a storm. So, this is what Ive thought about when deciding whether there 
were storm conditions on or around the date of Mrs and Mr S claim.Mrs and Mr S say they noticed water staining to their loft floor on 4 December 2020. As 
theres nothing to suggest that Mrs and Mr S regularly access their loft, Ive checked the 
weather reports relevant to their locality for storm conditions from 14 November until 4 
December 2020. Im satisfied that this is a reasonable period over which to review weather 
records.  
I can see that on 17 November 2020 there were wind speeds of 55 mph recorded. This is 
the highest wind speed recorded during the period Ive checked. So, Im satisfied there was 
a storm around three weeks before the date the damage was noticed by Mrs and Mr S. It 
follows that I can therefore answer question one affirmatively.
Turning now to the second question, Ive thought about whether the damage caused is 
consistent with what we would normally consider to be storm damage. In this case, there 
was water ingress causing staining to the floor in the loft. Roof tiles were also found to be 
loose. This is damage that our service has seen in other property claims following a storm.  
So, Im able to answer the second question affirmatively.
As regards the third question I have to address, S said that it didnt observe any damage to 
the roof during its inspection that was consistent with a one-off storm related event. But I can 
see that Mrs and Mr S have questioned the adequacy of S inspection. 
Im satisfied that Aviva acted reasonably in instructing S to provide its opinion on the 
condition of Mrs and Mr S roof  particularly in circumstances where they were asserting 
that their roof had been damaged following a storm. 
Ive seen photographs that satisfy me that S undertook a thorough inspection of Mrs and Mr 
S roof. This was undertaken via a telescopic pole and the photographs obtained using that 
method are clear. They depict the general condition of the ridge tiling and dont reveal the 
presence of any damage thats been caused by an isolated storm event. 
Mrs and Mr S have provided our service with two invoices from A. The initial invoice 
recommended rebuilding the ridge. As S hadnt identified any storm related damage to the 
roof, I can understand why Aviva felt that As recommendation to rebuild the ridge indicated 
that there was a defect in the construction of the roof. I dont think that was an unreasonable 
conclusion based on S opinion, the photographs it had taken and the work that A had 
recommended.
As second invoice confirms that the only remedial work it undertook was to secure the ridge 
tiles. I think that when Aviva considered the revised invoice it should have reassessed its 
opinion that there was a design flaw or defect. I say this because, based on the available 
evidence, there isnt enough to persuade me that there was a design flaw in the construction 
of Mrs and Mr S roof. 
As Ive already explained, for me to direct Aviva to settle Mrs and Mr S claim, Id have to be 
satisfied that the damage was caused by a one-off storm event. But based on all the 
available evidence, Im not persuaded that the damage Mrs and Mr S reported was caused 
in this way. Ill explain why. 
As invoice clearly states that the work it undertook was needed due to constant wind 
vibrating the ridge tiles which is loosening all nails connecting the ridge together. Its clear 
from the video Mrs and Mr S provided our service that these tiles are very loose. But, based 
on what As stated on its invoice, Im satisfied that the loosening of these tiles has happened 
gradually  worsening over time. Mrs and Mr S argue that their loft didnt sustain water damage prior to early December 2020. 
But Im persuaded that the storm the previous month highlighted the pre-existing issues with 
the ridge tiles, which were already loose. And I think the storm caused their condition to 
worsen, which resulted in the water ingress. 
I know Mrs and Mr S will be disappointed with this decision. They feel very strongly about 
the issues raised in their complaint. However, for the reasons outlined, I havent seen 
enough to persuade me that the damage Mrs and Mr S reported happened as a result of a 
one-off weather event as their policy requires. I therefore dont think Aviva acted 
unreasonably in declining their claim under the storm peril. And, based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I cant fairly say it ought to have considered their claim under any other peril listed in 
their policy. So, Im not going to tell Aviva to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mrs and Mr S dispute with Aviva 
informally, can do for them. Im sorry we cant help Mrs and Mr S any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman