DRN-4226155
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy with My Community Bank (MCB), who is a trading name of Brent Shrine 
Credit Union Limited. Although Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited is responsible for the 
actions of My Community Bank, for ease, I have referred to MCB throughout this decision. 
Mrs S complains MCB lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs S fell victim to an investment scam in early 2022. As part of the scam, Mrs S was led to 
believe she needed to pay fees and charges to withdraw funds from her investment. She 
didnt have the funds to meet these costs and so, over a space of three weeks, Mrs S and 
her husband applied to borrow £156,450 over 11 loans with several different lenders. 
In April 2022 Mrs S applied to MCB for, and was given a loan for £19,000, which was 
repayable over a period of 60 months. The repayments were around £442 a month, and in 
total Mrs S agreed to pay back about £26,986 over the five years, after interest was added. 
Mrs S says she was groomed and coached by the scammers on how to apply for the loans. 
Mrs S thinks MCB should have checked her circumstances more thoroughly before agreeing 
to lend because with better checks, MCB ought to have seen she could not afford this loan.
MCB says it completed appropriate checks before it approved lending to Mrs S and these 
showed the borrowing was affordable. It also ran checks to verify Mrs S details including her 
name, address and bank details and these didnt lead it to believe the loan application wasn't 
made by Mrs S.
MCB didnt uphold Mrs S complaint but in an act of forbearance given her predicament, it 
agreed a reduced repayment plan whilst her banks continue to look into the matter and 
should Mrs S need more time to seek debt advice.
Unhappy with the response Mrs S got from MCB, she brought her complaint to this service. 
Mrs S wants MCB to forgo collecting on the loan altogether. Our investigator considered the 
complaint. He concluded that with reasonable and proportionate checks, MCB would have 
considered Mrs S able to sustainably afford this loan.
Mrs S disagreed with the investigator and because an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
Mrs S loan with MCB is last in the chain of nine accepted loan applications and this decision 
is looking only at this one loan agreement. I am aware Mrs S (and her husband) have 
referred other cases concerning some of the other loan applications and these have 
been/shall be looked at under separate case references.
In my provisional decision I explained that:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs S complaint. Having done all of that, 
Im not currently persuaded it was reasonable for MCB to agree to lend  Ill explain my 
reasons.
MCB needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mrs S irresponsibly. It 
should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs S 
would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. There is no set list of what reasonable 
and proportionate checks should look like. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders 
checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to 
verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do 
more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
MCB did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. MCB has said Mrs S 
would not have been offered the loan if she had not passed its checking criteria. In 
summary, it explained that part of its checks involved reviewing Mrs S credit profile to 
assess her income and expenditure, and it also used information from Mrs S active credit 
file.
At this point, I do think its important for me to set out that MCB was required to establish 
whether Mrs S could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just whether the loan 
payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Mrs S was borrowing a reasonably large amount - £19,000  over a significant term. Mrs S 
was in permanent employment on a good salary  she had declared she earnt £52,000 a 
year when applying for the loan. MCB used an automated check of her current account 
turnover to validate the declared income. I have some concerns about MCB only relying on a 
credit reference agency data tool to analyse Mrs S current account turnover data and 
validate the income she had declared. I say this because her current account was held 
jointly with her husband, his salary was credited to the same account and I cannot see how 
its checks would differentiate between Mrs and Mrs salary credits.
MCB calculated that Mrs S paid £840 towards her share of the mortgage and £912 towards 
other credit commitments each month. It also allowed £800 towards other expenses, which 
brought Mrs S total monthly expenditure to £2,552. MCB hasnt shown us the figure it used 
to assess Mrs S monthly income and whether she could afford the loan she was applying 
for. In the absence of this information, Im not convinced MCBs checks went far enough.
The Investigator suggested Mrs S gross annual income equated to £3,236 a month, which 
presumably allowed for income tax and national insurance deductions. But, noting Mrs S 
public sector employment, I think it would be reasonable to expect further deductions  for 
example towards an occupational pension. I think, considering the significant commitment 
posed by the monthly repayments to the loan, MCB ought to have got a more reliable 
understanding of Mrs S take home pay, for example by reviewing her payslips or bank 
statements. 
Mrs S has provided us with bank statements to show her financial circumstances at the time 
she applied for the loan. In the absence of anything else from MCB showing what its 
information would have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to 
place considerable weight on what this information says as an indication of what Mrs S take 
home pay would more likely than not to have been at the time of her application. Mrs S 
current account statements show that her average take home pay between January and 
March 2022 had been around £2,885 a month. So with better checks, I think MCB ought to have seen that Mrs S didnt have enough free 
income to afford the £443 monthly repayment to the loan she was applying for. Im therefore 
satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown 
MCB that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mrs S.
Finally, Ive considered whether MCB ought to have identified Mrs S application was in 
connection to the investment scam she had fallen victim to. But the evidence from the time 
does not support the application being less than genuine  for example, the funds were 
released to a bank account which MCB had confirmed as belonging to Mrs S. MCB 
understood the purpose Mrs S intended to put the loan monies towards was paying for home 
improvements, so I cant fairly say it could have prevented Mrs S investment in the scam.
Responses
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 21 June 2023, which I agreed to extend until 28 June 2023 at the 
request of both parties.
MCB disagreed with my provisional findings and in summary, it said:
It didnt obtain pay slips or bank statements because Mrs S didnt meet its policy 
requirements on when to do so.
The credit reference agency MCB employed to verify Mrs S income didnt flag that her 
income was paid into a joint account.
The credit reference agency verifies net income.
Mrs S bank account is not a joint account  the statements she gave the lender dont 
name a second account holder but do show her husbands salary credit.
Mrs S application followed its own internal policies and procedures.
Mrs S replied and in summary, she said:
MCB lent irresponsibly and ought to have asked whether she had applied for other loans.
I should not assume she would not have disclosed the other loans she taken out if 
asked.
The provisional decision fails to resolve her situation nor prevent lenders from continuing 
to lend irresponsibly.
Mrs M provided details of an online article about investment fraud.
Mrs M asked that I reconsider how MCB should put right its shortcomings, taking 
account of the impact the scam has had on her and her familys lives, and tell MCB to 
write off the debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered both MCB and Mrs S submissions carefully, but Im not persuaded to reach 
a different outcome to my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
It may also help if I explain for Mrs S that this service was set up to consider individual 
complaints, so its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to make findings about a businesss wider practices or processes  that is something for the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) to do, and they have the power to fine and punish businesses 
where appropriate.
Mrs S suggests MCB ought to have asked whether she had applied for other loans and I 
should not assume she would not have disclosed the other loans she taken out if asked. As I 
explained in my provisional decision, there is no set list of what reasonable and 
proportionate checks should look like. In Mrs S case, I already think MCBs checks didnt go 
far enough and so whether MCB ought to have asked whether she had applied for other 
loans isnt material to the outcome I have reached.
MCB says Mrs S bank account is not a joint account after reviewing the statements she sent 
it as part of her claim to the lender. These duplicate statements did not name the account 
holder(s) but only the person requesting the duplicate statement, in this case Mrs S. As I 
mentioned in my provisional decision, this service is also considering Mrs S complaint about 
her claim for reimbursement from her bank and as a result, I can be quite certain of the fact 
that Mrs S account is held jointly with her husband. As for the credit reference agency not 
flagging to MCB that her income was paid into a joint account, that is matter between MCB 
and the credit reference agency. But it doesnt lessen MCBs obligation to ensure Mrs M 
could repay any new lending sustainably  and a good starting point, given the size and 
length of the commitment, would be to get a thorough understanding of her income and 
expenditure.
I still think that with better checks, MCB ought to have seen that Mrs S didnt have enough 
free income to afford the £443 monthly repayment to the loan she was applying for. Im 
therefore satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely than not have 
shown MCB that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mrs S.
Putting things right
Im sorry to hear of the devastating impact this matter has had, and is having on, Mrs S and 
her family. I dont wish to cause them any further distress  but I must give my decision 
based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable, taking into account all of the evidence in 
the circumstances relating to this individual case. 
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business  
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in 
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened.
In this case, that would mean putting Mrs S in the position she would now be in if she hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mrs S 
was given the loan and she used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo whats 
already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mrs S back in the position she would be in if 
she hadnt been given the loan in the first place.
I note Mrs S wants MCB to forgo collecting on the loan altogether. But given I dont find that 
MCB ought to have taken more action to prevent Mrs S from investing in the scam, I dont 
think that is a fair way of putting things right. Mrs S says she did not benefit from the loan 
because the funds were lost to an investment scam. As I explained in the above, it was not 
foreseeable to MCB how Mrs S intended to use the loan funds. Mrs S did have the benefit of 
the loan funds insofar as they were paid to her bank account, albeit she then transferred and 
lost the money to the scam. Mr and Mrs S have approached their banks to seek the return of 
those transferred funds and their responses are under separate consideration by this service. In the circumstances, I cannot reasonably hold MCB responsible for all or part of 
Mrs S loss to the scam or tell it to write-off the loan.
I must consider another way of putting things right fairly and reasonably given the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think MCB Limited should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The payments 
Mrs S made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If the payments 
Mrs S has made total more than the amount she was originally lent, then any surplus 
should be treated as overpayments and refunded to her. 
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were 
paid by Mrs S to the date the complaint is settled.
c) Agree with Mrs S an affordable plan to repay any amount left owing.
d) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs S credit file as a result of this loan 
(once Mrs S has repaid any outstanding balance).
*HM Revenue & Customs may require MCB to deduct tax from this interest. MCB should 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted.
I would only remind MCB about its obligations to treat Mrs S fairly and offer due forbearance 
should she now find herself in financial hardship.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mrs S complaint. Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited, 
trading as My Community Bank should put things right for her in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman