DRN-3090237
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc trading as Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions 
was late in notifying her about congestion charge penalties incurred.  
What happened
In November 2020 Mrs B received notification from Hitachi that she had incurred a 
congestion charge fine in relation to October 2020. Mrs B contacted Hitachi to query the fine 
and was advised about other fines she had incurred dating back to July 2020.
Mrs B disputed the fines. She said that whilst she accepted that the congestion charge rules 
had changed and it was her responsibility to make herself aware of these, she also said that 
if Hitachi had notified her promptly about the July 2020 charge, she wouldve been alerted to 
the changes in the rules and wouldnt have incurred further fines.
Hitachi said that it had paid all of the fines on receipt and re-charged them to Mrs B. It 
acknowledged that there had been a delay in paying the first two fines which had resulted in 
a higher charge being applied and credited Mrs Bs account to reduce the fines to £80 each. 
It also credited the August and November fines. Mrs B wasnt happy with the response and 
complained to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In that decision, I said that there was no 
dispute that Hitachi had a contractual right to charge Mrs B, but I thought the right to charge 
had been compromised by a failure to notify Mrs B about the charges within a reasonable 
time. I said that I hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that Hitachi had notified Mrs B about 
the July and August fines prior to November 2020, and I thought this was unreasonable 
delay. Because of this, I didnt think it was fair of Hitachi to charge Mrs B for the July and 
August fines. I noted that Hitachi had credited the August fine as a gesture of goodwill but I 
said it should also credit the July fine.
In relation to the October and November fines, I was satisfied that Hitachi had notified Mrs B 
about these within a reasonable time. Hitachi had credited the October fine as a gesture of 
goodwill. I said that November fine should stand.  
I invited both parties to let me have any further information or arguments they wanted to 
raise. Neither party responded. The matter has been passed to me to review again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision. In the circumstances, I see no 
reason to reach different conclusions to those which I set out in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions must credit Mrs B for the July fine. The 
November fines stand.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Hitachi Capital Vehicle Solutions must take 
the steps set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman