DRN-2101664
The complaint
Mrs B says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1997. The policy was added to 
Mrs Bs credit card account when she applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. 
Mrs B recently told us MBNA insisted, during a phone call, that she bought the PPI when she 
took out the card. There arent any records to show what was said in that call, but MBNA has 
sent us an application form that shows Mrs B applied for the card and the PPI by post, rather 
than simply over the phone. She appears to have filled in the application herself and ticked a 
box to say she wanted the PPI  and there was a no option available. I dont know if Mrs B 
is thinking about another phone call, or if she did have one with MBNA before she got the 
form in the post. But I do I think MBNA made it clear she had a choice about whether to buy 
the PPI or not.
Ive also taken into account that MBNA didnt recommend the PPI  so it didnt have to check 
if it was suitable for her. Mrs B told us recently that she was ill when she bought the PPI, but 
doesnt want to provide any more details about her illness because she finds it too upsetting. 
Im sorry about that, but it does mean that without some more evidence I cant tell MBNA to 
take it into account. 
Mrs B wouldnt have been affected by any of the other exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman