DRN-2444319
The complaint
Mr H complains that RAC Financial Services Ltd (RAC) did not make him aware that his 
roadside assistance policy would automatically renew. He also believes they have failed to 
put reasonable adjustments in place when communicating with him. 
What happened
Mr H took out a new roadside assistance policy with RAC in May 2018. It auto-renewed in 
2019 and 2020. It was only after that Mr H says he realised the policy was still in place and 
had auto-renewed. RAC refunded Mr H his 2020 premium as he had contacted them within 
the cancellation period. 
Mr H complained to RAC. He said that he was not aware it would auto-renew and as the car 
had previously been scrapped in March 2019, he had not had any need for the policy after 
that point. He was particularly unhappy as he had a new policy in place for another car. 
RAC wrote to Mr H to say that his initial policy had been set up online and it was confirmed 
that it would automatically renew. It also said that the policy documentation had confirmed 
this and had been sent to the email address he had specified. RAC did confirm that if Mr H 
provided dated confirmation of the scrappage, they would consider a further refund. 
However, this was not provided. 
Due to his dyslexia, Mr H requested that an audio copy of the policy documentation be sent 
to him rather than a written copy. RAC said that they didnt have the capability to do that, but 
that it could be sent as a PDF document and Mr H could choose to have the system read it 
to him. 
Mr H remained unhappy with this and RACs response in general, so he brought his 
complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into matters and didnt think that RAC had 
done anything wrong. She said that the policy documentation had confirmed that it would 
auto-renew. She also said that it was reasonable that RAC were not able to send an audio 
copy of the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr H disagrees. He says that he had no need for the policy after the car was scrapped. He 
also said that RAC had failed to make a reasonable adjustment by not providing the policy 
documentation in an audio format.
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Mr H that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Mr H took this policy out online and RAC has confirmed that all policies taken out this way 
have rolling payments, meaning that they would auto-renew. I have looked to see if RAC did 
enough to make sure that Mr H was made aware of this. 
RAC has provided a screenshot of what Mr H should have seen when he completed the 
online application. It says, when you buy annual cover online, your cover will 
automatically renew on your renewal date. RAC have also provided a copy of the policy 
documentation provided to Mr H when he took the policy out. They specify that we will 
contact you at the last known postal or email address before the renewal date to confirm 
whether your policy will continue with us along with any changes. If you have authorised us 
to hold on to your account details, we will automatically renew your policy.
Further to this, Mr Hs welcome letter in May 2018 said that the policy had automatic yearly 
renewal by credit card. He also received a renewal letter in April 2019 which said that Mr 
Hs policy would renew automatically on 18 May 2019. I am satisfied that RAC did 
enough to make Mr H aware that his breakdown cover would automatically renew. 
RAC refunded Mr Hs 2020 premium as he had contacted them and complained within the 
cancellation period for that renewal. They also offered to consider a further refund if Mr H 
could show that his car was scrapped, which he so far hasnt done. I am satisfied that RAC 
acted fairly with this refund and offer to consider the 2019 premium. 
Mr H has said he should have been provided with an audio version of the policy 
documentation. Whilst I understand that Mr H has dyslexia and an audio version would be 
better for him, I cant see anything to suggest that RAC were made aware of this until he 
complained in 2020. I therefore dont hold them responsible for not providing the policy 
documentation in a different format for Mr H.  
Mr H is unhappy that RAC continue not to provide him with an audio version and believes 
they are not making a reasonable adjustment for him. However, Mr H has been provided 
with summaries and explanations of what the policy documentation says. He has also been 
made aware of how the document can be read to him in the PDF format that he has been 
sent. RAC dont have the capability to provide audio versions. Whilst it would have been 
better if they had, I am satisfied they have acted fairly and reasonable and made sufficient 
effort to ensure the policy documentation has been made clear to Mr H. 
Overall, I am satisfied that RAC did enough to make Mr H aware his policy would 
automatically renew. They have acted fairly in refunding him his 2020 premium and offering 
to consider that further, based on evidence of the scrappage. I am also satisfied that RAC 
have done enough to ensure Mr H is aware of his policy documentation in light of his 
dyslexia. 
I know Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what 
we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with RAC  can do for him.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman