The complaint
Mrs N complains TSB Bank plc misled her about the rate of exchange that would be applied 
to an international payment. She is also unhappy about the customer service she received.
The TSB bank account referred to in this complaint, is held in the joint names of Mrs N and 
Mr E. Both parties have given consent for our service to look at Mrs Ns complaint.
What happened
Mrs N held an overseas bank account with another bank (overseas bank) and a joint 
account with TSB. On 17 September 2019 she called TSB  Mrs N intended to transfer 
$100,000 into her TSB account and wanted to know whether it offered a better rate of 
exchange than the overseas bank.
The call handler couldnt provide Mrs N with the exchange rates offered by TSB. She said 
this was because these could change depending on the day and the moment the 
international payment was received. Mrs N was advised to log in to her internet banking 
where shed find the relevant exchange rate offered by TSB. The call handler said the 
exchange rate would be similar to what Mrs N could receive.
On the same day, Mrs N logged into her account and this showed an indicative exchange 
rate of 1.21. Shed been offered a fixed rate of 1.256 by the overseas bank so believing TSB 
was offering the better rate, she decided to transfer the payment in US dollars. A few days 
later, Mrs N learned an exchange rate of 1.286163 had been applied to the payment by TSB. 
This meant she received £4,893 less than she was expecting. This was also less than she 
wouldve received if shed accepted the fixed exchange rate offered by the overseas bank. 
Mrs N complained to TSB. She felt shed been misled and wanted TSB to pay the difference 
arising from receiving a lower than anticipated exchange rate.
TSB didnt uphold Mrs Ns complaint saying it hadnt made an error. It explained that when 
processing an inbound international payment, the converted amount received will depend on 
who converts the currency. If the overseas bank sends the payment in local currency which 
in this case was dollars, then TSB will convert it into pounds. TSB noted its exchange rates 
which includes its commission, can change minute by minute and this was communicated to 
Mrs N before her transfer. 
Unhappy with TSBs response, Mrs N referred the matter to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. In brief, he concluded TSB had made it 
reasonably clear the exchange rate Mrs N was shown online, was indicative only and that 
shed only know the actual exchange rate once the payment had been made.
Mrs N disagreed. In summary she said:
DRN-1972020TSB hadnt provided her with good customer service over the phone. And as an 
"ordinary retired person" she expected the bank to provide her with a clear answer to 
her question what is your exchange rate between the dollar and the pound?; 
She accepted the exchange rate "virtually blindfolded" and if shed known what the 
TSB rate was going to be, she would have instructed the overseas bank to do the 
conversion;
She wasnt sure if delays had led to her receiving a worse exchange rate as she 
didnt receive the payment until the next working day after the transfer instruction; 
She thinks TSB had profited unfairly by giving her a worse exchange rate and no 
other banks had seen such a big change in rates on the day of the transfer.
Mrs N asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my reasoning, I understand that Mrs N has raised a number of points during 
her contact with this service. Although I may not mention every point she's raised, Ive 
considered everything Mrs N has said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on 
the outcome of the case.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ns account say TSB uses its standard exchange rate for 
buying the relevant currency that applies on the day we receive the payment. It goes on to 
say that it can change its standard exchange rates at any time. When TSB receives 
payment in a different currency, it will covert this into the currency of the customers account 
and will calculate this according to the standard exchange rate on the day the payment is 
credited.
The call handler told Mrs N that the exchange rate would only be known after the payment 
had been received into her account. Whilst I accept this meant Mrs N was operating 
blindfolded, Im satisfied that she (Mrs N) was made aware of how TSB processed 
international inbound payments. And this process meant she would only know the exchange 
rate once the payment had been received into her account.
Mrs N says the call handler misled her by recommending that she log in to her internet 
banking to check the exchanges rates. And that she was relying on TSB to give her clear 
information. Whilst the call handler did say Mrs N could expect to get a similar rate from the 
ones shown online via her internet banking, I can hear she was also made aware these rates 
could change and this could happen at any moment.
Mrs N says she wouldve accepted the overseas fixed rate offer if shed known she would 
be worse off. But from everything Ive see, Mrs N did understand TSBs rates were indicative 
only and that, unlike the fixed rate shed been offered by the overseas sending bank, the 
rates were subject to change. So whilst its unfortunate Mrs N didnt select the better option, I 
cant hold TSB responsible that.
Mrs N doesnt think the rate offered by TSB was fair in comparison to rates offered by other 
financial institutions. She says TSB have profited unfairly by changing its exchange rate to 
one less favourable to her. She also says other financial institutions who provide this service, 
give clear daily exchange rates and shed expected TSB to do the same. I can understand why Mrs N might consider TSBs information doesnt allow her to easily 
compare rates with other businesses, or to know what shell get on transfer. Other 
businesses on the day may have had different rates, but TSB arent obliged to provide a 
breakdown of how its exchange rate is established. Further, TSB was within its rights to set 
its own exchange rates at a level it deems appropriate and that is a legitimate exercise of its 
commercial judgement. So I dont find TSB was at fault when it used an exchange rate that 
Mrs N thought wasnt favourable to her. And I dont think the rate applied to Mrs Ns transfer 
could be described as unfair simply because it was different from the better rates shed 
seen elsewhere.
Mrs N says that TSB may have delayed converting the money as she only received payment 
a day after she gave the instruction to transfer to the overseas bank. But this instruction was 
given after TSBs cut-off point of 2pm for US dollars (outside of New York) transfers  after 
this time any inbound payments are processed the next day. This is set out in the TSB terms 
and conditions. Ive also seen nothing to suggest anything other than the exchange rate in 
force at the relevant time was used.
Mrs N is unhappy with the level of service she received over the phone. The terms and 
conditions of TSB current account under International payments into your account says: 
You can find out our standard exchange rate by calling us on the number given in the 
contacts section at the beginning of this document. This didnt happen. But all in all, I think 
Mrs N was given a reasonable alternative to log in to her internet banking which I can hear 
she was content to do. Also the call handler gave Mrs N information about the way 
international payments were processed and about relevant charges that might apply. 
Overall, I think Mrs N was treated reasonably and fairly during her call with TSB. 
So whilst its perfectly understandable that Mrs N wanted the best exchange rate for the 
money she transferred to her account, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied TSB 
hasnt done anything wrong here. Im sorry if this outcome disappoints Mrs N.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 October 2020.
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman