DRN-3081403
The complaint
Mrs B has complained about the way in which Lowell Financial Ltd administered a debt and 
recorded it on her credit file.
What happened
This complaint is about a consumer credit debt which was sold to Lowell in 2018 after having 
already defaulted. Mrs B then made a payment arrangement with Lowell, though many of 
her payments didnt go through as her bank said there were insufficient funds.
In May 2019, Lowell stopped taking the direct debit payments due to an administrative error 
on their end. Since it wasnt being used, the direct debit got cancelled in August 2019. Lowell 
then wrote to Mrs B and she set the payment plan up again in September 2019, with two 
payments left to go. But her first direct debit payment failed, again due to insufficient funds.
Mrs B then paid this first payment manually, while the second payment was still pending via 
direct debit. Since the first payment had now been made, and the second was  in theory  
on its way, Lowells systems recorded that Mrs B had cleared her account and automatically 
sent her a letter to say the balance was now zero.
However, the second direct debit payment then also failed due to insufficient funds. So there 
was still a remaining balance for the final payment. This caused some confusion, and Mrs B 
didnt make her final payment until February 2020.
Mrs B complained. Between getting her direct debit cancelled and later telling her the 
balance was zero when it wasnt, Mrs B said Lowell had delayed the settlement of her 
account  so it would be on her credit file for longer. She said it wasnt showing on her credit 
file that the default had been satisfied. And she was unhappy that the default had been 
applied in the first place, saying she hadnt received the proper notice.
Lowell explained they hadnt defaulted the account; the original creditor had. They accepted 
theyd made an error in not collecting the direct debit and had caused some confusion with 
their automatic letter. Though they noted Mrs Bs direct debits had kept failing, so they didnt 
think it was likely shed have satisfied the default much earlier. They apologised for their 
mistakes and offered her £50 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and felt Lowell had already dealt with 
things reasonably. They explained the account had defaulted before it got sold to Lowell, so 
the original creditor was responsible for that rather than Lowell. They checked what 
information Lowell were reporting to the credit reference agencies and found they were 
reporting the default as satisfied. They felt Lowell had already offered sufficient 
compensation for the delays involved.
Mrs B didnt agree. She reiterated her unhappiness with the default and felt Lowell should be 
responsible for it. She felt Lowell had misled her and delayed things, and that their offer of 
compensation wasnt enough for that. But she did note that the default was now appearing 
as satisfied on her end, so she was happy with that.
Mrs B asked for her case to be reviewed afresh, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I sent Mrs B and Lowell a provisional decision on 1 September 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Regarding the default, I do appreciate that Mrs B disagrees with its basis, and I understand 
her argument that since Lowell are also reporting the default on her credit file, they must 
have some responsibility for it.
However, Mrs Bs account was defaulted before being sold to Lowell. And when Lowell 
bought the account, they didnt take on responsibility for things the original creditor did 
beforehand. So the original creditor are the ones responsible for adding the default, rather 
than Lowell.
Lowell are just reporting the default because thats the information they were given by the 
original creditor. And if the original creditor accepts they were wrong to have defaulted the 
account  or if we tell the original creditor they were wrong  then Lowell will remove the 
default on their side too. So Mrs Bs complaint about the default is best directed against the 
original creditor in any case. I understand she has raised things with them. If she still hasnt 
heard back from the original creditor, or if shes had a final response that shes unhappy 
with, Mrs B can let our investigator know and we can set up a separate case against them. 
But Im not going to consider the issue of adding the default in this case against Lowell, as it 
wasnt Lowell who did it.
Regarding the default being marked as satisfied, Ive reviewed the data Lowell have been 
reporting to the credit reference agencies and I can see theyve been correctly reporting the 
default as satisfied. Its not clear why this wasnt showing up on Mrs Bs end at first  it may 
have been because she was using a third-party company to view her file, or it may have 
been an error or delay on the credit reference agencys end. But Im satisfied Lowell were 
reporting it correctly, and Im glad to hear its showing correctly for Mrs B now.
Ive thought carefully about the issue of the delays in satisfying the default. It looks like both 
sides accept that Lowell got things wrong in failing to collect Mrs Bs direct debit from May 
2019, and in telling her the balance was clear in October 2019 when it wasnt. I think these 
errors will have almost certainly had some effect in delaying the date the default was 
satisfied.
Mrs B argued that since she had only two payments left in May 2019, then had Lowell not 
failed to collect payments, she might have cleared her account as early as July 2019. I can 
certainly understand this argument. With that said, I do note that Mrs Bs direct debit 
payments were failing quite often indeed  around half the time. So it doesnt seem likely 
that she would have satisfied the account as early as July 2019. But even if we assume that Mrs Bs payments would have continued failing half the time, she 
only had two payments left by that point. So in theory, it would have only taken her about 
four months to clear the account. Had Lowell not made their errors, and had they continued 
to take payments from May 2019, it seems both plausible and likely that Mrs B would have 
cleared this account by September 2019. And it looks like her payments were on the 19th of 
each month under that plan.
On that basis, I think it would be fair for Lowell to backdate the settlement date of the 
account to 19 September 2019, to better reflect what would have happened had they not 
made their errors.
When a business gets things wrong, we also often tell them to pay compensation  to 
acknowledge their error and the impact it had.
In thinking about the impact this had on Mrs B, Ive kept in mind that it would have been 
really quite distressing for Mrs B to have thought her payment plan was over, only to find out 
that Lowell had in fact not been taking the payments. And then later to have been told her 
debt was clear, only to find out that it wasnt. I also understand that Mrs B was going through 
a truly tough time while all this was going on, not least given her job and the pandemic. And 
Lowell added to her troubles and stress in what was already a very difficult time.
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and we need to be 
consistent. Taking everything into account, I think £200 compensation better reflects the 
distress and inconvenience that Lowell caused Mrs B here.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
29 September 2021. Mrs B let us know she was happy with the provisional decision, and 
Lowell didnt add anything further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
Putting things right
I direct Lowell Financial Ltd to:
Backdate the default satisfaction date to 19 September 2019; and
Pay Mrs B £200 compensation in total.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint, and direct Lowell Financial Ltd to put things right in the way I set 
out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman