DRN-2521058
The complaint
Mr F complains that Revolut blocked and closed his account and returned his account 
balance to a third party. To put things right, he wants Revolut to pay him the account 
balance he held at the date his account was blocked.
What happened
On 9 August 2019, Revolut blocked Mr Fs account, while it carried out a review. It asked Mr 
F a number of questions about his account, but didnt tell him why it had blocked the 
account. And said it couldnt give Mr F a timescales for when the review would be complete.
Mr F asked Revolut to release his money several times, but it declined to do so while the 
review was ongoing. So Mr F complained. On 11 September 2019, Revolut issued its final 
response to Mr Fs complaint. It said it couldnt disclose the reason for the review because of 
security reasons, and that it needed more time to complete its investigation.
Mr F rejected Revoluts reply and brought his complaint to our service. On 4 December 
2019, Revolut completed its review and wrote to Mr F to say it had closed his account and 
returned the balance to a third party, who had sent him the funds in the first place.
Our investigator looked at Mr Fs complaint, but didnt think Revolut had acted unfairly. She 
noted that not all of the funds had come directly from the third party, but was satisfied that 
the money didnt belong to Mr F, so she didnt think Revolut should have to do anything to 
put matters right for Mr F.
Mr F didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of Mr F, I would need to be satisfied that Revolut 
acted unfairly or took action it wasnt entitled to take. And, having looked at the evidence, Im 
satisfied that Revolut acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr 
Fs account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that 
govern the relationship between Revolut and Mr F.
I understand Mr F was frustrated by the time Revolut took to complete its review. And I can 
see he chased them several times, using the in-app chat function. So Ive looked at the 
evidence Revolut has provided and Ive thought about the actions it would have had to take 
during the review.
Having done so, I wont ask Revolut to compensate Mr F for the time the review took to 
complete. And Im satisfied the time it took was not unreasonable, considering the extent of 
the investigation it needed to complete. Im also satisfied Revolut was under no obligation to 
disclose the reasons for its review.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account  which both Revolut and Mr F had to comply with  
allow it to close the account without notice in certain circumstances. 
Having considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied that Revolut acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr Fs account. So, I cant 
reasonably say Revolut treated Mr F unfairly by closing his account without notice.
Account balance
Before a bank releases funds held in a customers account, its entitled to carry out checks to 
ensure its complying with its legal and regulatory obligations.
After completing those checks, Revolut decided to send payments of £466.22 and £12.22 
back to a third party. Ive listened to what Revolut has said about why it returned the funds to 
source, and Ive listened to what Mr F has said about why hes entitled to those funds. 
Having done so, I wont be asking Revolut to pay Mr F the money back.
This was a close decision and one that Ive made on the balance of probabilities. I 
understand why Revolut had concerns about the way Mr F was operating his account. And 
its the nature of its concerns and the evidence Ive seen relating to the funds in Mr Fs 
account and Mr Fs use of his account thats persuaded me Revolut was entitled to return 
the funds to sender, rather than to Mr F.
I understand Mr F says the third partys account was also blocked, but that is a separate 
matter and something the third party will need to address. And given Ive said Revout was 
entitled to return the funds to a third party, it follows that Revolut isnt responsible to Mr F for 
recovery of funds it was entitled to revert.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman