DRN-3221933
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lifesure Group Limited took a payment from his account after hed 
requested his policy be cancelled. 
What happened
Mr H held a motor insurance policy with Lifesure. In August 2020 he contacted Lifesure 
requesting that his policy be cancelled. Lifesure agreed to the request, but explained that a 
balance of around £178 would need to be paid  which took into account costs for the time 
on cover, and the policy cancellation fees. Mr H said he wasnt in a position to pay the 
amount in one lump sum, so Lifesure agreed to email him details of a repayment plan. 
Around two weeks after Mr H was led to believe his policy had been cancelled, a direct debit 
for £184.99 was taken from Mr Hs account. Mr H said it had been agreed the payment 
wouldnt be taken as the policy had been cancelled and a payment plan had been offered. 
He said the money didnt come back to his account until around four days later, and this left 
him in a very difficult position. He said he couldnt pay for gas, electricity or food for him and 
his child, and was having to visit food banks. So, he complained.
Lifesure responded and apologised to Mr H. They accepted the error was theirs, and that 
theyd incorrectly taken a payment they shouldnt have. So, by way of an apology, they 
agreed to remove the £57.50 cancellation fee owing, and deducted their commission 
clawback of £182.44. This resulted in Lifesure offering Mr H £62.32, instead of Mr H having 
to pay £177.62. This equated to Mr H effectively being offered £239.94 in redress. 
Mr H said he didnt expect Lifesure to reverse the fees and charges due, and was prepared 
to pay what he owed. But he said he felt Lifesure should compensate him in the region of 
£800 - £1,000 for the distress they caused. So, unhappy with Lifesures response, Mr H 
brought his case to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Hs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He agreed 
Lifesure were wrong to have taken the payment they did. But he said that in removing the 
above charges, they had reduced Mr Hs debt by around £240. He thought this was fair 
redress in the circumstances.
But Mr H remained unhappy. So as the parties disagree, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the issues at hand, I can see that Lifesure have already apologised for what 
theyve agreed was their error. Theyve accepted that theyd agreed to contact Mr H to set 
up a repayment plan and would cancel his policy, but instead allowed for a direct debit to 
leave his account. For the avoidance of doubt, I agree the error was Lifesures and that this 
payment shouldnt have been taken. While I appreciate Lifesure have admitted their error, I 
still think this wouldve been particularly distressing for Mr H, given what hes told us, so Ive 
gone on to determine what I think Lifesure should do to put things right. 
Following Lifesures error, I can see that the monies were returned to Mr Hs account around 
four days later. So as the issue with the payment itself has now been resolved, Ive looked 
next at whether I think any compensation should be paid.
Mr H has said the money was taken from his account on the Friday, and that despite 
contacting Lifesure on the Saturday, he wasnt able to speak with anyone that could help 
him. He said he was promised a call back, having called again on the Monday, but it wasnt 
until the Tuesday that his call was returned, and the money was put back in his account. He 
said this left him without money for food, gas or electricity for a number of days. 
I appreciate what Mr H has said, and I understand this must have been distressing for him. 
But looking at Lifesures response, theyve explained the reason they were unable to help 
Mr H on the Saturday was due to their offices being closed. And theyve said they only had 
their out of hours teams taking calls. So, while frustrating, I can understand why Lifesure 
would not have been in a position to resolve the issue on that day. 
While I accept Lifesure were unable to respond on the Saturday, given what Mr H has told 
us, I wouldve liked to have seen them return Mr Hs call when he called again on the 
Monday. As it seems from whats been said, Mr H had made it clear how distressing this 
matter was for him. So, its unfortunate he was left in the position he was, without access to 
this money until the following day. So, I do think some compensation is due. 
But when looking at the overall distress caused, and having taken into account Mr Hs 
circumstances, Im confident that the earliest Lifesure wouldve been in a position to resolve 
this matter would likely have been the Monday, given their offices were closed of a weekend. 
And given the money was back in Mr Hs account by the Tuesday, he wasnt left without the 
money for an extended period of time. 
I can see that Lifesure has, as Ive set out above, already agreed to deduct £182.44 in 
commission clawback from the amount Mr H owed. Theyve also agreed to remove the 
cancellation fee of £57.50 from Mr Hs policy. This has resulted in Lifesure offering Mr H a 
payment of £62.32  rather than him owing them £177.62. Which equates to a total amount 
of redress of £239.94. So, while I accept Mr H has been inconvenienced, and I appreciate 
this was a difficult time for him, in the circumstances, I think the amount Lifesure has offered 
is sufficient compensation for the distress this matter caused. 
Mr H has also said that he thinks he may have been treated differently by Lifesure had his 
name been different. But Ive seen nothing from either Lifesure, or from any supporting 
evidence Mr H has provided, that suggests to me this wouldve been the case. 
So, for the reasons set out above, Im not instructing Lifesure to pay any more than its 
already offered. 
My final decision
Lifesure Group Limited has already offered to pay Mr H £62.32, and ensure his policy is 
cancelled in settlement of his complaint. I think this offer is fair in the circumstances.
So, my decision is I uphold this complaint, and direct Lifesure Group Limited to ensure 
Mr Hs policy is cancelled, and pay Mr H £62.32.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman