DRN-3889700
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) acted irresponsibly 
when they extended loan facilities to them in 1987 and 1988.   
What happened
In 1987, Nationwide granted Mr and Mrs P a £100,000 commercial loan to purchase 
and convert an existing building into a residential care home.
According to Nationwide, as this was a start-up business, initially a moratorium on 
the loan repayments was agreed and this was set to last until November 1987. 
In 1988 Mr and Mrs P were granted a further advance of £30,000 to help with the 
purchase of adjacent land. This was so that a further building could be erected in 
order to facilitate Mr and Mrs Ps proposed expansion of their care home business.  
At the time both loans, which comprised the 1987 lending and associated rolled up 
interest, as well as the newly agreed further advance were combined into one loan 
totalling £139,000. Ill refer to both advances together as the Loan. 
Unfortunately, Mr and Mrs P were unable to secure the number of care home 
residents theyd hoped for, added to which they were also unable to obtain planning 
permission to build on the adjacent land as theyd intended. So, by January 1989 
repayments began to fall into arrears.
Attempts were made by Mr and Mrs P to diversify the business - including changing 
the use of the main property from a residential care home to student accommodation. 
But Mr and Mrs P were unable to meet the required payments towards the Loan and 
arrears continued to accrue. 
Mr and Mrs P told the society they intended selling the properties, but it would appear 
this was unsuccessful.
In August 1991 the Loan was restructured to consolidate the arrears. In addition, the 
term of the borrowing was extended to 25 years, which according to Nationwide was 
so that the repayments towards the Loan would be reduced. The consolidated 
balance stood at just over £162,000. 
Nonetheless, despite the restructure, repayment problems persisted, and further 
arrears accrued. And in 1993, the bank turned down Mr and Mrs Ps request for 
further borrowing. 
In January 1994 Nationwide obtained possession of the properties. A few months 
later, in April 1994 they were sold for £170,000. This left a shortfall of just over 
£47,000, which the society secured by way of a charge over Mr and Mrs Ps home.  
In the succeeding years, Nationwide contacted Mr and Mrs P regarding their 
repayment proposals for the shortfall. But there were no such proposals from Mr and 
Mrs P. So, in April 2019, Nationwide contacted Mr and Mrs P again regarding such 
proposals. 
However, Mr and Mrs P didnt think the request from Nationwide was fair and 
therefore, they didnt think they should be required to settle the shortfall. So, they 
complained to the society saying:
oNationwide knew their circumstances at the time they were granted the Loan. 
In particular, that they were having difficulties securing enough care home 
residents to make their business viable. 
oAt the time they applied for the further advance in 1988, the society knew 
about their local authoritys refusal to grant them planning permission to build 
on the adjacent land.  But the society, still lent them money for that 
development. 
oThey were already in arrears and struggling with their repayments at the time 
of the further advance. So, Nationwide shouldnt have lent them any more 
money.   
Nationwide said they have few records available regarding the Loan, and are unable, for 
example to provide anything demonstrating the affordability checks theyd carried out at the 
time it was granted to Mr and Mrs P. They said thats because prior to the 1991 restructure, 
the Loan was with another entity of the society and following the restructure, the Loan was 
classed as redeemed, meaning the old records were destroyed in line with the societys 
retention policy. 
But Nationwide said they believe theyd have carried out a thorough lending assessment of 
Mr and Mrs Ps before they agreed to grant the Loan to them. Therefore, they didnt think 
their lending was irresponsible.  
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr and Mrs P referred their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that given the length of time that has 
elapsed since the Loan was granted to Mr and Mrs P, Nationwide have no actual evidence 
of the affordability checks they said they carried out at the time. But she wasnt persuaded 
by the available evidence that the societys lending to Mr and Mrs P was irresponsible. In 
particular, that the society granted them the further advance in 1988 when they were already 
unable to meet their repayments and were therefore in arrears.  
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept the investigators conclusions and have asked for an 
ombudsmans review of their case. 
In their response, they have largely maintained their position that the society did not act 
responsibly when granting them the Loan. And they still believed the society granted them 
the further advance, when they were experiencing repayment difficulties and were already in 
arrears. They dont believe Nationwide should have agreed to the further advance to 
purchase the adjacent land in the absence of planning permission to erect a further building 
to expand their care home. As Mr and Mrs Ps complaint remained unresolved, it was passed to me to consider 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive (as indeed some of it is here) I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I start by saying that financial businesses have discretion regarding their lending. And in 
respect of Nationwide when making their decision whether or not to lend to Mr and Mrs P, 
thats a matter for the societys own commercial judgement. 
Generally speaking, its not for me as ombudsman to interfere with that judgement. 
Especially, in circumstances where, in my opinion, the society has exercised that judgement 
fairly after giving proper consideration to Mr and Mrs Ps application.
At the heart of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is that they think the lending by Nationwide to them 
was irresponsible. 
To help me determine that question I would ordinarily have had regard to any relevant 
industry codes as Im required to do under our DISP rules  more particularly DISP 3.6.4. 
But here, I face some difficulty in the sense that the Loan predates the codes that came into 
effect later. In particular, the lending code which set certain obligations on its subscribers to 
assess whether their customers would be able to repay the lending thats been made 
available to them. That code was issued in 2011, some years after Nationwide granted the 
Loan to Mr and Mrs P.  
That being said, the society acknowledges it had an obligation to lend responsibly and 
believes it did.
The society says that as part of its checks, it would have required various items of 
information from Mr and Mrs P for sending to its underwriting team to approve the Loan. And 
that the information it would have needed included: 
Income and Outgoings Analysis to confirm disposable income to meet the 
repayments.
Serviceability analysis at the then current rates and stressed rates to protect against 
interest rate rises.
Confirmation of income from any paid employment at the time.
Valuation report to confirm operating income that could be generated from the 
properties including a view on alternative uses.
But Nationwide have said they cannot provide actual proof these checks were carried out at 
the time of the Loan. And without the point-of-sale documentation and background notes it is 
difficult for me to say for sure whether the society did so.That being said, I have to bear in mind the Loan was granted around 35 years ago and 
furthermore, since then, the properties against which the Loan was secured have been sold 
and the lending redeemed. So, it would be difficult for me to conclude the society was at fault 
for failing to retain those records and being unable to produce them now in support of its 
position. 
That, however, is not an indication the checks werent carried out nor does it mean the Loan 
was granted irresponsibly. 
 
From their own records Mr and Mrs P have sent me a copy of the following:
A letter the society sent to them in October 1986 as part of their initial discussion 
leading up to the 1987 initial lending. 
Their 1987 statement showing the repayments they made over the course of the year 
from April 1987 when that first loan was granted to March 1988. 
A copy of the correspondence between their local authority and architect regarding 
the outcome of a 1987 planning application. 
I start with the 1986 correspondence. In it, and to help consider their application, the society 
said it needed various items of information from Mr and Mrs P - including:
Confirmation of 3 months worth of salary details. 
Evidence of qualification.
A breakdown of the costs of the conversion of the property being purchased. 
Details of fixtures; fittings and furnishings.
The amount and source of Mr and Mrs Ps contribution towards the purchase, fees, 
stock and working capital.
The information requested appears to be both detailed and relevant to an affordability 
analysis. And it supports what the society has told us regarding the information Mr and Mrs 
P would have been asked for to help it determine whether to grant the Loan. 
It seems likely Mr and Mrs P would have provided most if not all of the information 
requested. Or sufficient at least for Nationwide to come to their decision whether to agree 
the lending. And I think its likely the society would have weighed up the information before 
deciding it was appropriate to offer Mr and Mrs P a loan. 
Given this evidence, I dont think I can safely say that Nationwide omitted to carry out 
affordability checks and therefore acted irresponsibly when agreeing to lend in 1987. 
I turn next to the 1988 further advance. In relation to that lending, I note Mr and Mrs P have 
said they were struggling with their repayments and were in arrears at the time it was 
agreed. So, Ive considered very carefully the copy of the 1987 annual statement which 
theyve submitted as proof. The statement records Mr and Mrs Ps repayments over the 
course of that year. 
As noted above, Nationwide said since Mr and Mrs Ps business was a new start up, the 
society agreed to allow them a moratorium on repayments until November 1987. And I can see the 1987 statement reflects that. In other words, it shows that Mr and Mrs P commenced 
their repayments in November 1987. Although by then there had been a roll up of unpaid 
interest, this should not be confused with Mr and Mrs P being in arrears. 
More importantly the statement shows Mr and Mrs P making regular monthly payments from 
November onwards. And in the first two months of commencement, payments made were in 
excess of the interest amount they were required to pay. 
That being said, it does appear that when added up, the interest payments due on the Loan 
between November 1987 and March 1988, compared to the amounts Mr and Mrs P paid, 
there was a small shortfall of just under £200.  But I dont think thats enough for me to be 
satisfied the statement demonstrates that Mr and Mrs P were struggling to meet their regular 
monthly repayments, and this should therefore have precluded further lending to them. 
I come now to Mr and Mrs Ps case that the society agreed to lend to purchase the adjacent 
land when there was no planning permission to build on it as intended. 
Im afraid the 1987 correspondence with their architects that Mr and Mrs P have shared do 
not relate to their intended build on the adjacent land. Rather it relates to plans for a rear 
extension to the existing building that theyd purchased.  
But, in connection with the funding of the purchase of the adjacent land, Ive seen a copy of 
the Offer Letter from the society dated 6 September 1988. And I note there were a number 
of Special Conditions attached to the proposed lending at that time. It is true those 
conditions dont include the requirement that planning permission be obtained for the 
proposed new building on that land. What Nationwide required was for there to be a 
valuation that was satisfactory to the society. 
Additionally, I note that Nationwide also set limits to their proposed lending. For example, by 
restricting such lending to 50% of the freehold valuation of that adjacent land or £139,000 
total lending whichever is the lower.
This leads me to conclude that at the time of the further advance in 1988 and bearing in 
mind the restriction on the lending set out in the Special Conditions, the society took a 
commercial decision regarding the basis on which it was prepared to help finance the 
purchase of the adjacent land. This does not in my opinion suggest it was being 
irresponsible in its approach. 
Overall, looking at the evidence as a whole, Ive not been persuaded Nationwide acted 
irresponsibly when they granted the Loan to Mr and Mrs P 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman