DRN-2182383
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs B says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs B took out on a store card account in February 
1995. It was added to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Mrs B says AXA mis-sold the policy to her. She says she was told in store that to be 
successful for the card she had to take out PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
I think AXA made Mrs B aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose 
to take it. I say this because AXA has given us a copy of the store card application form from 
the time of sale. This shows there was a separate section for PPI. This separate section has a 
tick box and this has been ticked. Mrs B has then signed the application form to say she 
consented to the information contained in it. So, I think this reflected what she wanted. Had 
Mrs B not wanted the PPI she could have completed the application without the separate box 
being ticked.
So, on balance, I think Mrs B was aware the policy was optional and she agreed to take it 
out, knowing it was something she could say no to.
This application was made by Mrs B completing an application in a store. So because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation was made by AXA. So AXA didnt have to check if the policy 
was suitable for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs B enough information to 
make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her, taking into account her 
personal circumstances.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs B would have acted differently and not bought the policy, 
if better information had been provided. And on balance I dont think better information 
wouldve led her to act differently.
Mrs B has told us that she would have had 6 months sick pay if needed and some savings 
(although I cant be sure how much Mrs B held at the time of sale). The policy would have 
paid out in addition to any provisions Mrs B would receive. So based on what I do know, I 
think the PPI could have been useful to her in that her store card payments would be met. It 
also would have provided additional cover if Mrs B was unable to work. I also couldnt see 
any significant or limiting terms that would have affected Mrs Bs decision to take the policy 
out either.
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Mrs Bs decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Ive taken into account all of Mrs Bs comments, but for the reasons mentioned above, these 
points dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman