DRN-4289265
The complaint
Ms M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly declined to extend the term of her interest 
only mortgage. She asks that it extends the term and applies an interest rate product 
available in mid-2022.
What happened
Ms M has an interest only mortgage with Lloyds. The term is due to expire in 2026. In mid-
2022 Ms M asked Lloyds to extend the term. This would allow her to take out a five-year 
fixed rate product. And she says she cant repay the mortgage and her circumstances mean 
she cant sell the property and downsize.  
Our investigator said Lloyds applied its lending criteria correctly when it didnt agree to 
extend Ms Ms mortgage on interest only terms. He said while Lloyds didnt call Miss M back 
as agreed in mid-2022, it wasnt fair to require it to apply a product available at that time. 
Miss M didnt agree. She said it shouldnt have taken Lloyds over 12 months to say it 
wouldnt extend the mortgage term. She says she suffered financially as a result.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Ms M wants Lloyds to extend the term of her mortgage on an interest only basis to 2032. 
Ms M called Lloyds in August 2022. Lloyds told Ms M shed need a suitable repayment 
vehicle for it to extend the mortgage term on an interest only basis (which Ms M didnt have). 
Ms M asked about lifetime mortgages and Lloyds said shed need to take independent 
financial advice as this isnt something it offers. Lloyds said it couldnt extend the mortgage 
but could look into a new fixed rate product. Ms M ended the call as she had an 
appointment.
I think Lloyds gave Ms M a fair explanation of the situation at that time. I dont think its fair to 
say that it took Lloyds 12 months to tell Ms M that it wouldnt extend the term. And it said 
Ms M could still take out a new product. It seems Ms M was aware of this as she called 
Lloyds about taking out a new product in early September 2022.
Ms M spoke to Lloyds in early September 2022 about taking out a new fixed rate product. 
She could only take out a two-year product, as there was about four years left on the 
mortgage term.
The two-year product had a higher interest rate than Ms Ms tracker rate at that time. Ms M 
said she wanted to go ahead as she expected rates to rise. However, she didnt have time to 
complete the review with the mortgage adviser at that time and she declined the advisers 
offer to book her an appointment. The adviser told Ms M that she couldnt take out a product 
without talking to a mortgage adviser as her mortgage was on interest only terms. 
Ms M told Lloyds on several calls after this that she didnt want to speak to a mortgage 
adviser. Later in September 2022 Lloyds made an appointment for Ms M with a mortgage 
adviser. Lloyds says the mortgage adviser left a message for Ms M on 23 September 2022 
confirming the appointment, but it has no record of the appointment taking place. Ms M said 
in her complaint to Lloyds that shed had to cancel this appointment as she was going away. 
And she wanted Lloyds to apply the rate shed discussed with it in early September 2022. 
While Lloyds doesnt have a record of why the appointment didnt happen, given what Ms M 
said I think Ms M most likely cancelled the appointment.
Ms M made a complaint and following this Lloyds end of term team discussed Ms Ms 
options with her. It said moving onto repayment terms wasnt affordable and it couldnt 
extend on interest only terms as Ms M didnt have a repayment vehicle. I think it was fair for 
Lloyds to look more carefully into Ms Ms circumstances and her request to extend the term. 
While this inevitably meant the matter went on for longer, I dont think this means Lloyds 
treated her unfairly. 
Lloyds accepts some of its service was poor. It didnt call Ms M back in August 2022 when it 
said it would. Some of Ms Ms calls were cut off. Lloyds paid £200 compensation for this, 
which I think is fair. I dont think this caused Ms M financial loss. I think the reason Ms M 
didnt take out a new product in mid to late 2022 is because she didnt attend a meeting with 
a mortgage adviser and apply for a new product. I dont think Lloyds was responsible for 
that. Lloyds told Ms M in August 2022 (and a number of times after) that she could take out a 
new fixed rate product without her mortgage being extended. It told her shed need to talk to 
a mortgage adviser about this as her mortgage was on interest only terms. And it offered 
appointments to Ms M. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Lloyds to apply an 
interest rate product available in mid-2022 to Ms Ms mortgage, or pay further compensation.
Ms Ms mortgage term is due to expire in 2026. Ms M could consider taking independent 
financial advice to explore her options to repay the mortgage. It seems she owns other 
properties and has pension funds so she might have options other than to sell the property. 
Lloyds says she can talk to its end of term team again in future if shes not in a position to 
repay the mortgage, to see what her options are.
In the meantime, Ms M can still take out a new fixed rate product (although she should bear 
in mind a fixed rate product is likely to have an early repayment charge). She should contact 
Lloyds if she wants to discuss this with a mortgage adviser.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I think the compensation 
paid by Lloyds Bank PLC is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman