DRN-1193236
 
The complaint
Mr G has complained that Zenith Insurance plc recorded a claim as a fault claim in 2016 
against his car insurance policy.
 What happened
In 2016 Mr Gs van was unfortunately hit by a stolen car while parked. Zenith settled Mr Gs 
claim. It looked to recover its costs from the Motor Insurance Bureau as it wasnt able to from 
a third party insurer. But it was unsuccessful. 
Mr G discovered that the claim had been recorded as a fault claim on an external  central 
database. Most insurers have agreed to record information about customers claims history 
on this database to help prevent fraud. 
Mr G was very unhappy that the claim was recorded as a fault claim  as he wasnt at fault 
for the incident. 
Zenith explained that the word fault is used when recording claims where a full recovery of 
the costs from a third party couldnt be made. It sympathised with Mr G as it agreed he 
wasnt at fault for the incident. But it said it had correctly recorded the claim. 
Mr G remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought 
Zenith had recorded the claim in line with industry practice. So she didnt recommend Mr Gs 
complaint should be upheld. 
Mr G didnt agree. He said his premium didnt really change for the two years after the claim. 
But he noticed that when he bought a car, his premium went up considerably. Mr G said he 
paid to protect his No Claims Bonus (NCB). So he felt he was being unfairly penalised for 
something that wasnt his fault. And if the protection of NCB didnt protect his premium from 
increasing, then he believes his policy was mis-sold to him.
Mr G believes that because the claim was recorded as a fault claim hes been incorrectly 
charged a higher premium. He is concerned that this industry wide practice means he 
cannot get a fair deal. 
So Mr G would like an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at Mr Gs complaint, Ive taken into account industry practice, what the policy 
said and whether Mr G was treated fairly. I understand why Mr G feels so strongly about his complaint. The terminology used in the 
industry to record whether an insurer recovered the costs of a claim from a third party or not 
isnt something that we can make a decision about. The external database that they use to 
record and exchange information belongs to a third party company and doesnt fall under our 
jurisdiction. So we cannot ask it to change the wording it uses. 
I think it would be helpful if the wording used to record claims was either recovered or not 
recovered rather than non fault or fault. I can appreciate that where a customer clearly 
wasnt at fault for an incident  as in Mr Gs case here  the wording is at odds with what 
actually happened. So it can cause upset and frustration. 
However, its important to note that rather than the use of the word fault - it is what the 
industry recognises that word to mean when they look at a customers claims history that 
matters. 
I think Zenith recorded the claim to show it was unable to successfully recover Mr Gs claim 
costs from a third party. So it was recorded as a fault claim. But this is consistent with the 
industrys recognised terminology for this type of claim. Only where a full recovery of costs 
has been made can a claim be recorded as a non fault claim. In other words, if the wording 
changed from fault to non recovered the outcome for Mr G would be the same. So Im 
satisfied that Mr G has been treated fairly. Zenith has recorded the claim consistently with 
how any insurer would record a claim for a customer in the same circumstances as Mr G. 
Mr G protected his No Claims Bonus under his van insurance policy. He said he didnt notice 
a sharp change in his premium until a couple of years after the incident when he bought a 
car. 
There are a number of factors that affect the price of insurance. And insurers charge a 
different premium based on the risk they are comfortable taking on. We know this because 
whenever we use a comparison website using the same details to look for quotes, there is a 
wide range in the price offered across the market for the same level of cover. This is a 
commercial decision each business is entitled to make. 
Changing a vehicle can make a significant difference to the premium a customer pays for 
insurance.  From what Mr G has said, it seems that the impact of the claim was minimal until 
he changed his vehicle a couple of years later. This suggests that it was this change that 
affected his premium, rather than the incident. Protecting our NCB doesnt protect the 
premium if a claim is made  but it protects the reduction a customers NCB can fall by in 
years if a claim is made. The more years NCB a customer has, generally the cheaper their 
premium is as a lower risk driver. 
I understand Mr Gs upset at the use of the word fault to record the claim. But Im satisfied 
that he was treated fairly. And I think Zenith correctly recorded the claim. So this means Im 
not upholding his complaint. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman