DRN-4277370
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited turned down a claim she made on 
her legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs S has legal expenses insurance as part of her motor insurance policy. RSA is the 
insurer of the legal expenses policy. Last year Mrs S bought a used car from a dealership 
which developed a problem in January of this year. She wasnt able to resolve matters with 
the dealership and sought assistance from her legal expenses policy to pursue a breach of 
contract claim. 
After carrying out an initial assessment of the claim RSA referred it to panel solicitors for an 
assessment of whether it had reasonable prospects of success (a requirement of the policy). 
The panel solicitors advised it didnt. Mrs S provided detailed comments on what the panel 
solicitor had said. RSA referred the matter back to the solicitor and he explained why his 
opinion remained unchanged. So RSA said it wouldnt be providing cover for her claim. 
Our investigator thought the assessment from the panel solicitor was properly written and 
reasoned and from someone qualified to give it. And he thought it was one RSA were 
entitled to rely on. He didnt think it acted unfairly in turning down Mrs Ss claim. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She said the legal assessment hadnt been carried out properly and RSA 
should have done more to investigate the concerns she raised about this. And she wasnt in 
a position to fund an alternative legal opinion of her own. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mrs Ss policy. Its a condition of cover that 
we have assessed your claim and deem it to have prospects of success. And the policy 
defines prospects of success as at least a 51% chance of you achieving a favourable 
outcome.
As an insurer isnt a legal expert we dont think its in a position to carry out that assessment 
and it should be carried out by a suitably qualified lawyer who has relevant experience. 
Where that has been done we think its reasonable for an insurer to rely on a properly written 
and reasoned legal opinion when deciding whether a claim has prospects of success or not. 
In this case RSA did refer the matter to one of its panel firms for assessment. I can see that 
assessment was carried out by a qualified lawyer whose area of practice includes consumer 
law. Ive read the assessment and I think it is properly written and reasoned; it addresses the 
claim made by Mrs S and gives reasons for why its unlikely to succeed. 
I appreciate Mrs S disagrees with that assessment but I dont think there was any reason 
why RSA shouldnt have relied on it when concluding the policy terms as they relate to 
prospects of success hadnt been met. I also think it was right RSA then advised Mrs S of 
her next steps including that she could get an alternative legal opinion of her own. 
I understand Mrs S wasnt in a position to do that but she did provide detailed comments on 
the legal opinion. I think it was right RSA referred those comments back to the panel solicitor 
to see if they made a difference to his thinking. He provided a response in which he 
explained why they didnt. RSA provided details of that response to Mrs S. And in the 
absence of a contrary legal opinion there isnt more Id then have expected RSA to do. I 
appreciate Mrs S was very disappointed at having her claim turned down but I think RSA 
acted in line with the policy terms and treated her fairly in doing so. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman