DRN-3234138
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, SA hasnt fully settled a medical expenses claim they made on their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out an annual travel insurance policy on 2 April 2019, through a broker. 
Cover under the policy began on 15 April 2019. Mr and Mrs R flew abroad in September 
2019.
While they were away, Mrs R began to suffer from a lump on her arm and felt unwell. She 
saw a local doctor who was concerned that she might be suffering from a serious illness. 
They suggested Mrs R should attend a hospital Ill call L. The hospital admitted Mrs R on 11 
October 2019. 
Mr R made a claim online for Mrs Rs medical expenses. He hadnt had a response from 
Mapfre by the time she was discharged on 14 October 2019, with a final diagnosis of 
haematoma. So Mr R settled Mrs Rs medical expenses of around £2300 and provided 
evidence in support of the claim. While they waited for Mapfre to assess the claim, Mr and 
Mrs R also paid an additional premium to Mapfre to extend their policy beyond the trip length 
limit so that they could remain abroad and make-up for the time theyd lost due to Mrs Rs 
illness.
Mapfre accepted Mr and Mrs Rs claim and partially settled it. It initially paid them £174.75 
and went on to pay an additional £743.08, together with hospital benefit for the three days of 
Mrs Ls admission. However, it didnt agree to settle the medical expenses claim in full. It 
said that the policy terms required a policyholder to call its medical assistance team for 
authorisation before incurring inpatient expenses. But Mr R hadnt done so. Mapfre said that 
L was on a list of hospitals it didnt work with, due to financial and treatment concerns. And it 
said that if Mr and Mrs R had called its assistance team prior to being admitted to L, it 
wouldve told Mrs R to go to another hospital. 
Mapfres medical team reviewed the medical evidence which had been provided and it 
agreed to pay the costs of the treatment Mrs R had received which the team deemed 
necessary. But it didnt agree to pay the remainder of Mrs Rs medical expenses. However, 
Mapfre did acknowledge that it hadnt handled Mr and Mrs Rs claim as well as it couldve 
done and so it paid them £150 compensation to recognise its errors.
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with the settlement Mapfre had paid and they asked us to look 
into their complaint. In particular, they felt that Mapfres website was misleading, as it 
suggested that claims could be made online, which was at odds with the policy wording. Mr 
R didnt think Mapfre had made it clear that the medical assistance team would need to be 
contacted in cases such as this.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think that Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should be upheld. She 
felt the policy terms made it sufficiently clear that a policyholder needed to call Mapfres 
assistance team in the event of illness which might lead to inpatient treatment. And she was 
satisfied that the policy only covered necessary medical expenses. She considered Mapfre 
had provided enough evidence to show why its medical team had concluded that some of 
the treatment Mrs R had received hadnt been medically necessary and therefore, wasnt 
covered by the terms of the policy. So she didnt think Mapfre needed to pay anything more.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed. They said they hadnt expected to be directed to hospital by the 
doctor and that theyd considered Mrs Rs situation to be an emergency from that point on. 
They didnt agree that it was clear that they needed to call Mapfre before incurring medical 
expenses  they maintained that itd been appropriate to contact Mapfre by email. They 
didnt feel itd been fair for Mapfre to conclude that Mrs R hadnt needed to be admitted  
given it had also acknowledged that her normal blood test results hadnt been reviewed until 
the date shed been discharged. They didnt think Mapfre had treated them fairly throughout 
the claims process. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R, I think Mapfre has settled their 
claim fairly and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs R that while Ive summarised the background to their 
complaint and their detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent 
us. I dont doubt what a worrying time Mrs Rs hospitalisation mustve been for them and I 
sympathise with their position. In making my decision though, I havent commented on each 
and every point theyve made and nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on 
what I consider to be the key issues.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy and the available evidence to decide whether 
Mapfre treated them fairly.
Did the policy terms make it clear that Mr and Mrs R needed to call the medical assistance 
line?
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R say they chose to make a claim online rather than calling the 
number given on Mapfres website. They say the website didnt say they had to call. I note 
too that Mr and Mrs R have also mentioned that they were concerned about the potentially 
prohibitive costs of calls from the country they were staying in to the medical assistance 
team. I can understand why Mr and Mrs R preferred to communicate online and reduce their 
potential costs. And I acknowledge that Mapfres website did set out means by which 
policyholders can make online claims.
However, I also need to bear in mind the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Rs policy, as 
these form the basis of their contract with Mapfre. In my view, its reasonable for Mapfre to 
rely on the contract when assessing the claim. It also seems clear that Mapfre did provide Mr 
and Mrs R with a telephone number to call and gave them a choice as to how to make a 
claim. Mr R did give consideration to calling and chose instead to make the claim online. 
This means I dont think he was misled into deciding against contacting the assistance team. Ive gone on to carefully consider the relevant sections of the policy.
The front cover page of the policy sets out an Important Notice. This says:
If You or any person who is travelling has a pre-existing Medical Condition then You must 
declare that condition to Health Check. Please do not Curtail any Trip or incur inpatient 
medical expenses without first contacting MAPFRE Assistance 
Page 12 of the policy lists a section called Emergency and Medical Service. This sets out 
the following:
In the event of Your Bodily Injury or Illness which may lead to in-patient hospital treatment or 
before any arrangements are made for repatriation or in the event of Curtailment 
necessitating Your early return to Your Home Area You must contact the Emergency 
Assistance Service. The service is available to You and operates 24 hours a day, 365
days a year for advice, assistance, making arrangements for hospital admission, repatriation 
and authorisation of medical expenses. If this is not possible because the condition requires 
immediate emergency treatment You must contact the Emergency Assistance Service as 
soon as possible.
The Emergency Assistance Service has the medical expertise, contacts and facilities to help 
should You be injured in an accident or fall ill.
If You are admitted to a hospital/clinic while abroad, the Emergency Assistance Service will 
arrange for medical expenses covered by the policy to be paid direct to the hospital/clinic. To 
take advantage of this benefit someone must contact the Emergency Assistance Service for 
You as soon as possible..
Section B  Emergency Medical and Other Expenses is set out on page 13. This section 
includes Special Conditions Relating to Claims. One of these conditions states:
You must give notice immediately to the Emergency Assistance Service of any Bodily Injury 
or illness which necessitates Your admittance to hospital as an in patient
Mr and Mrs R say that the important notice set out on the front cover of the policy suggests 
that it only applies to policyholders who are hospitalised and who already have a pre-existing 
medical condition. I note that the relevant part of the important notice is emboldened, which 
makes me think it was intended to be read as a distinct and separate clause. Even I were to 
accept that this notice couldve been set out more clearly though, that wouldnt lead me to 
find that the overall information Mapfre gave Mr and Mrs R was misleading. Thats because 
Im satisfied that the totality of the information set out in the insurance contract makes it 
sufficiently clear that policyholders need to contact the medical assistance team if they 
become ill and are admitted to hospital as an inpatient. Id add too that terms requiring 
policyholders to call a medical assistance team before incurring inpatient expenses in 
circumstances such as these are standard across travel insurance policies. 
So I find then that Mapfre acted fairly when it concluded that Mr and Mrs R didnt fulfil the 
policy requirement to call its assistance team either when Mrs R was first experiencing 
symptoms or at the point the doctor directed her to go to hospital. 
Was it fair for Mapfre to limit the settlement it paid?
As Mr and Mrs R didnt call the assistance team before Mrs R was admitted to L, Mapfre 
didnt have the opportunity to offer Mr and Mrs R guidance on its approved list of hospitals or 
for its medical team to review the proposed treatment costs and authorise them. Mapfre says that had Mr and Mrs R called up, it wouldve advised them that L was on a list of hospitals it 
didnt use due to concerns about costs and unnecessary patient treatments. Based on what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mapfre wouldve advised Mr and Mrs R against using L. So I do 
think that Mr and Mrs Rs failure to call the assistance team has prejudiced Mapfres 
position.
The medical expenses section of the policy sets out what Mapfre will cover. It says:
We will pay You, up to the amount shown in the Policy Schedule, for the following expenses 
which are necessarily incurred as a result of You suffering unforeseen Bodily Injury, illness, 
disease and/or compulsory quarantine or complications as a direct result of pregnancy:
1. Emergency medical, surgical, hospital ambulance and nursing fees and charges 
incurred outside of Your Home Area.
This section of the policy also sets out a list of specific things that Mapfre doesnt cover. This 
includes the following:
The cost of treatment or surgery, including exploratory tests, which are not directly related to
the Bodily Injury or illness which necessitated Your admittance into hospital.
Any expenses which are not usual, reasonable or customary to treat Your Bodily Injury or 
illness.
I think the policy makes it clear then that Mapfre will only cover medical expenses which are 
usual, reasonable or customary to treat a policyholders illness. Mapfre concluded that many 
of the treatments Mrs R received werent reasonable, necessary or customary and so it 
excluded these from cover. So Ive considered the available medical evidence to decide 
whether this was a fair conclusion for Mapfre to draw.
Ls report says that Mrs R was diagnosed with a haematoma. Mapfres medical team 
reviewed the treatment Mrs R was given and concluded that the following costs were 
reasonable and necessary: first examination; a surgeons examination; injection; blood tests; 
an ultrasound scan; an x-ray and medication. As the investigator explained, Mapfres 
medical team later reviewed the hospital bill again and explained why certain costs werent 
covered. Mapfres Chief Medical Officer (CMO) told us that hospital admission wouldnt have 
been medically necessary, as Mrs Rs initial blood tests had been normal. (It seems Mrs R 
had follow-up blood tests on the date of discharge, rather than there having been any delay 
in reviewing the initial tests). He also explained that intravenous medications shed received 
had been unnecessary. Thats because two treatments were for patients who couldnt drink 
 in Mrs Rs case, there was no evidence she hadnt been able to do so. One of the 
medications was a painkiller which shouldnt have been prescribed for someone with a 
haematoma. And the other was an antibiotic, when there was no evidence that Mrs R had 
had an infection.
Ive thought very carefully about all of the evidence. I do accept that Mr and Mrs R arent 
medically trained and relied on what Ls treating doctors told them. But I find the comments 
provided by Mapfres medically trained CMO persuasive evidence of what Mapfre wouldve 
considered to be necessary and reasonable treatments for the condition Mrs R was 
diagnosed with. And that therefore its these costs which its likely to have authorised had Mr 
and Mrs R called the medical assistance line. Im also satisfied that Mapfres CMO has 
provided clear evidence to show why the treatments Ive mentioned above wouldnt have 
been authorised and also why Mapfre wouldnt have agreed that Mrs R needed to be 
admitted to hospital. On that basis then, I think its most likely that had Mr and Mrs R called the assistance line, 
they wouldve been advised not to go to L. And that any assessment and treatment costs 
Mapfre agreed to authorise wouldve been limited to the costs its already settled. So I find it 
was fair for Mapfre to turn down those medical expenses which it didnt consider to be 
necessary, reasonable or customary to treat Mrs Rs condition. This means I dont think it 
needs to pay Mr and Mrs R anything more and Ive decided Mapfre has settled the claim 
fairly.
Mapfre accepts that it didnt handle the claim as well as it couldve done. It initially turned 
down the claim incorrectly and when it first offered settlement, it didnt request a full medical 
team review of the costs. This meant that the first settlement was significantly lower than it 
shouldve been. So I think it was appropriate for Mapfre to recognise these failings and the 
impact these had on Mr and Mrs R. Its already paid Mr and Mrs R £150 compensation to put 
these errors right and in the circumstances, I think this was a fair and reasonable amount to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience these errors caused Mr and Mrs R.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Rs position, as I appreciate theyve been left 
out of pocket, Im not directing Mapfre to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman