DRN-2044166
Complaint 
Ms L complains that Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, lent irresponsibly to her. 
Background
Between July and October 2019, Ms L borrowed two loans from Cashfloat. The lending 
history is set out below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As set out above, I understand there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 2. 
Initially, our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Ms L disagreed with that 
view, saying that it should have been clear to Cashfloat that she was having trouble 
managing her money. 
So another of our adjudicators considered the matter. Upon considering further information 
provided by Cashfloat, he thought the complaint should be upheld in full. This time, 
Cashfloat disagreed with our adjudicator. It said that although Ms Ls expenditure was high, 
her income was also higher than average and so the loans would have been affordable. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms L 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 20/07/2019 05/09/2019 2 £200.00
2 21/10/2019 Outstanding 3 £450.00I can see that in this case, Cashfloat established and verified Ms Ls income and made 
enquiries about her expenditure. I can see that it undertook a fairly comprehensive check in 
which it established up to date information about Ms Ls outstanding debts from a credit 
reference agency. So I would expect Cashfloat to take account of the information it had 
received before it decided whether to lend Ms L any money. 
Turning first to the decision to agree loan 1, I can see that Cashfloat verified Ms Ls income 
and that it exceeded £3,000 per month. She declared her monthly expenditure to be just 
over £1,500 per month, to include £750 towards her credit commitments. However, when it 
considered the information it had obtained from the credit check, Cashfloat should have 
realised that Ms Ls monthly credit expenditure was actually somewhat more than £2,000 per 
month. And I think the disparity in that information should have caused Cashfloat to ask 
more questions about the nature of Ms Ls indebtedness and to conduct a further review of 
her financial circumstances. 
The position in respect of loan 2 was similar. I can see that by this point, Ms L said that her 
net income exceeded £4,000 per month and her declared expenditure appeared to have 
decreased. She told Cashfloat that her credit commitments were £750 per month, but again, 
the credit check indicated that she was repaying significantly more than that every month. 
Again, I think it should have asked more questions about her financial position. 
Had those additional checks been undertaken, I think Cashfloat would have realised that Ms 
L was reliant on high-cost short-term borrowing. From a brief look at her circumstances, I 
can see that Ms L was indebted to at least eight other short-term lenders at the same time. I 
think Cashfloat should have realised that Ms L was not borrowing to cover a temporary 
shortfall in her income, but to meet an ongoing need. It seems likely to me that Ms L was 
borrowing from Cashfloat to cover a hole that her other debts had left in her finances. 
With all of the above in mind, I dont think Cashfloat could have reasonably concluded that 
Ms Ls repayments were sustainably affordable. And I dont think it should have agreed to 
either loan. So, Im satisfied that Cashfloat will need to take action to put things right for Ms 
L. 
Putting things right 
As I said above, it appears there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 2. 
If that is the case and Cashfloat sold the outstanding debt to a third party, it must buy it back 
if it can and then follow the steps set out below. If it cannot buy the debt back, it must liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below. 
a) Cashfloat must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 2, and treat 
any repayments made by Ms L as though they had been repayments of the principal on this 
loan. If this results in Ms L having made overpayments then Cashfloat must refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated and paid on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
b) However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Cashfloat should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Ms L. It must not pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal it has already written-off. If Cashfloat and Ms L do agree a repayment plan, I remind 
Cashfloat of its obligation to treat Ms L fairly.
c) Cashfloat must remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ls credit file in relation 
to loan 2. * HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Ms L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
My final decision 
I uphold this complaint and require Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat, to put things 
right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman