DRN-2953100
The complaint
Mr B complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr B was given a loan by TFS as follows: 
Date Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAPR
September 
2016£5,000 60
months£195.46 48.9%
After Mr B wasnt able to maintain the loan monthly repayments the loan defaulted in 
October 2019 with a default balance of £6,295 shown as outstanding.  
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs complaint. He didnt think that TFS 
shouldve provided the loan to Mr B and he set out the steps that TFS needed to take 
to put things right. 
TFS disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It mainly said (Im summarising here) that:
purpose of this loan was for a new van, which was essential for Mr Bs employment
it was unfair to decline a loan for a genuine purpose because the customer had 
previously applied for credit and the impact on Mr B wouldve been far greater had 
TFS not provided the loan
TFS carried out sufficient checks to verify income and expenditure
looking at the evidence provided together with the information gathered TFS made a 
fair lending decision and an assumption that cash withdrawals are for gambling 
cannot be verified
the loan would be used to pay another high cost loan so this wouldnt add to Mr Bs 
overall debt.
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When Mr B applied for the loan, TFS asked about his income. After looking at his bank 
statements TFS recorded Mr Bs income as approximately £1,533 a month. It asked Mr B 
about his regular expenditure and after also doing its own credit checks and allowing for his 
spending on credit commitments it thought he might still be paying, TFS worked out that 
Mr B should have around £167 in disposable income after paying his TFS loan. 
TFS said its affordability checks were adequate and proportionate and based on the 
information gathered at the time of the application, the loan was affordable. 
But I dont think TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr B based on the 
information it had gathered. I dont think TFS thought carefully enough about what the information it had gathered showed about Mr Bs overall financial situation  and the 
likelihood of him being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner. 
TFS was aware that Mr B had declared his take home pay was £1,200 and when he earned 
over this amount it was due to him working overtime. In reliance on the bank statements he 
provided TFS felt it could safely assume his expected take home pay would be more than 
the amount Mr B had declared. But I agree with our investigator that it wasnt reasonable to 
make that assumption based only on the limited information TFS saw, given that Mr B had 
explained why his earnings could fluctuate and bearing in mind that he had no guaranteed 
overtime pay.
I think it was unreasonable for TFS to base its affordability assessment on the assumption 
that Mr B was guaranteed to earn at least £1,533 each month. And had TFS done its income 
and expenditure calculations using Mr Bs declared income figure, this would have 
completely wiped out the disposable income of £167 that resulted from the way TFS worked 
out affordability. So I think TFS should have realised that it was unlikely that Mr B was going 
to be able to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way and not provided the loan.
As well as this, despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr B had spare 
cash each month, I think TFS shouldve realised that it couldnt rely on this information in any 
event because what Mr B had declared was significantly at odds with what it saw on its 
credit checks and in the bank statements it acquired from Mr B. 
Mr B didnt appear to have an excessive amount of credit shown on the credit checks TFS 
carried out. But it was aware that Mr B had taken out a £2,500 unsecured guarantor loan just 
a couple of months before. And he had made five searches during the six months running up 
to him taking out this loan, showing that he was actively seeking credit from various sources. 
TFS will already be aware that different credit searches can show different results  so 
I think it wouldve understood that its own credit checks didnt necessarily show Mr Bs whole 
credit record. And I think that was borne by what TFS could also see on Mr Bs bank 
statements which showed that he seemed to have taken out and was paying for credit that 
didnt appear on its credit checks and Mr B hadnt mentioned. 
Bearing in mind that TFS couldve seen on the bank statements it acquired that Mr B also 
had a returned direct debit payment on 30 August 2016 when a payment he sent to another 
high cost loan provider failed, I think TFS saw enough to make it realise, as a responsible 
lender, that Mr B was already struggling to manage his debt  and there was nothing to 
indicate that his financial situation would be significantly improved by taking out this loan with 
TFS. So I dont think I can reasonably say that it made a fair lending decision based on the 
information in front of it. 
At the very least, and even if the confidence TFS had in Mr B being able to boost his 
earnings with regular overtime pay was justified, I think it needed to do more in-depth checks 
before reaching a properly informed decision on whether this loan would be sustainably 
affordable for Mr B. 
Had it done more and better checking, I think it likely that TFS wouldve seen nothing to 
reassure it that it was fair to provide this loan to Mr B. 
Although I can see in its notes that TFS was aware that Mr B had a payday loan, and it 
allowed for the fact he might still be making monthly repayments on that loan after taking out 
the TFS loan, he also borrowed a £100 loan from another short term lender just the month 
before applying to TFS for this loan. I can appreciate that on its own, that wouldnt have been particularly concerning. But I can 
see from a credit report Mr B has sent me that in fact he had an established pattern of 
borrowing and repaying short term loans  effectively he was routinely borrowing to repay a 
previous loan. Our investigator mentioned in his view that from February  August 2016 Mr B 
took out nine loans and the majority were payday loans. And I think this is information that 
TFS shouldve found out had it done a proportionate check before providing this loan. 
This leads me to conclude that had TFS done a proportionate check this wouldve revealed 
further reasons why the loan was likely to be unsustainable and why TFS shouldnt have 
provided it. 
I've taken into account that Mr B told TFS he intended to use this loan partly to pay his other 
guarantor loan. But TFS didnt have control over whether it would in fact be used for that 
purpose  and I am aware that this didnt happen (which I think Mr Bs credit history 
suggested was reasonably foreseeable). 
Also, I think the scale of his debts, bearing in mind that not all the loan was ever intended for 
debt consolidation, and the extent of his evident money problems and apparent reliance on 
short-term loans and high cost credit, would suggest that Mr B would remain in serious 
financial trouble regardless. 
Overall, I dont think TFS did enough to be reasonably satisfied that providing this loan 
to Mr B wouldnt put him in a worse position by increasing his overall debts and adding 
to his money problems. I dont think TFS assessed affordability in a way that was fair 
and reasonable or that if TFS had done a proportionate check it would have seen 
anything to support its view that this was a fair lending decision. So I dont think TFS 
shouldve provided this loan. 
As Mr B has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on a loan 
that he shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of 
what TFS did wrong. So, I think TFS needs to put things right.
Putting things right
I havent seen anything which makes me think TFS acted unfairly towards Mr B in any other 
way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. 
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr B to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid extra for a loan that should not 
have been provided to him. In line with this Services approach, Mr B shouldnt repay more 
than the capital amount he borrowed. 
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr B received as a result of being given the 
loan. The payments Mr B made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr B having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr B bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions. TFS should not pursue any 
outstanding balances made up of principal already written-off
remove any adverse information placed on Mr Bs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman