DRN-2894021
The complaint
Miss B makes a number of complaints about Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) following her 
account switch.
What happened
Miss B says she switched her account to BoS but it didnt take a record of her signature. She 
says a cheque payment was cancelled as a result which caused her inconvenience and 
embarrassment. Miss B says BoS then authorised the payment out of her account without 
her permission. She says BoS then lost her signature mandate form. Miss B would like 
further compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and says she has been 
caused sleepless night due to the worry.
BoS accepts it made mistakes and has apologised. It has paid £250 for the cheque mistake 
and a further £125 for the lost signature mandate form. BoS says the form was lost internally 
and says it now has Miss Bs signature.
Miss B brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought the compensation paid was 
appropriate.
Miss B doesnt accept that view and in summary says the mistake could have led to 
problems paying her mortgage and could have affected her credit score. She says the 
compensation should be in the thousands not hundreds, and this has affected her mental 
health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that BoS has paid a fair and reasonable 
compensation amount. I appreciate Miss B will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that BoS made a series of mistakes. There is no need for me to 
repeat them as they are well known to the parties. I accept Miss B would have been 
concerned about what took place and caused embarrassment by the cheque not being 
authorised. I also accept Miss B was caused further inconvenience as a result of the 
payment then being authorised and by the loss of the signature mandate form.
The key issue here is the level of compensation. And having considered this complaint, Im 
satisfied BoS has paid a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £375. I dont think 
Miss B suffered any financial loss as a result of the mistakes and I have to consider the 
actual impact rather than what may have taken place. I accept Miss B would have been 
caused concern at the time, but Im satisfied that BoS has now corrected matters.
Overall, Im satisfied BoS has paid an appropriate compensation amount and has fairly 
apologised for what too place. We are not BoSs regulator and so its not our role to punish it 
for what took place.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman