DRN-1770356
 
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the decision by Ageas Insurance Limited following a claim for storm 
damage on her home insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs W held a home insurance policy with Ageas. The policy terms explained the policy 
would cover storm damage. Storm damage was defined as:
We consider storm to be strong winds of 48 knots/55mph or more, sometimes accompanied 
by rain, hail or snow. Heavy or persistent rain or snow alone does not constitute storm 
unless the rain or snow is extreme that damage is caused to well maintained properties or 
adequately designed construction. Extreme rain or snow is:- 25mm/1 inch or more of rain 
over a 1 hour period, or a proportionate amount over a shorter time; and - 30cm/12 inches or 
more of snow within a 24 hour period (or less)
The policy exclusion for storm damage also said it would not cover Loss or damage that 
happens gradually over a period of time; or that does not arise from one identifiable event 
which directly and immediately caused the loss or damage.
In August 2019 Mrs W contacted Ageas to make a claim on her policy. The call handler 
explained that from what Mrs W had described, the cause of damage was unclear, so Ageas 
wouldnt be able to confirm cover by the policy. Mrs W was asked to provide confirmation of 
the cause of the damage so that Ageas could confirm whether the damage was covered.
Mrs W arranged for a tradesman to inspect the damage, and provide a report. The report 
found that:
We inspected the above property and found penetrating damp present caused by the 
kitchen being lower than ground level.Dry rot is present in a section of the wooden 
doorframeRemove section of kitchen floor due to rising damp 1m away from wall 
Remove section of bathroom floor due to rising damp 1m away from wall. 
Mrs W sent a copy of this report to Ageas. Ageas contacted the tradesman who had 
inspected Mrs Ws property. The call note recorded He confirmed damage has been caused 
by no damp proof course due to age of property and the fact that property is below ground 
level therefore rain water is running towards the property and due to lack of dpc [damp proof 
course] it can no longer withstand it gradually happened over time, getting worse with 
recent bad weather
Ageas contacted Mrs W, and arranged a Sightcall to view the damage. This involved Ageas 
viewing the damage via a video livestream using Mrs Ws phone. This process also allowed 
Ageas to take photos of the damage complained of. The photos showed Damage to 
flooring in both kitchen and bathroom, paint coming off kitchen walls, mould in both kitchen 
and bathroom and bubbling of bathroom walls Ageas issued a final response to Mrs Ws complaint on 16 October saying they wouldnt be able to cover the claim because of the 
findings of their investigation. 
Mrs W was unhappy with this decision, and asked this service to consider her complaint. 
The investigator found that Ageas had acted fairly in declining Mrs Ws claim. Mrs W 
disagreed with these findings, askng for the complaint to be escalated. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I dont think Ageas need to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs W but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Theres no dispute that the weather conditions for the period Mrs W made her claim, didnt 
meet the policy definition of storm damage. Ageas also considered the overall circumstances 
of Mrs Ws claim before reaching a decision to decline the claim in the final response letter. 
Ive considered Mrs Ws comments, the tradesmans report, Ageas investigation of the 
claim, and the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws insurance policy, when determining whether 
Ageass decision on Mrs Ws claim was fair.
When Mrs W reported her claim, the cause of the damage was unclear. Mrs W was asked to 
provide more information about this. Mrs W instructed a tradesman, and provided this report 
to Ageas. At the time of inspection, the tradesman found evidence of penetrating damp and 
dry rot. As part of Ageas investigation they contacted the tradesman to discuss this report. I 
think contacting the tradesman to discuss this was a reasonable action to take. 
Ive listened to the call with the tradesman. During this call he explained that the property is 
under the rod, the rod runs above the rooftop, in honesty, they wouldnt have had a DPC 
[damp proof course] or anything like that, or any solution that way, the age of the property is 
too old for it to have anything like thatnow and again the problem has started to come into 
the property, so its over the years it started to work its way in.
Having considered these comments, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to take the view that 
the damage was more likely than not caused by water that had come into the property over 
time. Mrs W has informed this service it has had a damp proof course. I spoke to the 
builder who done and it he said there was one. Mrs W was provided with the opportunity to 
provide evidence of this work being done. As this hasnt been provided, Ive based my 
decision on the evidence available. Although I appreciate Mrs W feels strongly that her 
property did benefit from damp proof course, the evidence Ive seen doesnt support this. 
Ageas also arranged to inspect the damage themselves via a video link. These images 
highlighted the issues raised by the tradesman. Patches of damp and rot were evident 
across the damaged area. Mrs W feels strongly that this damage was caused by the storm, 
and so Ageas should pay for the cost of these repairs. But having considered the actions 
taken by Ageas to investigate Mrs Ws concerns, I think their decision to decline the claim 
was fair.  
Mrs W told this service that Its a lot of money it hasnt happened since, it only happened 
when next door got flooded. The tradesmans report, and the images taken, indicate that there was damp and rot affecting the damaged area. The insurance policy excludes Loss or 
damage that happens gradually over a period of time; or that does not arise from one 
identifiable event which directly and immediately caused the loss or damage. In order for 
Ageas to accept Mrs Ws claim, the main cause of the damage to the property would need to 
have been the storm itself, rather than any other issues with the property.  
But when considering the damage, I dont think there is enough evidence to support that the 
main cause of the damp and rot away was the storm. I think there is enough evidence to 
support Ageass position that this damage is likely to have occurred over a period of time 
because of the type of materials used in the construction of the kitchen, as opposed to being 
caused by the storm itself. 
I am empathetic to Mrs Ws circumstances. But based on the evidence I think that on 
balance Ageass decision not to pay the claim was fair, as there wasnt enough evidence to 
say that the main cause of the damage to the kitchen wall and surrounding area was the 
stormy weather. Because of this, I wont be asking Ageas to do anything in settlement of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman