DRN-2158991
The complaint
Mr O complains about the way Nationwide Building Society treated him when he queried an 
overseas payment hed made.   
What happened
In April 2020 Mr O made a payment of €7,500 to a friend hed met online. Hed been told that 
a friends family member needed the money to pay for urgent medical treatment.
Mr O was however contacted by the friend who said the money hadnt been received. Mr O 
contacted Nationwide to find out what had happened. He called the building society on 
several occasions over the following weeks and, he says, received conflicting information. 
For example, he was told that action would be taken to retrieve the payment, and that it 
hadnt; he was told the payment had been made correctly, and that it hadnt; and he was 
given conflicting timeframes for the completion of the investigation. This service has received 
recordings of those conversations. 
Mr O complained about the way the matter had been handled and Nationwide looked into it. 
It accepted that it hadnt handled things as well as it could have done and offered Mr O £100 
in recognition of that. 
Mr O didnt accept Nationwides offer, which he said didnt recognise the distress hed 
suffered. He referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. 
Having done so, she thought that Nationwides offer was a little low and recommended that it 
be increased to £200. Mr O still didnt think this went far enough, however, and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator set out in some detail the contents of Mr Os telephone calls with 
Nationwide. Because of that, I dont need to repeat here what was said. I have however 
considered very carefully the content of those calls. 
I note as well that Mr O was told by the intended recipient of the funds that they hadnt been 
received. Its possible of course that they had in fact been received after all; if so, that would 
have made it more difficult for Nationwide to find out exactly what happened. The money 
was however returned to Mr Os account, so I dont need to comment any further on that 
issue. 
Mr O has also complained that Nationwide closed his account and that it called the police 
when he visited the branch. Those matters are, however, the subject of a separate 
complaint, so again it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment further on them. 
The issue that I must consider, therefore, is what is a fair level of compensation for what 
Nationwide has acknowledged was unsatisfactory handling of Mr Os concerns about the 
payment. In my view, the payment of £200 in total recommended by the investigator is a fair 
settlement.         
Putting things right
Nationwide has already offered £100 to settle Mr Os complained, and his not objected to the 
investigators recommendation. I shall however make a formal award, so that Mr O can 
enforce it should he need to do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Os complaint in full, Nationwide Building 
Society should, to the extent it hasnt already done so, pay Mr O £200.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman