DRN-3442170
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint is about their Aviva Insurance Limited legal expenses insurance 
policy.
They say the policy was mis-sold.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out legal expenses insurance with Aviva in 2014. The policy renewed 
every year. In 2019 Mr and Mrs R made a claim on their legal expenses insurance policy for 
cover to defend a claim against them in trespass.
The claim arose out of some work they employed a builder to do which involved replacing 
the boundary fence. In doing so Mr and Mrs R said the builder placed the fence closer to 
their property rather than in its original position on the boundary line. When they wanted to 
reinstate the boundary to its previous position their neighbours objected and threatened 
proceedings.
Aviva appointed a panel firm (Firm A) to consider the merits of Mr and Mrs Rs claim in 
accordance with the policy terms. But shortly after Firm A was appointed Mrs R complained 
to Aviva that the person with conduct of the matter  a Paralegal- wasnt suitably qualified to 
consider her claim. She also said he refused to look at all the evidence available which led to 
funding being refused on the basis that it didnt have the requisite prospects of success. 
Instead she asked Aviva to appoint another solicitor to assess the claim. Aviva consented to 
this request and appointed another panel firm (Firm B) to assess the claim
Mr and Mrs R have raised a separate complaint about the handling of those claims by Aviva 
which Ive considered and determined in a separate decision. The subject of this complaint 
concerns a mis-sale of the legal expenses insurance policy. In particular, Mr and Mrs R are 
unhappy about two specific issues:
1. That the policy allows a Paralegal to be appointed by a panel firm to assess their 
claims;
2. That their policy hasnt provided them with £100,000 of cover in respect of their costs 
as it purports to do.
In consequence Mr and Mrs R say the policy was mis-sold to them. 
Our investigator considered their complaint. He said he didnt think that Mr and Mrs R would 
have decided not to take out the policy had they known the panel firm appointed by Aviva 
were entitled to allow a Paralegal to assess their claim and that the policy wouldnt 
necessarily provide £100,000 in cover for each claim. As such he concluded that Aviva did 
nothing wrong.
Mr and Mrs R dont agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2013 Mr and Mrs R took out their legal expenses insurance cover by phone, which they 
renewed each year. In 2019 the policy renewal was offered by post with an invitation for Mr 
and Mrs R to review the details of the renewal, including the policy terms, online. From the 
documents Aviva have provided the policy was offered on a non-advised basis.  That means 
Aviva needed to provide Mr and Mrs R with enough information to allow them to decide 
whether the insurance was suitable for their needs and circumstances.
The term of insurance that Mrs R is unhappy about concerns the definition of the word 
lawyer as set out by the policy. Essentially the policy says The lawyer will assess your 
case to determine your chances of winning and If you have sufficient chances of winning  
your case, the lawyer will progress it. 
Lawyer is defined as A suitably experienced legal professional.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R might not have expected that a Paralegal could be a suitably 
experienced legal professional when taking out the policy. For the avoidance of doubt we 
wouldnt consider there was anything wrong with a Paralegal assessing their legal claims as 
long as they were working under the supervision of a suitably qualified legal professional 
with experience in the relevant area of law they were considering. And that is what 
happened in the claim Mr and Mrs R made. The Paralegals opinion was checked by an 
experienced Supervisor with suitable experience and a Partner who both considered their 
view of Mr and Mrs Rs case was correct. 
The issue here however is whether the policy itself was mis-sold. I dont think it matters 
whether the policy definition of Lawyer was sufficiently clear on the question of whether 
this might encompass the appointment of a Paralegal, working under the supervision of a 
suitably qualified legal professional. What matters is whether Mr and Mrs R would have 
taken out the cover had they known this. And I think they would. I say so for a number of 
reasons. Firstly and as the investigator said, the policy was an add on to their home 
insurance. The primary reason for taking out this cover isnt usually as a standalone product 
but rather as an additional benefit to protecting their home and belongings. Secondly, the 
policy was sold at minimal cost (£29.00) in addition to their home insurance policy. By 2019, 
Mr and Mrs R had already made several claims on previous policies for a variety of different 
matters. Theyd received the benefit of legal assessments on each of those claims, which 
otherwise wouldnt have been available to them for the kind of cost theyd paid for the 
policies over the years. Legal costs can be expensive. I have no doubt that given the number 
of claims theyd made and the level of correspondence and documents theyd sent in that 
those costs would have far outweighed the policy premiums over the years. So, I think Mr 
and Mrs R would have taken the insurance out even if theyd known a Paralegal might have 
worked on their claims under the supervision of a suitably qualified legal professional.
Ive also thought about what Mr and Mrs R have said about Aviva misrepresenting that the 
policy would give them £100,000 worth of cover for each claim. I dont agree. Its true that 
the policy provides cover for up to £100,000 worth of legal costs but that doesnt mean that 
the insurer is going to provide this cover in every case. Like all insurance policies, its subject 
to other terms and conditions. As I understand it Aviva have not allowed Mr and Mrs Rs 
costs to rise significantly higher than the value of their current claim which is valued at about 
£25,000. Thats because the policy requires the claim to be proportionate to pursue which 
mirrors the Courts approach to litigation. That doesnt mean that Aviva have denied Mr and 
Mrs R the cover theyre entitled to just because they havent offered them £100,000 worth of legal costs. And I dont think there was anything in the policy itself that suggested that cover 
was unlimited and not subject to several other terms and conditions, such that Mr and Mrs R 
would be led to believe this would be the case. And even if it was- I dont think they would 
have done something differently and not taken the policy out. As I said above, it was a low 
cost policy providing considerable cover in certain circumstances. So, I dont think it would 
have been so unattractive to them that they wouldnt have taken it out. 
It's of note that if I thought the policy had been mis-sold, the remedy Id be offering Mr and 
Mrs R would be the return of the policy premium itself less the cost of any claims made on it. 
Those claims would far outweigh the policy premium so I dont think that a contrary opinion 
from me would be attractive to them in any event.
I know this decision will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs R but I hope Ive done my best to 
explain why I dont think their complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint about Aviva 
Insurance Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman