DRN-1105777
 
Complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) plc failed to send him a correct one time passcode 
when he tried to use his credit card to complete an online payment.
Background
Mr N has a Post Office Money credit card. The card was issued by Bank of Ireland. He tried 
to use the credit card to make an online payment. As part of the payment process he was 
asked to enter a one time passcode. He says that he tried on three occasions to enter the 
passcode that hed been sent but the payment was unsuccessful. He complained to Bank of 
Ireland. 
It said that it had checked its records and a passcode had been sent to him. It said that 
because it didnt hold his mobile phone number on its records, the passcode was sent to his 
landline phone number. This meant that a text speak service wouldve been used. It told Mr 
N that it would remove the landline phone number and in future Mr N could ask for the 
passcode to be sent to him by email. 
A few months later Mr N again tried to make an online payment using his credit card. The 
transaction was successful but he wasnt asked to enter a passcode. He contacted Bank of 
Ireland about this and complained again about what had happened on the previous 
occasion. Bank of Ireland looked into his complaint. It said that he hadnt been asked to 
enter a passcode on the second occasion because the transaction was for a low value 
amount. It also said that on the previous occasion hed entered the wrong passcode and 
suggested to him that he shouldve written the passcode down before trying to enter it.
Mr N says that the reply from Bank of Ireland is insulting. He says that the passcode he 
entered was the passcode that he was provided with and that there mustve been something 
wrong with Bank of Irelands systems. So, he referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He said that whilst he understood why Mr N 
mightve been insulted by the response hed received he didnt agree that thered been a 
system error. In the circumstances he said that he didnt require Bank of Ireland to do any 
more.
Mr N disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint for mainly the same reasons as our investigator.
Ive thought about what Mr N has told us about the passcode that he received. I can see that 
the passcode was sent to his landline phone number. If the passcode had been sent to a 
mobile phone number or an email address then Mr N wouldve been able to get a hard copy record of what hed been told. But, because that wasnt possible the passcode was delivered 
by text speak. This means that the message is read out by an electronic voice. I cannot be 
certain why the passcode that was relayed to Mr N was different to the one that hed been 
sent. It may be that during the process by which the passcode was converted to electronic 
voice, it became distorted. But, in any event the passcode that he entered didnt match the 
passcode that Bank of Irelands system was expecting to receive. And, for that reason the 
online payment couldnt be completed. In these circumstances, I dont think that Bank of 
Ireland did anything wrong when it didnt permit the payment. 
I can understand why Mr N felt offended when Bank of Ireland suggested that he shouldve 
written down the passcode that hed been sent. But, Ive looked at the actions that Bank of 
Ireland took when Mr N first brought the problem to its attention. It removed the landline 
phone number and suggested that in future he should request the passcode by email. So, I 
think that it acted fairly and reasonably and I wouldnt expect it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Ireland (UK) plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman