DRN-3046384
The complaint
Mr P complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Aquacard was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr P applied for a credit card with NewDay in February 2020. This application was approved 
for a card with a credit limit of £1,200. In July 2020, his credit limit was increased by £1,000 
to £2,200. A further credit limit increase of £1,000 was applied in November 2020 bringing 
Mr Ps credit limit to £3,200. Mr P says that adequate checks werent carried out before the 
credit limit increases were applied and noted he was in a debt management plan at the time. 
He says he made his minimum payments, but the interest charged meant he couldnt reduce 
the debt and he was struggling to meet all of his regular repayments. He says the situation 
had a negative impact on his mental health as he was constantly anxious about money and 
whether he would have enough to make his payments. He raised a complaint about 
irresponsible lending with NewDay in March 2021.
NewDay issued a final response letter dated 1 April 2021. It said it considered the 
information provided through the application process and data from credit reference 
agencies. It said based on the information received, Mr P met its lending criteria and so the 
card with an initial limit of £1,200 was provided. It said it regularly reviewed the credit limits it 
provided and that based on this it offered two credit limit increases to Mr P which he had the 
option to opt out of. It said that before the limit increases were offered adequate checks were 
undertaken and that Mr P proactively accepted the increased limits.
Mr P didnt agree with NewDays response and referred his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He thought the checks carried out before the 
credit card was provided with the £1,200 were proportionate and didnt think these checks 
raised concerns that meant the credit card shouldnt have been provided. He said that 
NewDay relied on information provided in Mr Ps application when considering the limit 
increases as well as how Mr P had been managing his account. He noted that Mr P had 
been paying more than the minimum amount in the months leading up to the credit limit 
increases and wasnt utilising a significant portion of the limit in place at that time. He said 
the credit checks didnt raise any concerns and thought Mr P only started to use a significant 
amount of the available limit after December 2020 which was after the increases had been 
applied. 
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he didnt dispute the initial credit limit 
but the subsequent credit limit increases. He said that the limit was increased twice within 
nine months, each time adding a further £1,000 of lending, while he had a poor credit score. 
He didnt think adequate checks were carried out before the increases were applied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P applied for a credit card with NewDay in February 2020. He has explained that he 
applied for the card in order to improve his credit score as he had experienced issues in the 
past and was in a debt management plan. Mr Ps complaint was less about the initial 
provision of the card and more about the subsequent credit limit increases. However, I have 
considered this complaint from the point of the provision of the initial card and credit limit to 
the most recent increase.
Before providing any lending to Mr P we would expect proportionate checks to be carried out 
to ensure the lending was sustainably affordable. In this case, before the card was provided 
affordability and credit worthiness checks were carried out. I have looked at the information 
gathered, and I think these checks were reasonable at that time. I can see that the 
information showed Mr P had some historic defaults but that none of his accounts were in 
arrears at that time and there was no other evidence to suggest that the lending shouldnt be 
provided. The initial credit limit applied to Mr Ps card was £1,200 and based on what I have 
seen I do not find I can say this was unreasonable.
In July 2020, Mr P was offered a credit limit increase of £1,000. Given this was only a few 
months after the initial card was provided, I think it reasonable that the affordability data 
provided at application was still considered relevant. Further credit information was gathered 
and having looked at this I do not think this would have raised concerns. By this time Mr P 
had been using the card for a few months and I can see that he was making his monthly 
payments. He hadnt utilised the full credit limit although his use was increasing, and he had 
a balance of around £875 in July 2020. Based on the information available on Mr Ps 
account at that time I do not think this raised concerns that he was in financial difficulty and I 
do not find I have enough to say that the offer to increase his limit was unreasonable at this 
time. I understand Mr P accepted the limit increase.
Mr Ps credit limit was then increased a second time by a further £1,000. By this time the 
limit was over two and a half times the amount of the initial limit provided around nine 
months previously. Given the size and timing of the increase I have carefully considered 
whether the checks carried out before this increase was offered were proportionate and 
whether further checks, if needed, would have suggested the lending wasnt sustainably 
affordable. 
I have looked at how Mr P was managing his account before this limit increase and I do not 
find that this raised any concerns. Mr P was making monthly repayments towards his 
account which were more than the minimum amount and was operating well within the credit 
limit (although his outstanding balance was increasing). Given this I do not think his account 
management or other information gathered at this time raised concerns about his financial 
situation. 
Following the November 2020 increase, Mr P did increase his spending on the card and I 
think had further increases been offered these would have raised concerns about whether 
they would have been sustainably affordable. However, in this case, I do not find that I have 
enough to say that the initial credit limit and the two subsequent limit increases shouldnt 
have been offered. Because of this I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against NewDay Ltd trading as 
Aquacard.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman