DRN-2490113
The complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) failed to carry out an annual service 
and increased his premiums, under his home emergency policy.
It should be noted that the insurer in this complaint is British Gas Insurance Limited, who is 
the business who underwrites this policy. 
What happened
In 2016 Mr M took out a boiler care policy that included an annual service with BG. BG didnt 
carry out the annual service during 2018 to 2019. In June 2019 Mr M was invited to renew 
his policy. The renewal price had increased. Mr M was unhappy with the increase and 
because BG hadnt carried out the annual service, wrote a letter indicating that he wanted to 
cancel his policy. 
In August 2019, BG called Mr M. During the conversation, it accepted that it had failed to 
carry out the annual service and that it didnt send out the reminder to book one. For this, it 
offered £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. In addition, it offered to reduce 
the premium to the cost of the previous years premium. Mr M declined to accept the offer of 
the reduced premium and confirmed that he wanted the policy cancelled. 
BG cancelled the policy from the date of the call but refunded the premiums paid from the 
date of the letter, to the date of the call. BG then sent Mr M its final response confirming the 
same outcome. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with BGs resolution, as he felt that BG shouldve refunded him the full 
cost of the premium as it hadnt provided the annual service. He also felt that the agent had 
been discourteous to him and so referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator partially upheld his complaint. She said:
That the premium didnt only cover the cost of the annual service but also for boiler 
issues. So it wasnt fair that BG refund the full premium.
BG was willing to reduce the next years premium, and this was fair.
That £50 compensation for the trouble and upset was reasonable as BG recognised 
that it hadnt carried out the annual service and failed to send the reminder.
Finally, as BG no longer retained the call recording, she accepted what Mr M had 
said about the poor service he received from the advisor. For this, she awarded a 
further £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
BG didnt agree with our investigators view regarding the additional £50 compensation. It 
said that there was no evidence to suggest that its agent had been impolite to Mr M.  Also, it 
was impossible for it to have retained the call recording given the volume of calls it received 
and the time that had elapsed when the call was made. So it was unfair for it to have to pay 
the additional compensation. BG asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I considered the complaint and I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. I issued a 
provisional decision on 12 November 2020 and asked both parties to send me anything else 
by 12 December 2020. In my provisional decision I said:
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Having done so, I intend not to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment 
to Mr M, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
My role is to determine whether BG has been reasonable in its dealings with Mr M. In doing 
so I have considered both parties comments, the work history and reviewed the terms and 
conditions of the policy. The main aspect of this complaint is whether BG ought to pay 
additional compensation for the service he received from the advisor. 
Theres no dispute that BG accepted that it hadnt sent out the reminder for the annual 
service and didnt carry out the annual service in 2018 to 2019. For those errors, BG offered 
compensation of £50 for the trouble and upset it caused. 
I have reviewed the policy terms and conditions and it says that: You can still contact us at 
any time to book it. Although BG didnt send out a reminder it wouldnt have precluded Mr M 
from contacting BG to arrange an annual service, if he wished to. 
In addition, Mr M has said that he believed that BG was in breach of contract by its failure to 
arrange a service within 12 months. Nevertheless, the policy provides that: - Your annual 
service may be more, or less, than 12 months after your last service visit.  So, I dont think 
that by BG having failed to carry out the annual service within the 12-month period, 
breached the terms of the contract it had with Mr M. Thats because the policy provides that 
an annual service can be carried out beyond the 12-month period. Despite this, BG 
recognised its failings and offered compensation for it. I am satisfied that its offer was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I have next looked at whether BG ought to pay an additional £50 by way of compensation for 
the inconvenience it caused, and I dont think it should and Ill explain why. 
Mr M has said that the advisor was rude and that he insisted that he must call again to 
confirm that he wished the cancel the cover. Unfortunately despite a request for the call 
recording from BG, it confirmed that the recording was no longer available due to the 
passage of time. So I must base my decision on the evidence before me. 
I accept that Mr M wrote a letter to BG telling it that he wanted to cancel his policy. Following 
this, the evidence shows that he received a call from BG. I think that this call wouldve been 
BGs attempt to try to retain Mr M as a customer as it offered to lower the next years 
premium amongst other things. BG has provided a record of the call which details what the agent did during it. He noted that 
Mr M had raised a complaint, that he cancelled the policy on Mr Ms request and that a 
partial refund of the premium was raised. The record said as follows:
Contract Cancelled Reason: Price Related
 Balance Refunded: £14.22 
Cancellation Effective Date: 05.08.19
Products: Homecare One - -Contact cancelled as customer unhappy with renewal price
Call Reason: Other
So I am persuaded by BGs comments that there wouldve been no reason for its advisor to 
tell Mr M to phone in again in order to cancel his policy, as from the record, the cancellation 
of the cover was one of the actions that the advisor completed. 
Also, given that BG offered (as a goodwill gesture) £50 compensation by way of apology for 
missing the annual service and not sending the reminder, I think that this shows that BG 
attempted to assist Mr M. So I dont think there is enough evidence to indicate that the 
advisor had been impolite. 
Overall, BG has dealt with Mr M fairly and I am satisfied that its offer is fair in the 
circumstances and I intend not to ask BG to do anything more to resolve this complaint. But I 
invite both parties to send me any further comments they might have for me to consider, in 
response to my provisional decision.
Responses to my provisional decision
BG had nothing further to add to the provisional decision.
Mr M said that he didnt make vexatious complaints. He was disappointed with the current 
findings. He wanted to remind me that BG had breached is own terms on the policy and 
directed me to look at page 27 of the policy. He was concerned that BG were happy to take 
money from him without providing a service and he felt that the policy wasnt worth the paper 
it was written on. 
What I think and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
I have further reviewed the evidence given the responses received, in reconsidering this 
complaint.
I have reviewed page 27 of the policy and it doesnt mention anything relating to annual 
services. But page 29 does detail the terms regarding the annual service. Whilst I accept 
that this terms states that BG will attempt to contact policy holders to remind them to book 
for an annual service, the terms also states that that annual service could happen either 
within 12 months of the last service or more than 12 months of the last service. So I dont 
think BG is in breach of the terms of the policy as the policy allows for annual services to 
take place 12 months or more after the last service visit.
In addition, BG offered £50 compensation for its failure to remind Mr M to book for the 
annual service, in the circumstances I think that this is a fair and reasonable offer. 
Finally, Mr M said that he didnt make vexatious complaints and felt that BG were offering a 
service that wasnt worth the paper it was written on.  I understand Mr Ms disappointment with my decision, but I dont find that his complaint was vexatious. Reviewing the policy, I 
can see that Mr M had covered his boiler (amongst other things) for boiler breakdown as well 
as the annual service. So if Mr M had encountered an issue with his boiler, BG wouldve 
attended and carried out any repairs on an unlimited basis. Im aware that the annual service 
element of the policy only makes up a small part of it and the £50 compensation reflects this. 
So I dont think BG has been unreasonable or unfair by the level of compensation it paid. 
And I wont be asking BG to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given. 
British Gas Insurance Limited has already paid £50 towards Mr Ms distress and 
inconvenience and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman