DRN-3240420
The complaint
Mr H has complained, through his representative, about the shares he bought through
Templeton Securities Limited (an appointed representative of Alexander David Securities
Limited). The representative has said the shares werent suitable for Mr H, and Templeton
Securities didnt act in Mr Hs best interests. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 5 November 2021. The background 
and circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to 
uphold it were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant sections from that provisional 
decision below, and it forms part of this final decision. 
Mr H was encouraged by two unregulated firms to switch money out of two personal 
pension schemes to a SIPP (Self Invested Personal Pension) to then invest in two shares 
 Emmit Plc and Eligere Investments Plc.
The total value transferred to the SIPP was £48,258 in April 2014. My understanding is 
that Templeton Securities Limited wasnt involved in the advice given to Mr H to switch 
his pensions to the SIPP.
Mr H was persuaded by one of the unregulated firms to open an advisory dealing 
account. He completed an application form on 9 May 2014 for a Private Client Portfolio 
account. Mr H completed a Private Client Portfolio Agreement and Application Booklet. 
These said, amongst other things:
What to expect as a client of Templeton Securities
We understand that individual client investment needs vary with differing goals and as 
an independent stockbroker, Templeton Securities aim is to provide the best private 
client investment service with clarity and vision whilst tailoring our advice to suit 
individual client needs.
To understand your investment requirements and to create your personal portfolio, we will 
need to know the details of your financial background and your plans for the future which 
will enable us to advise a tailored solution to suit your aims and objectives. It is therefore 
imperative that you fully complete this Application as failure to do so may mean that we 
are unable to affect a suitable portfolio or offer an appropriate service.
We are required under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 {"FSMA") to 
provide you with suitable investment advice and services, based on the information you 
provide to us  about your circumstances. By completing this form in its entirety, you will 
enable us to fully comply with the requirements of this Act.
Under the section Important Financial Information it said:
In order for us to properly assess your ability to bear investment risks in relation to the 
services we provide, we need to understand the composition of your assets and 
liabilities, and income and expenditure. We are required to take this into account when 
assessing the suitability of our investment management service we provide...
Please enter details of your total assets and liabilities (Please enter amounts to 
the nearest thousand pounds)
This section was left blank.
Under Income and Expenditure it recorded that Mr Hs total income was £19,000 and 
so was his total expenditure. The Surplus/Deficit was zero.
Under Investment Risk and Objectives it said:
Preferred Level of Portfolio Risk
Please indicate below your preferred level of portfolio risk as part of your overall 
investment strategy.
Ticks were placed in the Medium and Medium/High category.
The section headed Investment Experience asked what types of investment Mr H had 
traded previously and the box Advisory Broking was ticked. When asked to describe his 
level of experience for various asset classes, the novice category (less than 1 year) was 
ticked for equities, fixed interest and alternative assets. And the intermediate (1-5 years) 
for Funds.
When asked if copy information should be sent to his professional intermediary including 
his Independent Financial Adviser, the section for details was left blank.
Under Acceptance Form it said, amongst other things:
l/We wish Templeton Securities Limited (Templeton") to advise on a portfolio of 
investments for me in accordance with the Terms and Conditions, a copy of which we 
have received and which I agree to.
The relevant sections of the General Terms and Conditions of Business included:
2. Introduction
2.1.This document contains details of the investment advisory and execution only 
services which Templeton Securities (TEMPLETON) shall provide you with our services 
in accordance with the Client Application Form, and it sets out the obligations and rights 
applying between us and you.
2.2. These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable 
Regulations. 
The term  Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued by 
the FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b .the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any 
Applicable Regulations, the latter will prevail;
3. The services we will provide
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with 
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial 
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though 
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that you are 
not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction in a non-
complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or product investment 
recommendations. Nothing in our literature or in these Terms & Conditions should be 
treated as a solicitation or recommendation to buy, sell or maintain any product. We will 
action all instructions on an execution-only basis. This means that we are only able to act 
on the instructions that you provide. We cannot give you advice about what instructions 
you should give us. You are responsible for the investment decisions that you make when 
you engage our services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept responsibility 
on a continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio
3.2 If we have agreed to provide you with an advisory service, we accept responsibility for 
advising you as to the merits of any particular investment based on the information 
supplied by you in the TEMPLETON Application Form pertaining to your individual 
circumstances, requirements and objectives. We may provide you with investment advice 
on your request. Information supplied by you, via the TEMPLETON Application Form, 
should be updated as necessary before we give you advice on a particular transaction. If 
you do not inform us of any investment or types of investments, which you do not wish us 
to recommend or purchase for you, we may recommend to you any investments provided 
that we have reasonable grounds for believing that each investment product we do 
recommend is suitable and appropriate for you, in accordance with FCA rules. We do not 
undertake discretionary management of your investments, any investment advice we give 
you is provided on the understanding that we do not accept responsibility on a continuing 
basis for advising on the composition of your portfolio.
3.7 We may, at our discretion, decline to accept any order or instruction from you or 
instigate certain conditions prior to proceeding with your order.
4.9 Specific client instructions
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we 
will execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions.
5. Suitability
5.1 In providing a managed portfolio service or giving investment advice to you, we are 
required by the FCA to obtain the necessary information from you regarding your 
knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
investment or service provided to you, your financial situation and your investment 
objectives in order to assess the suitability of our advice and of the transactions to be 
entered into by us on your behalf. In particular, we must obtain from you such information 
as is necessary for us to understand the essential facts about you and have a reasonable 
basis for believing, giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service 
provided, that the specific transactions to be recommended, or entered into in the course 
of managing:(a) meets your investment objectives;
(b) is such that you are able to financially bear any related investment risks consistent 
with your investment objectives; and
(c) is such that you have the necessary experience and knowledge in order to 
understand the risks involved in the transaction or in the management of your 
portfolio.
6. Appropriateness
6.1. In providing services other than investment advice management, we may be subject 
to an obligation under Applicable Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the 
contemplated product or service for you by determining whether you have the necessary 
experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to the 
specific type of product or service offered or demanded. In such circumstances, where on 
the basis of information received we consider that the contemplated product or service is 
not appropriate for you, we will provide you with a warning to that effect.
6.4 Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular 
transaction if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that transaction, you 
are not expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-only basis. Where the 
transaction relates to non-complex financial instruments such as shares, bonds and 
UCITS, we will inform you at the time that we will execute your order on that basis and we 
will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or appropriate for you. Please 
note therefore, that you will not benefit from the protection of the relevant FCA Rules 
requiring us to assess the suitability or appropriateness of the transaction for you.
The Terms definitions provided Execution-Only means that we act on your 
instructions and offer no advice as to whether such an investment is suitable for you.
Templeton sent a letter to Mr H dated 20 May 2014. Amongst other things it said:
"We note your interest in high risk products, investments in smaller companies, in 
particular 'Penny Shares' and investments that are not readily realisable e.g. small 
unquoted companies involve a high risk that all or part of your investment may be lost.
You may also have difficulty in selling these shares at a reasonable price and in some 
circumstances you may not be able to sell at any price. There can be a big difference 
between the buying and selling price and if they have to be sold immediately, you may 
get back much less than you paid for them.
On 21 May 2014 Mr H e-mailed Templeton Securities. The e-mail included:
I wish to invest £23,374.50 in Eligere investments plc (ELI) gxg listed securities with a 
55 pence limit for T3 settlement.
I wish to invest £23,374.50 in Emmit plc (EMT) aim listed securities with a £1.75 limit for 
T1 settlement.
Please advise me via e-mail when this has been transacted.
Templeton bought these shares investing £22,878 in Eligere and £22,903 in Emmit 
(after commission and costs). My understanding is that the instruction was prompted 
by the unregulated firm who provided Mr H with the wording for it.
Templeton wrote to Mr H on 30 May 2014.  The letter said:Re: Appropriateness of your Investment  Emmit
We are writing to draw your attention to the investment of your pension in the above type 
of stocks and believe that you need to consider whether or not you feel its appropriate to 
invest in such high risk investments.
We fully understand that you have purchased these 'Execution Only' but wish to advise 
that in the provision of this execution, Templeton Securities is not required to assess the 
suitability of the service provided or offered and that therefore, as a client, you do not 
benefit from the corresponding protection of the relevant FCA Conduct of Business 
Rules.
The FCA issued a statement about the promotion of shares in Emmit on 31 October 2014. 
It said it had been made aware that individuals were being encouraged to transfer money 
from their work pension schemes into Self-Invested Personal Pensions (SIPPs) and use 
that money to buy shares in Emmit plc. It said some investors were being offered cash 
back on their investments in Emmit plc of up to 30% of the transfer value, paid by a third 
party, as an incentive to do this. Some investors appeared to have invested 100% of their 
pension assets into Emmit plc shares and could suffer significant financial loss if they 
have done this without fully understanding what they were doing.
Trading of shares in Emmit plc and Eligere Investments plc was suspended in May and 
June 2015 respectively.
Mr H complained to Templeton Securities through his representative on 10 May 2017. It 
said, in summary, that the investments were mis-sold to Mr H because he had never 
traded stocks or shares, had no experience or expertise in investments and he wasnt 
suitable as an execution only client. It said Mr H had opened an advisory dealing account 
so that he could receive advice on his investments. It said Templeton was required to 
take reasonable steps to ensure that Mr Hs decision to trade was suitable for him. It 
believed the way the business had been introduced and executed had breached the 
FCAs Principles, and Templeton hadnt acted in Mr Hs best interests.
Templeton Securities didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint, and it was referred to us. One of 
our adjudicators considered it and recommended that it should be upheld. He said, in 
brief, that he thought it should have been clear from the information that Mr H had 
provided to Templeton about himself and his circumstances that he wasnt a suitable 
person for a stockbroking account providing an execution only facility. He didnt think 
Templeton Securities had met its obligations under the Regulators Principles for 
Business: it hadnt conducted its business with integrity, or paid due regard to Mr Hs best 
interests.
Templeton Securities didnt accept the adjudicators findings and therefore the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its compulsory 
jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm in the carrying on of 
one or more listed activities, including regulated activities (DISP 2.3.1R).Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the Regulated Activities Order (RAO) and 
include advising on investments (article 53 RAO). And arranging deals in investments 
(article 25 RAO). So I can consider the complaint either about advice  or the omission to 
provide advice. Or about arranging the purchase of the shares if it was an execution only 
sale.
Ive therefore read and considered all the available evidence and arguments to 
provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
When evidence is incomplete Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities  
which, in other words, means Ive based it on what I think is most likely to have happened 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The documentation and literature that was provided at the time that the Private 
Client Portfolio account was opened clearly described it as providing an advisory 
service. However, whilst the account was advisory, the terms did also provide for 
Templeton to accept execution only instructions in some circumstances.
Templeton Securities has referred to Clause 6.4. Clause 6.4 came under the heading 
Appropriateness. Clause 6.1 said we may be subject to an obligation under Applicable 
Regulations to assess the appropriateness of the contemplated product or service. I think 
this is reference to the requirements under COBS 10 (the regulators Conduct of Business 
Rules). My understanding is the shares bought here werent subject to COBS 10. But 
Clause 6.4 went onto say:
Please note, however, that we will not advise you about the merits of a particular 
transaction if we reasonably believe that, when you give the order for that 
transaction, you are not expecting such advice and are dealing on an execution-
only basis. Where the transaction relates to noncomplex financial instruments such as 
shares, bonds and UCITS, we will inform you at the time that we will execute your order 
on that basis and we will not be required to ensure that the transaction is suitable or 
appropriate for you.
And Clause 3.1 provided:
3.1 If you are designated as an execution-only client or if you have not supplied us with 
sufficient information (either orally or in writing) about your investment objectives, financial 
circumstances and the degree of risk you are prepared to accept or when, even though 
you have previously supplied us with information, we may reasonably believe that 
you are not expecting us to advise you about the merits of a particular transaction 
in a non- complex financial instrument, then we will not make any personal or 
product investment recommendations. [My emphasis].The documentation that has been provided doesnt show that Mr H was designated as 
an execution only client. However Clause 3.1 and 6.4 provided an alternative basis for 
carrying out execution only services as highlighted. And Clauses 3.1 and 4.9 went onto 
say:
You are responsible for the investment decisions that you make when you engage our 
services as an execution-only customer. We do not accept responsibility on a 
continuing basis for advising you on the composition of your portfolio
4.9 Specific client instructions
4.9.1 Where you give us a specific instruction as to the execution of an order, we 
will execute the order in accordance with those specific instructions..
Given the particular wording of the 21 May 2014 e-mail, I think Templeton Securities 
was entitled to reasonably believe that Mr H wasnt expecting advice about the merits 
of the transaction. It was an order to buy particular shares and at a particular price, on a 
specific settlement basis. I dont think there was anything in the e-mail that suggests that 
Mr H was asking for advice about the merits of the purchases or otherwise suggests that 
Mr H was expecting Templeton to give him advice. I think this is consistent with the 
transaction being driven by the unregulated firms. Templeton wasnt therefore accepting 
responsibility for the investment decision executed on an execution only basis as per 
Clause 3.1. It carried out the instruction as per Clause 4.9.
Clause 6.4 of the terms said that Templeton Securities would write to Mr H where it 
executed a transaction in non-complex financial instruments to inform him it had placed 
the order on that basis. Templeton did write to Mr H on 30 May 2014 - a few days later - as 
I outlined above. However the letter only referred to the shares in Emmit.
Im required to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. We 
have received a number of complaints against Templeton Securities representing 
Alexander David, about very similar transactions that all happened at around the same 
time.
Its apparent that Templeton Securities received a number of requests to open this type 
of advisory account with it, all within a relatively short period. And very shortly after the 
accounts were opened e-mailed instructions with almost identical wording were sent to 
Templeton Securities asking to invest in these same two shares.
On the day that Templeton Securities received Mr Hs e-mail (21 May 2014), it had 
already received another five e-mails from different investors. They were all to invest in 
these shares, with near identical wording, and sent to the same person at Templeton 
(who I understand held the CF30 function with Alexander David Securities at that time). 
This was all very shortly after the accounts had been opened with it.
To date we have received 21 complaints. The e-mails were sent to the same person at 
Templeton Securities. I think its likely further e-mails were sent to the same person at 
Templeton Securities on other accounts, as these are only the cases where investors 
have complained and the matter has been referred to us. So potentially there were other 
e-mails sent to Templeton on 21 May 2014, or earlier. However 21 May 2014 was the 
first day that I am aware these e-mail instructions were sent to Templeton, so I have 
considered Mr Hs complaint in that context.
Templeton Securities primary duty was to implement its clients instructions. But that duty wasnt unqualified.
Firstly, it had a broad contractual discretion whether to accept any order or instruction 
from Mr H as provided in Clause 3.7 of the Terms and Conditions. Second, it had an 
obligation to comply with the FCAs rules.
As I have set out above, the accounts Terms and Conditions included:
2.2 These Terms and Conditions and all transactions are subject to Applicable 
Regulations. The term Applicable Regulations means:
a. the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) including the Handbook issued 
by the FCA (FCA Rules) or any other rules of a relevant regulatory authority;
b. the rules of a relevant stock or investment exchange; and
c. all other applicable laws, rules and regulations as in force from time to time.
This means that:
(i) if there is any conflict between these Terms and Conditions and any 
Applicable Regulations, the latter will prevail.
So the duty to comply with the FCAs rules was recognised in the Terms and Conditions 
as an overriding duty that prevailed over anything to the contrary in those Terms.
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection which it seeks to achieve through 
application of its Rules, including its Principles for Business (PRIN). Templeton 
Securities was providing regulated financial services and was bound by these 
Principles and other Rules. This is consistent with the accounts terms and conditions.
In British Bankers Association v The Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011] EWHC 
999 (Admin), Ouseley J said [at paragraph 162]:
The Principles are best understood as the ever-present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The Specific rules do 
not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are but specific 
applications of them to the particular requirement they cover. The general notion that the 
specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is inappropriate. It cannot be an 
error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules.
And at paragraph 77:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what would 
be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had been 
produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty 
without having regard to the sort of high-level principles which find expression in the 
Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In deciding what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about the Principles which I think 
are relevant to this complaint. In my view they are Principles 2, 3 and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due skill, 
care and diligence.Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to organise 
and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management 
systems
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of 
its customers and treat them fairly.
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether in conducting this 
business Templeton Securities complied with these Principles. Ive considered the matter 
in the context of the wider circumstances as I have described in considering Templeton 
Securities obligations; that Templeton had received at least five e-mails prior to Mr Hs e- 
mail on that day, and all sent to the same person; there was a pattern of remarkably 
similar worded execution only instructions from different clients with SIPP accounts it was 
being asked to process, in the same niche shares, and on non-mainstream markets.
I think in these circumstances a stockbroker, acting reasonably, ought to have been 
alerted that something unusual and concerning might be going on. In my view, the 
circumstances ought to have been a trigger for Templeton Securities to intervene in the 
normal processing of the transaction, and take a closer look behind it.
If it had done so, it would have identified that the instructions were coming from 
ordinary retail customers who:
had all recently opened advisory accounts and yet within a short period of time 
from opening were all sending execution only instructions to make their first 
investment;
were investing the majority of the money in their SIPP in these same niche 
shares presenting significant risks; they werent the type of investments that 
you would normally expect to form the significant part of anyones pension 
provision;
had sent almost identically worded instructions to invest in the same niche 
shares, suggesting these retail consumers may be being systematically advised 
by someone to buy these shares and on how to go about it.
And this was in the context that:
Only an FCA authorised firm was lawfully able to give investment advice. And a 
regulated firm giving investment advice would usually arrange the transactions 
themselves so as to charge dealing commission. It raised the possibility of 
serious malpractice if an unauthorised person was giving investment advice in 
breach of s19 of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
The grouped instructions to purchase two niche shares, specifying particular 
days for settlement at particular prices, was highly unusual for seemingly 
unconnected retail customers. Including settlement details in their instructions 
was not only unusual but served no obvious purpose from a pension investors 
point of view.
The possibility that the advice to buy the shares was coming from an 
unauthorized person was increased by the riskiness of concentrating pension 
funds in the shares of one or two small, obscure companies: an FCA-authorised 
firm would have regulatory obligations not to give unsuitable investment advice, and would be unlikely to find such shares a suitable pension investment for 
many (if any) of their clients, let alone a string of clients, and all at around the 
same time.
In my view, the circumstances surrounding the receipt of Mr Hs instructions ought 
reasonably to have caused Templeton Securities to take a closer look at the transaction. 
If it had done so, and looked at the information it already had available through the 
account opening documentation, it would have seen that Mr H had said experience wise 
he was a novice investor in equities; he had a very modest income; hed said his 
preferred level of risk was medium to medium/high, and either he hadnt got any other 
saving or investments or he hadnt completed the part of the application headed 
Important Financial Information.
Mr Hs instruction to invest almost the entire value of his account into two niche shares, 
presenting significant risks, was clearly at odds with him being a novice investor in 
equities, with a likely limited understanding of the investments, and preferring a medium 
to medium/high level of risk. His income was recorded as £19,000 which equalled his 
spending  he had no disposable income. No details had been provided when in the 
section that asked if copy information should be sent to Mr Hs professional intermediary 
such as his Independent Financial Adviser (IFA), suggesting an IFA wasnt the source of 
the instructions.
Given these inconsistencies, I think Templeton Securities should have recognised that the 
investments were highly likely to be unsuitable for Mr H. And that Cs [which should read 
his]  placing of the order wasnt a result of some idiosyncrasy of Mr H himself, because 
there were others giving virtually identical instructions in similar circumstances. There was 
plainly likely to be a third party behind all the instructions.
So in this context, is it reasonable to think that Templeton Securities should have 
discovered that the source of the numerous and similarly worded instructions to buy 
the niche shares came from an unregulated source?
Ive seen no persuasive evidence of any formal arrangement between Templeton 
Securities and either of the unregulated firms. However there is a Form of Authority for 
one of the unregulated forms [firms] that was signed by Mr H and dated 9 May 2014. 
Such a form was on the majority of the complaints that have been referred to the 
Ombudsman Service. My understanding is the form was sent to Templeton by the SIPP 
provider.
But in any event, I think there were clear warning signs in the existing information that 
Templeton Securities already had available to it. And on making further enquiries with 
Mr H and other clients directly, it would have become apparent that an unauthorised 
person was advising clients to invest in these shares and helping them do so; giving 
investment advice and arranging deals in investments in breach of s19 of The Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000. I dont think Mr H or the other clients would have 
reason not to tell Templeton Securities who had recommended the transactions and the 
unregulated firms roles if Templeton Securities had asked the question and pointed out 
the reasons for its concern.
In this context, I think Templeton Securities should have identified that Mr H and other 
clients were probably being given regulated investment advice by a firm which lacked 
authorisation to give the advice, and that an unregulated firm was probably breaching 
the general prohibition under s.19. On making reasonable enquiries it would have 
discovered that the advice in Mr Hs case was wholly inconsistent with his 
circumstances and manifestly unsuitable for his pension fund, and that executing his instructions was entirely contrary to his best interests. In these circumstances I think it 
should have exercised its discretion to decline to accept the instruction.
So I dont think Templeton Securities met its obligations under Principles 2, 3 and 6. I 
think if it had conducted its business with skill care and diligence and took reasonable 
care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems, it should have identified the unusual pattern of execution only 
requests and intervened to take a closer look at the transaction. If it had done so, in the 
circumstances as I have described, I think it should have spotted the clear risks to Mr H, 
and, acting in his best interests, exercised its discretion to decline to accept his 
instruction. 
Taking all the circumstances into account, I consider that Templeton Securities 
unreasonably accepted Mr Hs instruction when it had the opportunity and obligation to 
prevent the purchase of the shares.
Given that I think Templeton Securities failed to meet its regulatory obligations, I need 
to decide whether its failings caused the losses that Mr H has claimed. So Ive 
considered what Mr H would likely have done if Templeton Securities had declined to 
carry out his instruction.
Mr H had already transferred his money to the SIPP and switched his money into the 
advisory account with Templeton Securities. So if Templeton Securities had declined 
to accept the instruction Mr H would have had practical difficulties if he still wanted to 
buy the shares; he would have needed to find another broker and get the SIPP 
provider to open another account to enable him to do so.
However Mr H received a payment of approximately £3,000 following the 
transaction, which I understand came from one of the unregulated firms.
I recognise the influence of the unregulated firms who appeared to be driving the 
transactions in the background. And that a payment could have been motivation for Mr H 
to want to continue to buy the same shares, irrespective of the actions of Templeton 
Securities and therefore the practical difficulties of doing so.
However I think its likely Mr H would have lost trust in the unregulated firm(s) if 
Templeton Securities, as a regulated firm, had said it wouldnt process his instruction 
and its reasons for not doing so.
When Mr H opened his account the documentation showed he was a novice investor 
in equities and his preferred level of risk was medium to medium/high, which isnt 
consistent with an interest in these high-risk shares.
Given the significant risk of loss of the amount invested in the shares, over £46,000 
including costs, relative to the £3,000 payment; the practical difficulties of buying the 
shares if Templeton Securities had declined his instruction, and that Mr H had indicated 
his preferred level of risk was medium to medium/high, I think, on balance, its unlikely 
that Mr H would have invested in Emmit and Eligere had it not been for Templeton 
Securities failings.
Whilst I acknowledge the role of the two unregulated firms in the transaction, it was 
Templeton Securities that was authorised to provide regulated financial services and 
was bound by the obligations flowing from the Rules and Principles as I have outlined 
above. I think in the circumstances, the onus was on Templeton Securities to have 
recognised the clear possibility of detriment to Mr H, and it should have prevented his losses for the reasons I have given.
As I outlined above, Templeton wrote to Mr H about the appropriateness of the shares 
on 30 May 2014. The letter was about the Emmit shares only. It did say these shares 
were high risk, but it said Mr H should consider whether or not he felt they were 
appropriate for him. Mr H was recorded as a novice investor in equities so he wasnt an 
expert. I think he would reasonably have understood the shares were appropriate given 
he had been advised to buy them only a few days earlier. Whilst this was by an 
unregulated firm, I think its unlikely he would have known the significance of this.
Mr H had indicated that his attitude to risk was medium to medium/high so he might 
have thought that a high-risk investment wasnt incompatible with that. The letter didnt 
indicate that there were any particular problems with the investment. And I dont think 
the wording was sufficient to have prompted Mr H to think the investments werent 
suitable for him and he should act. I dont think there was an obligation for Mr H to have 
sold the shares or that he acted unreasonably in not selling them. And for the reasons 
Ive given, I dont think Mr H would have been invested in the shares but for 
Templetons shortcomings; in my view it should have identified there was an 
unregulated business involved and declined to process the investment instruction.
Templeton Securities sent a letter to Mr H dated 20 May 2014. Amongst other things it said:
"We note your interest in high risk products, investments in smaller companies, in 
particular 'Penny Shares' and investments that are not readily realisable e.g. small 
unquoted companies, involve a high risk that all or part of your investment may be lost.
My understanding is this was an introductory letter and, regardless of whether the 
new client was low, medium or high risk, it was a generic paragraph that was 
included in the letter to give a general warning of trading in high risk shares.
Ive currently seen no evidence that Mr H had expressed an interest in high risk 
products, investments in smaller companies, in particular 'Penny Shares' and 
investments that are not readily realisable. And as I have said, when he opened his 
account the documentation showed he had limited experience of investments, was a 
novice investor in equities and his preferred level of risk was medium to medium/high, 
which isnt consistent with an interest in these high-risk shares.
Given the significant risk of loss of the amount invested in the shares, just over 
£46,000, relative to the £3,000 payment; the practical difficulties of buying the shares if 
Templeton Securities had declined his instruction, and that Mr H had indicated his 
preferred level of risk was medium to medium/high , I think, on balance, its unlikely 
that Mr H would have invested in Emmit and Eligere had it not been for Templeton 
Securities failings.
So I think Mr Hs losses flow from the failure of Templeton Securities to meet its 
regulatory obligations. And I think it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances for 
Templeton Securities to pay compensation to Mr H for the losses that resulted from 
those failings.
Applying sections 27 and 28 FSMA
For the sake of completeness, I have examined a separate basis upon which 
Templeton Securities may be responsible for the same losses. So Ive considered the 
findings in the recent Court of Appeal case Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions 
LLP. The court considered, amongst other things, the application of sections 27 and 28 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
In summary, s27 may apply where an authorised person makes an agreement with 
another person in the course of carrying out a regulated activity, which was a 
consequence of something said or done by an unregulated party acting in breach of 
the general prohibition (s19 of FSMA). S27 provides that an agreement to which it 
applies is unenforceable against the other party, and sets out what the other party can 
recover.
S28 of FSMA provides the court with the discretion to allow an agreement to which 
s.27 applies to be in any event enforced, if it considers it is just and equitable to do 
so.
The relevant parts of section 27 and 28 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 provide:
27 Agreements made through unauthorised persons.
(1) This section applies to an agreement that 
(a) is made by an authorised person (the provider) in the course of carrying on a 
regulated activity,
(d) is made in consequence of something said or done by another person (the third 
party) in the course of
(i) a regulated activity carried on by the third party in contravention of the 
general prohibition,
(1A) An agreement to which this section applies is unenforceable against the other party.
(2)The other party is entitled to recover
(a)any money or other property paid or transferred by him under the agreement; and
(b)compensation for any loss sustained by him as a result of 
having parted with it. 
(3)Agreement means an agreement
(a)made after this section comes into force; and
(b)the making or performance of which constitutes, or is part of, the regulated 
activity in question carried on by the provider.
28 Agreements made unenforceable by section 26 or 27 [general cases].
(1)This section applies to an agreement which is unenforceable because of 
section 26 or 27, other than an agreement entered into in the course of carrying on 
a credit-related regulated activity.
(2)The amount of compensation recoverable as a result of that section is
(a)the amount agreed by the parties; or
(b)on the application of either party, the amount determined by the court.
(3)If the court is satisfied that it is just and equitable in the circumstances of the 
case, it may allow
(a)the agreement to be enforced; or
(b)money and property paid or transferred under the agreement to be retained.
(4) In considering whether to allow the agreement to be enforced or (as the case 
may be) the money or property paid or transferred under the agreement to be 
retained the court must
(b) if the case arises as a result of section 27, have regard to the issue 
mentioned in subsection (6).
(6)The issue is whether the provider knew that the third party was (in carrying 
on the regulated activity) contravening the general prohibition.(7)If the person against whom the agreement is unenforceable
(a)elects not to perform the agreement, or
(b)as a result of this section, recovers money paid or other property transferred 
by him under the agreement, he must repay any money and return any other 
property received by him under the agreement.
(8) If property transferred under the agreement has passed to a third party, a 
reference in section 26 or 27 or this section to that property is to be read as a 
reference to its value at the time of its transfer under the agreement.
The Court of Appeal decided that s27 of FSMA applied in the circumstances of that case. 
So it went onto consider s28 (3) - would it be just and equitable, in the circumstances of 
the case, to allow the agreement to be enforced/ the money and property paid or 
transferred under the agreement to be retained. In deciding the matter s28 (4) required it 
to consider s28(6)  did the provider know the third party was contravening the general 
prohibition? It considered whether this meant actual knowledge of it or constructive 
knowledge. And decided it meant actual knowledge. It found that Carey didnt have 
actual knowledge. But then it went onto say:
Where a provider actually knew that the general prohibition was being breached, that 
must weigh heavily against use of the power conferred by section 28(3) of FSMA. If, on 
the other hand, a provider lacked such knowledge, it may still be appropriate to deny 
relief under section 28(3). And
Likewise, meeting the requirements of section 28(6) will not necessarily mean that relief 
should be granted. Amongst the factors that it may be proper to take into account is 
whether the provider should reasonably have known that the general prohibition was 
being contravened.
The court decided, on the particular facts of the case, not to exercise the discretion 
provided to it in s28. It didnt think it was just and equitable to grant Carey relief under 
section 28(3) of FSMA. It referred to the surrounding circumstances that it thought ought 
to have given reason for Carey to be concerned about the possibility of the unregulated 
firm arranging and advising on investments even though it didnt in fact appreciate that 
the general prohibition was being contravened.
The court made the following comments:
A key aim of FSMA is consumer protection. It proceeds on the basis that, while 
consumers can to an extent be expected to bear responsibility for their own decisions, 
there is a need for regulation, among other things to safeguard consumers from their own 
folly. That much reduces the force of Mr Greens contentions that Mr Adams caused his 
own losses and misled Carey; and
While SIPP providers were not barred from accepting introductions from unregulated 
sources, section 27 of FSMA was designed to throw risks associated with doing so onto 
the providers. Authorised persons are at risk of being unable to enforce agreements and 
being required to return money and other property and to pay compensation regardless 
of whether they had had knowledge of third parties contraventions of the general 
prohibition.
Ive considered Mr Hs complaint in light of the Courts findings. For s27 of FSMA to 
apply, an agreement must have been made by an authorised person (here, Templeton) 
in consequence of a contravention of the general prohibition by a third party (here, the 
unregulated firm).Given the facts of Mr Hs complaint and the surrounding circumstances as I have set out 
above, I think its most likely an unregulated firm was breaching the general prohibition 
by arranging deals in and advising on investments  articles 25 and 53 of the Regulated 
Activities Order. And I think the advice and the unregulated firms actions in providing Mr 
H with his draft purchase instruction clearly played a crucial part in Mr H buying the 
shares.
As Ive explained, I think its hardly likely that so many ordinary retail clients would 
suddenly all unilaterally decide to invest in these two little known niche shares at 
around the same time. So I think a court would find that s27 applies, and Mr H can 
(subject to s.28), recover the monies he invested through his agreement with 
Templeton Securities when it accepted his instructions to purchase the shares and 
the investment losses he sustained.
Ive therefore gone onto consider s28.
I think the overriding question is that set out in s.28(3); whether it would be just and 
equitable in the circumstances of the case to allow enforcement of the agreement 
or retention of the price paid. The significance of s.28(4) and (6) is to require the 
court to have regard to whether the firm knew the third party was breaching the 
general prohibition. But as the Court of Appeal emphasised, meeting the 
requirements of section 28(6) will not necessarily mean that relief should be 
granted. So whilst it has to be taken into account, it doesnt make that factor 
necessarily determinative.
Equally, the question of whether the firm should reasonably have known the general 
prohibition was being breached is something that it may be proper to take into account, 
but it is also not a determinative test, just a potentially relevant circumstance in some 
cases.
I think in deciding s28 (3) and what was just and equitable in Mr Hs case, the court 
would, as it did in Adams v Options, look at all the circumstances in the round.
For the reasons I set out, I think Templeton Securities ignored several red flags that 
should have reasonably alerted it that there was a strong possibility that its clients were 
being systematically put in harms way; being given the same seemingly irresponsible 
advice by a common, unknown source. As I have said, I dont think Templeton 
Securities acted reasonably when ignoring those signals of potential wrongdoing. And I 
think whilst the court would take into account it may not have had actual knowledge of 
the breach, I think, looking at the circumstances in the round, had it acted reasonably 
rather than ignore those clear warnings it would have discovered the breach on making 
reasonably enquiries around it.
Taking all this into account, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable 
to allow Templeton relief under s28. And therefore Mr H could recover his money 
under s27.
Given the above, I said that my provisional decision was that I considered it was fair and
reasonable to uphold Mr Hs complaint on either of the bases I had outlined; that is, that
Templeton Securities had failed to meet its regulatory obligation under the Principles. And
that it was likely a court would decide that Mr H could recover his money under s27. My
provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Hs complaint.
I went on to set out what I thought was fair compensation.I then asked both parties to provide any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me
to consider before I made my final decision.
Alexander David Securities Limited responded to say, in summary that it thought the
provisional decision missed fundamental issues and had failed to take fully into account:
Previous Financial Ombudsman Service rulings. 
The FCA had conducted a thorough investigation into TS Capital in regard to  
Eligere and Emmit including a full review of all telephone calls and e-mails. The 
FCA had dropped the investigation as it decided there was no case to answer. No 
wrong-doing was found.
    TS Capital had accepted and undertook the instruction for the transaction on an 
execution only basis. It hadnt agreed to provide advisory services as per clause 
3.2 in its terms and conditions.
    The trade instructions came via a regulated pension provider. The account was a 
trust account opened by a regulated SIPP provider. Mr H was the beneficiary with 
powers to undertake transactions. At the time of Mr Hs instruction, it wasnt 
unreasonable for TS Capital to accept the instruction and to conclude that it was 
an ordinary transaction(s) for investments listed on recognised exchanges.
    The terminology in the instruction wasnt necessarily technical for someone who had 
previously made any direct stock market investment. The nature of the instruction 
wasnt in itself, or in a series, necessarily unusual, given the account was opened 
with it by a regulated firm and clients could and did obtain and undertake investment 
research through a variety of mediums. This included web and internet forums, tip 
services etc. At the point of the transaction it was unaware of any issues with the 
investments.
    It became aware of general market concerns in September 2014, and acting 
reasonably it sent a letter to Mr H on 14 September 2014 to raise awareness as to 
the potential suitability of the transaction. It thought this was the date any fair and 
reasonable award should be calculated as Mr H had a duty to mitigate any loss. Mr 
H could have sold the shares before they were suspended.
    TS Capital wasnt aware of the payment of £3,000. It said this was a pension 
liberation attempt, and Mr Hs version of events surrounding the payment wasnt 
consistent with the known facts surrounding this issue as highlighted by the FCAs 
alert in October 2014. It said the key trigger of the scam was a promise of a 
cashback. It thought this was the motivation for Mr H to transfer and subsequently 
send specific instructions to buy the shares in question. It thought the ability to 
liberate some of his pension savings prior to the date he was allowed to access his 
pension was the most likely reason for the investments.
The facts in the court case Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (formerly 
Options Sipp UK LLP and Carey Pensions) were entirely distinguishable from the 
subject matter of Mr Hs claim. Mr H had approached TS Capital directly, and TS 
Capital had no arrangement in place with any person who may have advised Mr H 
beforehand.
    It didnt accept that relief should not be provided under s28 (3). It said the 
introduction(s) all came directly from a regulated pension provider, they were 
technically the account holder and Mr H a beneficiary. It didnt believe that it was unreasonable to undertake and accept the specific execution only instructions 
from Mr H or the other clients at that time. Or for TS Capital to be unaware that an 
unregulated entity was contravening the general prohibition at the point the 
instruction was received and the investment was made.
Mr H replied to say that he had nothing further to add.
We asked Alexander David to provide further details about the investigation that it said had 
been carried out by the FCA. It sent a copy of a letter that the FCA had sent to Alexander 
David Securities dated 12 November 2014. The letter said the FCA had appointed 
investigators to conduct an investigation into whether offences under section 89 of the 
Financial Services Act 2012; and or behaviour amounting to market abuse as defined in 
section 118 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) may have occurred. 
The letter went on to request various records from the firm relating to trades in Emmit Plc, 
along with other trading records from certain account holders and account documentation 
from certain SIPP providers.
Our investigator contacted the firm to say that I had looked at the FCAs letter dated 12 
November 2014, but I didnt think the letter changed my provisional decision, as the FCA 
were investigating a different matter. The investigator explained that we were investigating 
the specific complaint made by Mr H, and whether Templeton Securities (Alexander David) 
had met its obligations in its dealings with him. The investigator explained I would consider 
any further evidence or arguments about this issue if it could provide more details. 
No further evidence or arguments have been provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from my provisional decision to uphold Mr 
Hs complaint.
In respect of the further evidence and arguments made by the firm:
The response to the provisional decision referred to TS Capital. The firm was 
trading as Templeton Securities Limited at the time of the event that the complaint 
is about. Ive taken the references to TS Capital as appropriately referring to 
Templeton Securities Limited at the relevant time. 
Alexander David has said my provisional decision didnt take into account previous 
Financial Ombudsman Service rulings. It didnt say which rulings, but Im aware 
that on other cases it has referred to assessments issued by our adjudicators. An 
adjudicators role is to try and resolve cases on an informal basis on the facts as 
they understood them. Im not bound by what an adjudicator decides, and Ive 
made my decision on the basis of what I consider are all the relevant 
circumstances to decide what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
We asked Alexander David for further details about the FCAs investigation, but, 
other than the FCAs letter dated 12 November 2014 as referred to above, no 
further details were provided. As I set out above, I considered the contents of the 
letter, but didnt think it changed my provisional decision. My decision considers the firms obligation in its dealings with Mr H, including its obligations when he bought 
shares in Eligere, which dont appear to be part of this particular FCA investigation. 
    As I explained in my provisional decision, I accept that Templeton Securities 
undertook the instruction for the transaction on an execution only basis. However I 
dont think Templeton Securities wider obligations were diluted because the 
regulated SIPP Provider was technically the account owner; this wasnt unusual, 
and the instruction to invest came directly from Mr H. Ive seen no evidence to  
suggest that the SIPP provider was involved in the instructions to invest. 
    I accept that the terminology in the instruction may not necessarily have been 
technical for someone who had previously made direct stock market investment. 
And that investors can obtain tips/do their own research from the variety of mediums 
mentioned by Templeton. So it might receive a number of orders for a particular 
investment at around the same time. But the situation here was that a series of e- 
mails were all sent to the same specific person, with near identical technical 
wording, giving very specific instructions to invest in particular niche shares. I think 
this suggested there was likely to be a single source behind the instructions. And 
that its clients were being systematically advised by a third party to buy these 
shares, and on how to go about it. For the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision, I think the series of e-mails should have alerted Templeton Securities that 
something unusual might be going on, and ought to have been a trigger for it to 
intervene in the normal processing of Mr Hs instruction and take a closer look 
behind it. And having done so it would have identified the role of the unregulated 
firm(s). 
    Templeton Securities letter to Mr H headed Appropriateness of your Investment  
Emmit was dated 30 May 2014  so sent only a few days he had invested (rather 
than in September 2014).  And some time before it has said it became aware of 
general market concerns (around September 2014) about these shares.The letter 
wasnt related to Mr Hs investment in Eligere. And for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I dont think the content of the letter was such that Mr H ought 
to have sold the shares (in Emmit or Eligere), or that he acted unreasonably by not 
selling them. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to say that compensation should 
be calculated on the basis that Mr H should have sold his shares following receipt of 
that letter. 
    I accept the payment of £3,000 may not have been known to Templeton when it 
processed the instruction. I dont think this was a pension liberation attempt as such, 
but as I said in my provisional decision, I recognise that the unregulated firms were 
driving the transaction, and the cash sum of £3,000 would have been a motivating 
factor for Mr H. However I think irrespective of the motivation behind it, if Templeton 
Securities had intervened in the processing, and said it wouldnt process Mr Hs 
instruction, Mr H would have had to re-assess his options. And for the reasons I set 
out in my provisional decision, I dont think he would have gone on to invest in 
Emmit or Eligere.
    As I explained in my provisional decision, in deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the FCAs 
Handbook to take into account, amongst other things, relevant law and regulations. 
Although the facts of Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP might be 
different, Ive considered the courts findings in the context of the facts of this case, 
and I think they are relevant. For the reasons I set out above and in my provisional 
decision, I think Templeton Securities ought to have been alerted there was something unusual going on, and made further enquiries about the investment 
instructions. And on doing so it would have identified it was likely an unregulated 
firm was breaching the general prohibition. For the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision, I dont think a court would find it was just and equitable to allow 
Templeton Securities relief under s28 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000. And find that Mr H could recover his money under s27.
Putting things right
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr H as close as possible 
to the position he would probably now be in if Templeton Securities had not agreed to 
purchase the shares for Mr Hs account.
If it had done so I think Mr H, having already completed the switch of his pension to the 
SIPP, would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should Alexander David Securities Limited do?
To compensate Mr H fairly Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation 
is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Limited should pay into Mr H's pension 
plan, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander 
David Securities Limited shouldnt pay the compensation if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's 
pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
I think Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age. So the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
In addition, Alexander David Securities Limited should:
Pay Mr H £400 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the 
loss of over £46,000, almost his entire pension, has caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David 
Securities Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much it has 
taken off. It should also give Mr H a tax deduction certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
The deduction of £3,000 reflects the payment that was made to Mr H and which he has 
had use of.
actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the 
open market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David 
Securities Limited should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider.
This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Limited is unable to purchase the investment the actual 
value should be assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Alexander David 
Securities Limited may wish to require that Mr H provides an undertaking to pay it any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for 
any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
Alexander David Securities Limited will need to meet any costs in drawing up the investmentBenchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional 
interest
The amounts 
invested in 
Eligere 
(£23,374.50)
and Emmit 
(£23,374.50)
 including 
charges, less a 
deduction of 
£3,000  divided 
equally - so
£1,500 from 
each.FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index;The date 
of   
purchase 
of each 
shareDate of 
this final 
decision8% simple a 
year from date
of this final decision 
to date of
settlement if 
settlement isnt 
made within 28 
days of 
Alexander 
David being 
notified of
Mr Hs 
acceptance of 
this decisionundertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I dont know exactly how Mr H would have invested. Mr H had indicated he was willing to 
take a medium to medium/high degree of risk. But it appears this was largely driven by the 
unregulated firm. Mr H had already switched his money to the pension. I think if 
Templeton had refused to accept Mr Hs instructions he could have sought suitable advice 
from it on how to invest his pension. Given his particular circumstances and apparent 
modest financial provision, I think he would have been advised to invest at medium risk  
at most.
I think the index I have outlined above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable 
proxy for the degree of risk I think its likely that Mr H would have been recommended 
and he would have agreed to take.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
My final decision
My final decision is that I think it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Hs complaint on either 
of the bases I have outlined above; that is, that Templeton Securities failed to meet its 
regulatory obligation under the Principles. And that its likely a court would decide that Mr H 
could recover his money under s27.
Accordingly, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Ltd to calculate and pay compensation to Mr H as I have
set out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman