DRN-1044402
complaint
Mrs S complains that Firstplus Financial Group Plc failed to take seriously her concerns that 
her signature was forged on a secured loan, and then transferred the loan account 
elsewhere.
background
In 2006, Firstplus granted Mrs S and her ex-partner (who Ill call Mr W) a joint loan secured 
against their jointly owned property. 
In July 2015, Mrs S told Firstplus that Mr W had forged her signature when applying for the 
loan. She wanted Firstplus to put a hold on the account. Firstplus asked for further 
information before it would consider this, and so Mrs S sent Firstplus various documents to 
support her allegation.
In September 2015, Mrs S contacted Firstplus for an update on the matter. She was told that 
Firstplus had lost the documents shed sent it. Firstplus apologised and gave her £100 
compensation for this. Mrs S resent the documents.
Later in 2015, Mr W was charged with a number of offences, including fraud. Mrs S advised 
Firstplus of this in November 2015. Firstplus agreed to keep the account on hold until the 
court hearing. It said that it would consider the matter again after the hearing. 
In December 2015, Firstplus transferred the loan to another financial business. Mrs S has 
brought a complaint to us about that financial business handling of the matter, which Ive 
considered in a separate decision. However, shes also complained that Firstplus didnt take 
her concerns seriously when she reported the fraud in July 2015, and that it then transferred 
the loan account. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He didnt think Firstplus had 
done anything wrong by putting its fraud investigation on hold until the court hearing. 
However, he accepted that Firstplus had caused Mrs S some inconvenience when it lost the 
documents shed sent it, but he thought the £100 compensation it had given Mrs S was 
reasonable. 
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Firstplus transferred Mrs Ss loan to another financial business in December 2015. Ive 
therefore only considered what happened before this date. However, I think its important to 
acknowledge that its since been accepted that Mrs S was the victim of fraud.Mrs S says that Firstplus didnt take her concerns seriously when she told it shed been a 
victim of fraud.
When Mrs S initially told Firstplus that Mr W had forged her signature when taking out the 
loan, Firstplus asked for more information so that it could consider the matter. It asked her 
for a crime reference number, a detailed account of what happened, and a copy of her 
identification. 
Mrs S sent Firstplus the requested information in July 2015. Unfortunately, this information 
was lost. This only came to light in September 2015 when Mrs S called Firstplus to find out 
what was happening with its investigation. 
Firstplus apologised for losing Mrs Ss documents, and sent her £100 compensation. I think 
this was a reasonable response. 
In November 2015, Mrs S told Firstplus that Mr W had been charged with fraud by the police 
and the matter would be considered in court. Firstplus decided to put the account on hold 
until the court case. However, before the court case took place, Firstplus transferred the loan 
account to another company. 
Overall, I think Firstplus acted reasonably after Mrs S told it shed been the victim of fraud. It 
asked for more information so that it could consider the matter. However, it then learnt that 
Mr W had been charged with fraud and the matter was going to court. I think it was 
reasonable for Firstplus to place the account on hold and delay making any findings in 
respect of the fraud allegation until the outcome of the court case. 
I think Firstplus did cause Mrs S some inconvenience when it lost the documents shed sent 
it. But like the investigator, I think the £100 compensation Firstplus paid Mrs S for this was 
reasonable. 
Mrs S has also said shes unhappy that Firstplus transferred the loan account to another 
financial business. She thinks this hindered the fraud investigation. 
Whilst I can appreciate Mrs Ss frustration, this was a commercial decision which Firstplus 
was entitled to make. And as Ive said, Ive considered Mrs Ss concerns about the other 
financial business handling of the matter in a separate decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
 
 
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman