DRN-2158788
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about the amount of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC has paid him for 
the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) on a loan.
What happened
Mr P took out a loan for £6,000 with Lloyds in February 2007. At that time, Lloyds also sold 
him a single premium PPI policy costing £2,028.52 to protect the repayments on his loan. 
The PPI premium was added to the loan and therefore attracted interest. 
In 2015, Lloyds upheld a complaint by Mr P that the PPI policy attached to his loan had been 
mis-sold. It offered Mr P £2,892.31 to compensate him for this sale. 
Mr P wasnt satisfied that Lloyds had calculated the offer it had made him correctly. He 
thought he should have been offered more because Lloyds hadnt taken proper account of 
the interest hed been charged on the PPI policy through it having been added to his loan.
Our adjudicator said he thought Lloyds compensation offer had been calculated in the way 
he would have expected it to be and was fair. Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicators view. 
He said he still thought that Lloyds hadnt fully compensated him for the compound interest 
and commission which hed been charged for the PPI policy because it had been added 
upfront to his loan.
As Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicators view, this case has been passed to me to look at 
his complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Lloyds has already agreed to uphold Mr Ps complaint about the PPI being mis-sold, in 
this decision Im not looking at how the policy came to be sold. I am only looking at whether 
the offer Lloyds made was fair.
When a complaint about the mis-sale of a PPI policy is upheld we expect the business, as 
far as is possible, to put the consumer in the position they would have been in if the policy 
had never been sold to them. 
In the case of the sale of a single premium policy, like this one, which has been added to a 
loan, this would normally involve the business refunding that proportion of any loan 
payments which the consumer has made that relates to the PPI element of the loan. This 
will, therefore, include the interest that has been charged on the PPI element of the loan. We 
would also expect the business to pay 8% simple interest for the time that the consumer has 
been out of pocket because of payments made relating to the PPI policy.
Where, as is the case here, the loan was settled early, we would also expect the business to 
refund any additional amounts the consumer had to pay the business to do this because the 
PPI premium was added to the loan and interest was charged on it. This element of the 
refund is calculated taking account of any rebate of the PPI premium the consumer received 
at the time of the early settlement. Again, we would also expect the business to pay 8% 
simple interest for the time that the consumer has been out of pocket because of the 
additional amount he had to pay to redeem his loan early which related to the PPI policy.
Having calculated the amount of compensation due to the consumer as detailed above, the 
business is then required to deduct tax from that element of its offer which constitutes simple 
interest at 8%.
Lloyds has provided a detailed breakdown of the offer which it made to Mr P in 2015. And 
having carefully reviewed this, Im satisfied from what Ive seen that the offer has been 
calculated in the way in which I would have expected and that it is fair.
Ive thought about what Mr Ps representative has said about Lloyds offer not having 
properly accounted for the compound interest and commission Mr P has been charged on 
his single premium PPI. But I think Mr Ps representative is mistaken in what he has said. Im 
satisfied that the way in which Lloyds has calculated the offer takes full account of this 
compound interest and that this has been included in addition to the simple interest it has 
also offered him for the time he has been out of pocket. Im also satisfied that any 
commission Mr P may have borne in relation to this mis-sale has been fully refunded in the 
offer he has already received from Lloyds.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I think what Lloyds PLC offered in compensation to Mr P to 
settle his complaint about mis-sold PPI was fair. I understand that Mr P has already received 
payment of this offer, so Im not telling Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman