DRN-3608749
The complaint
Mr A complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of his furniture warranty claim.
What happened
Mr A owned two recliner chairs. In December 2020, he made a claim under his furniture 
warranty after the chairs experienced structural damage. Amtrust accepted the claim. 
Due to the cost of repairs, Amtrust offered Mr A the option of replacement chairs, or a cash 
settlement of £583.28. Mr A said he would accept replacements. 
Amtrust advised Mr A he would receive the chairs in July 2021. In June 2021, Mr A received 
two chairs from the retailer, but they were the wrong colour, so they were returned. Mr A was 
advised by the retailer that the correct chairs would be delivered in October 2021. This was 
then moved back to November 2021, and then to January 2022. 
However, by mid-January 2022 Mr A still hadnt received the chairs. By this point, Mr A 
decided to purchase two new chairs elsewhere. He told Amtrust he wanted to cancel the 
delivery of the chairs, and accept the cash offer of £583.28. 
In February 2022, Amtrust said the retailer wouldnt refund the money it had paid for the 
chairs, and that the chairs were available for delivery. However, it offered Mr A £100 
compensation for the inconvenience he had experienced. Unhappy with this, Mr A brought a 
complaint to this service.
 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought it hadnt been 
unreasonable for Mr A to replace the chairs himself, due to the delays. She recommended 
that Amtrust pay Mr A the previous cash settlement offered of £583.28. However, she 
thought Amtrusts offer of £100 for the inconvenience was fair.
Amtrust didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
If a repair cannot be achieved, we may choose to replace the damaged part. In the event of 
this not being possible, [Amtrust] may at its sole discretion provide a replacement product(s). 
Alternatively, [Amtrust] may at its sole discretion settle the claim by a cash payment instead 
of a repair or replacement. Any cash settlement will be limited to the equivalent cost of repair 
or replacement by [Amtrust].
It seems a repair could have been carried out, but due to the cost of this, Amtrust offered 
Mr A two alternatives  replacement chairs, or for him to keep the damaged chairs and 
accept a cash settlement of £583.28. I see that the figure of £583.28 was based on the cost 
to Amtrust of the two replacement chairs. I think Amtrusts offer was reasonable. 
Unfortunately, there were significant delays in replacing the chairs. Mr A was initially given a 
delivery timescale of 14 weeks by Amtrust, but this was then delayed several times by the 
retailer. I understand the delays were caused by the manufacturer. The retailer also made an 
error by sending the wrong chairs to Mr A. 
 
I appreciate that this wasnt Amtrusts fault, as the delay was outside its control. However, 
when it became apparent that the chairs couldnt be delivered to Mr A within a reasonable 
timeframe, I wouldve expected Amtrust to have given Mr A the option to still accept the cash 
settlement, and taken up the delay with the retailer itself. It wasnt reasonable to expect Mr A 
to wait over a year for the chairs. 
I therefore require Amtrust to pay Mr A £583.28 plus interest. As I appreciate Amtrust wasnt 
responsible for the delay past the initial expected delivery date of 2 July 2021, I only require 
Amtrust to pay interest from this date. 
I think Mr A was caused inconvenience by the matter, but Im satisfied the £100 Amtrust has 
offered is reasonable compensation in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Amtrust Europe Limited to pay Mr A 
£583.28. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from 2 July 2021 to 
the date of settlement.
I also require Amtrust to pay Mr A £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused, if this 
hasnt already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman