DRN-3259600
The complaint
Ms M complains that J D Williams & Company Limited, trading as Fashion World 
irresponsibly gave her a running account credit facility she couldnt afford. 
What happened
In April 2018, Ms M applied for a catalogue shopping account with J D Williams. She was 
given an initial credit limit of £150. The limit was increased a further 11 times until it reached 
£2,800 in July 2020.
Ms M complained to to say that the credit had been unaffordable to her and J D Williams 
would have seen this if they had completed reasonable affordability checks. After looking 
into the complaint, J D Williams didnt agree. It said that its checks hadnt shown any signs 
that Ms M might not be able to afford the credit and she had continued to manage the 
account well. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. He said that when J D Williams 
increased the credit limit to £500 in July 2018, it ought to have found out more about Ms Ms 
financial circumstances. He considered that had it done so, it would have likely seen that 
increasing the limit to £500 and beyond would have likely been unaffordable and 
unsustainable for Ms M. He therefore recommended J D Williams refund all interest and 
charges it had applied on balances above a credit limit of £350. 
J D Williams didnt agree. In summary, it said that its own data suggested that Ms Ms 
income was higher than was suggested by the adjudicator and the external checks it 
completed showed no sign of financial difficulties. Further, it said that Ms M had managed 
the account well and had never informed them she was struggling to repay. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
In summary, J D Williams should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. What would be 
considered proportionate will vary in each case. Generally I would expect more thorough 
checks to have been completed the higher the amount of credit being advanced, the greater 
the regular repayments, the lower the consumers income and the longer the consumer had 
been indebted without making significant strides to reducing the outstanding balance.
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable and therefore it would be irresponsible to 
grant further credit.
Our adjudicator explained in some detail why they didnt think J D Williams acted unfairly in 
providing the initial credit limit and subsequent increases up to £350. Neither party appears 
to have disagreed with those findings and for completeness, Im also satisfied that 
J D Williams didnt make an unfair lending decision in relation to those. This is because I 
dont think that proportionate checks would have likely shown that Ms M couldnt afford the 
borrowing.
The limit was increased to £500 in July 2018. At this stage I dont think J D Williams 
completed proportionate affordability checks. By this point I think it should have tried to 
establish what Ms Ms income was. I say this because from what Ive seen, Ms M had taken 
out at least three other running account credit facilities in addition to this one at around the 
time the J D Williams account was opened. As J D Williams was now proposing to increase 
her credit limit for the third time in as many months, and it was aware she had other similar, 
new credit commitments, it ought to have done more to establish that any further credit 
would be affordable to her. Without having any understanding of what her income was, I fail 
to see how it could possibly have done that in a satisfactory way. 
Ms M has shown us that at the time she was earning on average less than £500 per month. 
Im satisfied that had J D Williams asked her or sought to verify that information in some 
way, this is what it would likely have discovered too. It seems therefore that proportionate 
checks in July 2018 would have shown that Ms M was required to service four separate 
running credit accounts as well as a mobile phone contract (of around £45 per month) out of 
regular income that rarely exceeded £500 per month. This is because I think these would 
likely have been evident in any credit check J D Williams completed. 
Ive noted that Ms M was also paying a regular sum of money to a debt collector. From the 
information J D Williams has provided it appears Ms M had a historic default on her credit file 
around three years prior to entering into this agreement. It seems likely therefore these 
payments to the debt collector were going towards that default. Given the default was 
showing on J D Williams checks at the time, it would also have likely seen there was still an 
outstanding balance that Ms M was regularly paying towards. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think proportionate affordability checks in July 2018 
ought to have made it clear to J D Williams that Ms M was already likely to be over 
committed each month based on her very modest income. After taking into account 
sustainable repayments towards her creditors, it would have left her with very little towards 
essential living costs. I therefore think J D Williams acted unfairly in increasing her credit limit 
beyond £350. 
I note J D Williams says that Ms M has continued to meet her repayments on the account 
and her balance has increased significantly since. While she has made the majority of her 
payments on time, its clear from the information Ive seen that Ms M continued to borrow 
further sums of money from other creditors in order to pay J D Williams and other lenders. 
Further, the fact Ms Ms balance has simply continued to increase (and significantly so) with 
her making no meaningful in roads into reducing the balance only serves to highlight that 
she hasnt been able to afford to repay the credit in a sustainable way.  
Putting things right
As I dont think J D Williams should have increased Ms Ms credit limit to £500 in July 2018, 
it should now:Rework Ms Ms account to ensure that from July 2018 onwards, interest is only 
charged on balances up to a credit limit of £350, including any buy now pay later 
interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no 
further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late payment and over 
limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments have been 
made J D Williams should contact Ms M to arrange an affordable repayment plan for 
this account. Once Ms M has repaid the outstanding balance, it should remove any 
adverse information recorded on Ms Ms credit file from July 2018 onwards.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Ms M, along with 8% simple interest per year on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. J D Williams 
should also remove any adverse information from Ms Ms credit file from July 2018 
onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. 
J D Williams must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct J D Williams & Company 
Limited, trading as Fashion World to put things right in the manner Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman