DRN-2454240
The complaint
Mr T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to compensate him 
adequately following the loss of a credit card sent to him and the ongoing issues it caused.
What happened
Mr T was sent a replacement credit card by NatWest, on its arrival the envelope was 
damaged, with the credit card missing and a covering note from the mail provider stating,  it 
was damaged before it was received in the UK and the credit card had been fraudulently 
used. Mr T says NatWest staff were rude and unhelpful when dealing with the problems he 
had faced. Mr T says this was frustrating and very time consuming and NatWest failed to 
grasp the extent of his concerns about the security risks posed by sending the card with his 
personal information in the correspondence. Mr T is asking for a compensation payment to 
be made as a result. 
NatWest says they have listened to the various phone call recordings and there is no 
evidence of their staff being rude or unhelpful. They say the envelope contained the 
standard information sent to all customers and it was intact when sent by them, but if Mr T 
wanted to conceal his gender in future correspondence, that could be arranged if he wished. 
NatWest say they have refunded any fraudulent transactions on his card, so he hasnt been 
subject to any financial loss. NatWest dont feel a compensation payment is warranted, as 
they have acted correctly. 
Mr T wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the information available and listened to numerous telephone 
recordings but didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator felt NatWest had acted 
professionally when dealing with Mr Ts issues. The investigator didnt feel NatWest could be 
held responsible for the damaged caused to the envelope containing the credit card whilst in 
the postal system. He also took the view the personal details contained in the covering letter 
was industry wide and whilst the card was used fraudulently these transactions have been 
refunded. The investigator felt while he understood Mr Ts frustrations and distress, he didnt 
feel NatWest had done anything wrong and therefore a compensation payment wasnt 
warranted.
Mr T wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be sent to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
Its worth saying it is understandable when a personal credit card goes missing in the post it 
will cause upset, distress and frustration for consumers, like Mr T, and I fully accept that. 
When looking at this case I have considered whether NatWest were responsible for the 
damaged letter containing Mr Ts replacement credit card and if they have acted 
unreasonably or unfairly when dealing with the issues that presented itself as a result. 
What happened here was Mr T was sent a replacement credit card in the post, the envelope 
on arrival was damaged and the credit card was missing. Mr T says the envelope contained 
a note from the mail provider stating it was damaged before it was received in the UK. Mr T 
says the covering letter contained sensitive information about him, including his card limit, 
address and gender details adding to the risk of identity fraud. The remaining part of Mr Ts 
complaint centres around his treatment by the various members of NatWest staff and the 
time it took them, when trying to sort out the problem and subsequently how they dealt with 
his complaint about all of this. 
Looking at the different aspects of Mr Ts complaint to this service, his initial concern 
suggests NatWest were responsible for the fact the credit card went missing in the first place 
and the envelope containing the replacement arrived in a damaged state. Mr T says the 
envelope contained a note from the mail provider saying,  it was damaged before it was 
received in the UK, as his reasoning behind this. While I accept the envelope may have 
contained this note thats not to say it was as a result of NatWest sending it in a damaged 
state - this could have happened whilst in transit or during the postal sorting process. 
NatWest says all cards are dispatched within the UK and would be sealed before sending 
and therefore this isnt consistent with the note Mr T received from the mail provider. I 
understand Mr T has made a separate complaint to the mail provider regarding this. On 
balance, I am satisfied there is no evidence to support NatWest would have sent Mr Ts 
credit card in a damaged state and while it would be upsetting for Mr T to receive this, I cant 
hold NatWest responsible for that or the fact it was subsequently used fraudulently. That 
said, NatWest should refund any fraudulent activity on Mr Ts account as a result of the card 
going missing, where its clear he didnt authorise those payments and that is what 
happened here.
Mr T was also unhappy he wasnt automatically sent a new Personal Identification Number 
(PIN) when he reported the missing credit card, but I am satisfied it has been explained to 
Mr T this isnt part of NatWests process as his PIN wasnt compromised and he could 
change his PIN at any of NatWests cash machines. I understand a new PIN was ordered 
and sent to him after he complained about this though, which I think is a fair step. 
Mr T also raised a concern about the information contained in the accompanying letter with 
the replacement credit card as he felt it violated his data privacy . To support his concerns, 
Mr T says the letter contained his address and full credit card details. While I understand Mr 
Ts point here, this is NatWests standard letter when sending out credit cards to its 
customers and contains information similar to other providers in the industry in which it 
operates. Its not my role to tell NatWest or any bank what their correspondence contains, 
although I was pleased to see they have offered Mr T the opportunity to amend the 
salutation on future correspondence, so his gender isnt identifiable, if he so wishes. 
The remaining part of Mr Ts complaint concerns the failings and his treatment by members 
of NatWests staff when trying to sort out the issue of his missing replacement credit card 
and subsequently how they dealt with his complaint about the service he received during this 
time. 
Its important to say, in the event of a missing credit card and any subsequent fraud linked to 
this, it can involve a good degree of investigation by a bank into what happened. These 
matters often arent straightforward, so its rarely a situation with an immediate resolution. In this case Mr T refers to a number of staff members who he believed mis-understood the 
seriousness of his problem and were unhelpful and rude in the process. I have, like the 
investigator, listened to various telephone recordings and from what I have heard I couldnt 
hear any evidence of the staff being rude, discriminatory or unhelpful as Mr T suggests. 
While I can see Mr T was on the telephone on occasions for quite some time, that seems to 
have been a mixture of the time it would usually take to explore these issues and NatWest 
listening to Mr Ts explanation of his issues. I dont think these calls were excessively long 
given the circumstances here. Its also worth mentioning, that while I understand how 
worrying and frustrating this situation will have been for Mr T, NatWest explained they were 
looking into his complaint which would have taken some time for them to resolve. So, while 
Mr T clearly felt he needed to continue to call NatWest and talk to more senior managers, I 
am satisfied NatWest explained the situation to him and told him that they were looking into 
things. Having listened to calls and looking at NatWests response letter, from an impartial 
position, I am satisfied the staff acted professionally and showed empathy to Mr Ts 
situation.  
No one is doubting that this would have been a stressful and frustrating time for Mr T, but 
from the information I have seen, I cant hold NatWest responsible for this or the initial loss 
of the credit card and the resulting problems it subsequently caused for Mr T. Where there 
have been problems, I consider that NatWest has dealt with these as quickly as they could 
have and that they communicated with Mr T appropriately and fairly in doing so. 
While Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, it follows I wont be asking anymore of 
NatWest here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman