DRN-2794230
The complaint
Mr D complains about the way that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros 
y Reaseguros, S.A. handled a cancellation claim he made on his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which was underwritten by Mapfre. He 
was due to travel on a package holiday abroad on 23 March 2020.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, on 15 March 2020, Mr Ds holiday provider 
let him know that the resort he was travelling to had closed. Mr Ds holiday was therefore 
cancelled. So Mr D made a cancellation claim for the costs associated with cancelling his 
trip. He told Mapfre his travel provider had offered him a credit voucher for the costs of his 
trip, but that he didnt want to take up this option.
Mapfre looked into Mr Ds claim. It told him that in order to consider it, Mr D would need to 
provide it with a cancellation invoice. However, Mr D said he wasnt able to provide this 
information. So the claim didnt progress.
Mr D complained about the delays in handling his claim, but he didnt get a response from 
Mapfre. In the meantime, he received a full refund of his trip costs from his travel provider. 
But he asked us to look into his complaint about the way Mapfre had dealt with his claim. He 
felt it would be fair for it to refund the premium hed paid for the policy.
Mapfre ultimately offered to pay Mr D £75 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator thought Mapfres offer was fair and reasonable. He thought Mapfre had 
been entitled to evidence to show that Mr D hadnt received any refund from his travel 
provider. But he acknowledged thered been delays in the handling of the claim. So he 
thought that a total of £75 to recognise both Mr Ds trouble and upset and a refund of 
premium hed paid for cover fairly resolved the complaint.
Mr D didnt think the offer was fair  he didnt think Mapfre shouldve been able to use Covid-
19 as an excuse for the way itd handled his claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Mapfres offer is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered the terms of Mr Ds policy and the circumstances of his claim to decide 
whether Mapfre handled it fairly.
Was it fair for Mapfre to ask Mr D for further information?
Mr D first got in touch with Mapfre to make a claim on 1 April 2020. Mapfre sent Mr D a claim 
form, which he completed and sent back a couple of days later. Mapfre wrote to Mr D on 1 
June 2020 to let him know it needed a cancellation invoice in order to progress the claim. Mr 
D told Mapfre he wasnt able to provide this information though. So the claim wasnt 
progressed because Mapfre said it required this information before it could look further into 
the claim. Ive considered then whether it was fair and reasonable for Mapfre to refuse to pay 
the claim until itd received this evidence.
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ds policy, as these form the basis of his 
contract with Mapfre. Ive first considered Mapfres Claim conditions. One of these says:
You or Your legal representatives must supply at Your own expense all information, 
evidence, details of household insurance and medical certificates as required by Us. 
So I think the terms of Mr Ds contract make it clear that Mapfre is entitled to ask for 
information and evidence it feels is necessary to consider a claim. Its also a fundamental 
principle of insurance that its a policyholders responsibility to show they have a valid claim 
on their policy. In this case, Mr D was making a cancellation claim. Ive looked at what the 
cancellation section of the policy covers to help me decide whether Im satisfied Mapfre 
reasonably required further information before it could consider the claim. It says:
We will pay You, up to the amount shown in the Policy Schedule, for any irrecoverable 
unused travel and accommodation costs and other pre-paid charges (including sports, 
concert and entertainment tickets) which You have paid or are contracted to pay together 
with any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred. (Bold is my emphasis).
Mapfre only covers irrecoverable costs. So before it was in a position to consider Mr Ds 
claim, I think it was entitled to be satisfied that his loss was irrecoverable. A cancellation 
invoice from Mr Ds travel provider wouldve likely set out his irrecoverable cancellation costs 
and any applicable refund hed received. This wouldve allowed Mapfre to calculate any 
potential liability under the policy. Id also add that a cancellation invoice is a standard 
document and it isnt unusual for insurers to request this evidence.
With that said though, I can see from Mr Ds booking invoice that hed booked travel, 
accommodation, transfers and a ski pass through his travel provider. This was sent to 
Mapfre as part of Mr Ds claim. Generally, a package holiday would be considered to be a 
holiday contract that includes two or more travel services, which are combined for the 
purposes of the same trip. The travel provider is liable for the performance of these services. 
So I think it ought to have been clear to Mapfre that Mr D had potentially booked a package 
holiday. 
The Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) provide 
protection for consumers who buy package holidays. Effectively, they say that the travel 
provider is responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which cant be provided. So I 
think it wouldve been reasonable for Mapfre to direct Mr D to try and recover his costs from 
his travel provide upfront. If itd done so, Mr D mightve been able to get those costs back 
sooner.
Its also clear that there were some delays in Mapfre dealing with Mr Ds claim. I dont doubt 
that this caused Mr D some inconvenience and frustration. So I think its right for Mapfre to 
recognise the impact this had on him. I also appreciate that Mr D feels it would be fair for 
Mapfre to refund the premium he paid for cover  a total of £48.49. Mapfre has offered to 
pay Mr D £75 overall to recognise the way it handled the claim. Ive borne in mind the unique 
challenges Covid-19 posed to travel insurers and the fact Mr D benefited from his policy for 
the full policy year. Mapfre had been covering the cancellation of Mr Ds holiday (and any others hed booked during the policy year) for around seven months at the time of claim. So 
in these circumstances, I think £75 is a fair sum both to reflect Mr Ds inconvenience and to 
represent a pro-rata refund of his premium (which is what I might ordinarily ask Mapfre to 
refund to Mr D). So this is what Im directing Mapfre to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Mapfres offer of £75 is fair.  
I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A.to pay Mr 
D £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman