DRN-2487131
The complaint
Mr W complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
 
What happened
Mr W was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. The 
contract was due to expire on 28 April 2020.
Collection of the car was delayed because of lockdown. It was agreed that until collection 
could be arranged the car would be SORN with DVLA and remain parked on Mr Ws 
driveway.
The car was inspected and collected in June 2020. Mr W says that when the inspector 
discussed the charges with him, he expressed surprise at seeing a charge for a key, 
because both keys had been handed back in working order. Mr W says that the diagnostic 
on the cars system had generated an error message to say that one of the keys wasnt 
working. The inspector made a note and told Mr W he could dispute the charge.
Mr W received an invoice from MBFS which included a charge for the key. He disputed the 
charge. In response, MBFS said it wasnt upholding the complaint because the key was 
noted by the inspector as not working at the time of the inspection.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said it wasnt possible to say, from the 
information provided, whether the key was tested or whether it was noted as faulty on the 
basis of the error message stored on the cars diagnostic. She also said there wasnt any 
information on whether the fault could be fixed, as an alternative to replacing the key. The 
investigator said she wasnt persuaded that Mr W should be charged for a replacement key 
and said the charges should be removed.
MBFS didnt agree. It said there was no reason for the inspector to record that the key 
wasnt working if it was. It also said it was Mr Ws obligation to ensure that both keys were 
returned in full working order. MBFS provided a condition report which it said clearly stated 
the inspectors findings at the point of inspection. It also said the fault key was deactivated at 
the depot and couldnt be reactivated which was why a replacement key was charged.
Our investigator reviewed everything and changed her view. She said that based on the 
further information provided by MBFS she thought that the charges for the key were fair.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed checked the keys before the car was collected and both 
were working. He also said the charge for the kay had been added automatically and had 
caused surprise to the inspector as the issue hadnt been detected on the inspection. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr W must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA. These guidelines are used 
by car finance companies to decide what damage is chargeable. Charges can be applied for 
items which are missing, such as keys and service history, as well as for items which are 
damaged or not working.
In this case, MBFS has charged for a replacement key, because it says one of the keys 
returned with the car was faulty.
Mr W says that both keys were working when the car was collected. He says that the issue 
was only identified when the cars built in diagnostic system generated an error message 
saying that one key wasnt working. Mr W says the inspector hadnt realised this until he saw 
the total charges at the end of the inspection. Mr W says that following this, he used both 
keys to lock and unlock the car and the inspector noted that he wasnt happy with the 
charges for the key.
MBFS relies on the condition report completed at the time of inspection which states that the 
key isnt working. It says it has contacted the inspector and put Mr Ws version of events to 
him, in response to which the inspector said he couldnt remember what was discussed with 
Mr W due to passage of time but  he agreed that he had noted on the report that Mr W 
wasnt happy with the charges for the key.
I can see that MBFS also asked the inspector to confirm whether the key was checked at the 
depot to make sure it wasnt just a battery which needed replacing. The collection company 
said the key wasnt working when the car was collected, and it wasnt working when the car 
reached the depot. It said the only option was to deactivate the key and replace it.
Theres a dispute between Mr W and MBFS as to whether the charge was automatically 
added. Mr W says it was, which was the reasons why the inspector was surprised. MBFS 
says that nothing is automatically added and that it is the inspector who completes the 
condition report and enters the chargeable items. I dont think it matters whether the charge 
was added automatically or not, because Mr w was made aware at the time of the inspection 
that the charge had been applied.
Ive considered all of the available information. Having done so, Im unable to say why the 
key was faulty. However, given that the cars own diagnostic system showed the key to be 
faulty, and given that the inspector recorded o the condition report that the key wasnt 
working, Im persuaded that it was more likely than not that the key wasnt working.
I dont think it matters whether it was the spare key that was faulty. Im aware that Mr W Our 
investigator reviewed everything and changed her view. She said that based on the further 
information provided by MBFS she thought that the charges for the key were fair.
Mr W didnt agree. He said hed checked the keys before the car was collected and both 
were working. He also said the charge for the kay had been added automatically and had 
caused surprise to the inspector as the issue hadnt been detected on the inspection. 
Said that he and his wife used both keys. The car was supplied with two keys and its Mr Ws 
obligation to ensure that both keys are returned in full working order.Theres no evidence that the weeks when the car was SORN had any connection to the key 
not working. If the non-use of the car had been a contributing factor, then I would have 
expected both keys to be faulty.
I appreciate that Mr W has said that both keys functioned at the inspection because they 
locked and unlocked the doors. But I cant reconcile this with the error message in the cars 
diagnostic. And I dont think the inspector would have noted a fault with the key if there 
wasnt one.
Ultimately the terms and conditions require Mr W to return two fully functioning keys. Based 
on what Ive seen, this didnt happen. I appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling about this but 
the balance of evidence suggests that the key wasnt working at the time of inspection. In the 
circumstances I dont think MBFS has acted unfairly by charging for a replacement key.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman