DRN-4331598
The complaint
Mr N complains about the sale and installation of a brand new boiler, which he paid for using 
a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano Bank AB (publ).
What happened
In early 2021, Mr N says he was contacted by a company, which Ill call A, who sold and 
installed boilers. Mr N says A told him they could replace his exiting boiler with a more 
efficient model free of charge, under a government scheme. 
A week later, A installed the boiler and Mr N says he paid a nominal fee after signing a 
document on an electronic device. Mr N also says that A didnt leave him with any 
paperwork to look at after the installation. 
Mr N says he wasnt happy with the performance of the boiler, so within a month of the 
installation, he complained to A. He says it was then he discovered that he had been given a 
fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano, to pay for the boiler and its fitting. 
Over the next few months Ikano progressed a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75). In the meantime, an engineer from the Gas Safe Register 
inspected the boiler and gave Mr N a report. The report concluded that a defect with the 
installation of the boiler wasnt to current standards. 
After starting Mr Ns section 75 claim, Ikano said they could consider quality of the boiler and 
the installation. They also said that A had offered Mr N £100 for their untidiness during the 
works. Ikano also said Mr N had signed a satisfaction note for the installation, along with 
paperwork for the fixed sum loan. They acknowledged that Mr N had asked to cancel the 
loan, but still said he was responsible for the cost of the boiler. 
Mr N didnt accept Ikanos response to his section 75 claim and made a complaint. Ikano 
didnt change their position on the claim. This led Mr N to refer his case to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ns case and found that Ikano had treated him fairly. 
She concluded that Mr N had signed the loan agreement forms and that A had made it clear 
there was a cost involved, for Mr N to pay. The investigator didnt find that the installation 
was of poor quality and said Ikanos offer to pay Mr N £100 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr N didnt agree. He reiterated that neither A nor Ikano had given him a copy of the loan 
agreement forms and that A didnt leave his house as they found it before the installation. 
The investigator didnt change her findings, so Mr Ns complaint has now been passed to me 
to make a decision.
I sent Mr N and Ikano my provisional decision on this case, on 10 August 2023. I explained 
why I think the complaint should be upheld. A copy of my provisional findings is included 
below:
Id like Mr N to know that I empathise with the difficult personal circumstances hes described 
to us. The last two years must have been a difficult time for him and I hope things have 
started to improve. 
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend 
any discourtesy by this, it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to 
decide matters quickly and with minimum formality. 
But, I want to assure Mr N and Ikano that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont 
comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
Mr Ns complaint against Ikano is twofold. Firstly, he says he was unaware that Ikano had 
provided finance for him to get a brand new boiler. And secondly, he says the installation of 
the boiler was unsatisfactory, it doesnt work as well as his previous model and that A 
caused damage to his home. So, Ive thought about each part in turn. 
The start of the fixed sum loan agreement 
Mr N has told us that he wasnt given any paperwork to keep, when the agent of A spoke to 
him about replacing his boiler. He also says he didnt have a chance to read anything on the 
electronic device, before he added his signature. Additionally, Mr N says he was told by A 
that he was eligible for the boiler and installation free of charge, because of a government 
scheme. 
Ive looked at the Contract of Sale between A and Mr N, dated 8 February 2021. This 
document outlines the make and type of the boiler, together with the total cost and proposed 
positioning in Mr Ns home. The contract carries a handwritten signature and doesnt make 
any mention of a government discount scheme. 
Ikano have also provided us with a copy of a Satisfaction Note and Declaration, dated 10 
February 2021, from their records about Mr Ns boiler installation. The Declaration also 
carries a handwritten signature and names Ikano as the finance provider. It says: 
I fully understand Im entering into a credit agreement with the Finance Lender 
named within this document. 
And 
I understand that I must pay the minimum monthly repayments set out in my credit 
agreement every month by direct debit. 
Having thought about Ikanos records in the lead up to the installation of the boiler, I think the 
documents tell the reader about the cost and the payment arrangement they are entering 
into. Mr N has told us that he agreed to get a new boiler with A and that he did sign some 
documents. So, on balance I think Mr N added his signature to the Contract of Sale, the 
Satisfaction Note and the Declaration paperwork. 
Furthermore, I dont think the evidence shows that the boiler would be provided or installed 
free of charge. And on balance, Im not persuaded that either A or Ikano told Mr N that the 
cost would be waived under a government scheme. 
Ive also looked at the loan agreement forms, to consider how the fixed sum loan agreement 
was presented to Mr N by Ikano. Having done so, I can see that Mr Ns personal details, 
information about his driving licence and details about his bank statement were recorded by 
Ikano. I can also see that the loan amount, monthly payment amount, term and rate of interest is listed, along with the general conditions of the agreement. 
In a difference to the other documents, the loan agreement form asks for an electronic 
signature. I can see that the electronic signature was added on 11 February 2021. Mr N has 
told us that he remembers signing a device used by A, but didnt see the information on the 
screen. 
While I acknowledge what Mr N has said, I have to keep in mind that the evidence shows he 
wanted a new boiler from A and that there would be a cost involved. Having looked at all the 
paperwork weve been given from Mr N, A and Ikano, Im persuaded that A gave Mr N the 
information he needed, before the fixed loan agreement started. 
And from looking at the loan agreement forms, on balance, I think Mr N gave his authority for 
Ikano to start a fixed sum loan in his name. So, having considered everything, I think its fair 
for Ikano to hold Mr N responsible for the repayments due under the agreement. 
The section 75 claim 
Mr N paid for the boiler and its installation using a fixed sum loan. This is a regulated 
consumer credit contract, and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these 
sorts of agreements. 
I take into account the relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 makes Ikano responsible for 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation by A, under certain conditions. I think the 
necessary agreement between the parties exists and the claim is within the relevant financial 
limits. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that traders must perform the service with reasonable care and skill. 
And that services should be performed within a reasonable amount of time. The CRA implies 
terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. The CRA also sets 
out what remedies are available to consumers if statutory rights under a goods or services 
contract are not met. 
It's important to note that Im not considering a complaint against A. Im considering a 
complaint against Ikano. So I have to consider Ikanos obligations as a provider of financial 
services. In this case their liability for breach of contract or misrepresentation under section 
75. 
Its also important to note that compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by a 
supplier is limited with this type of complaint. I appreciate Mr N is very upset about whats 
happened in his dealings with A. But, I have to consider what Ikano can be held responsible 
for, which is the like claim Mr N would have in court against the supplier for breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. 
Courts do consider whats known as general damages. But damages arent generally 
recoverable for distress or inconvenience. Awards in cases where theres been a breach of 
contract which caused the claimant physical distress or discomfort can be made, but they 
tend to be modest. 
While I appreciate Mr N is unhappy hes been living with a boiler which he says is unsafe, I 
dont think the nature of the issues have caused significant physical inconvenience or 
discomfort. I therefore dont have the grounds to direct Ikano to pay significant compensation 
for this. The quality of the boiler and its installation 
Other than what Mr N has told us, neither Mr N nor Ikano have provided any evidence to 
show that the boiler itself has a fault. Mr N says the boiler doesnt perform as well as his 
previous model. While I accept different makes or models of boilers may have differences in 
performance, it doesnt follow that this means the model given to Mr N is defective. 
Without any persuasive evidence here, on balance, I dont think a reasonable person would 
say the boiler is of unsatisfactory quality. So, although I cannot see that Ikano fully engaged 
with Mr N about the quality of the boiler, I think Ikano have treated this part of his section 75 
claim fairly. 
However, Mr N says that when A installed the boiler, it was fitted in the wrong place. To 
support what he says, Mr N has provided a Gas Safe Register report from October 2021. 
Having considered this report, I can see under Defects it says: 
The clearance above the boiler measured 230mm, this is not as per the boiler 
manufacturer installation instruction (pages 16 & 18), which require a minimum 
clearance of 250mm. 
So, I think Mr N has sent us persuasive evidence from an independent engineer, that the 
installation of the boiler hasnt been carried out in line with the manufacturers instructions. 
Despite the report being carried out over 18 months ago, Ikano have told us that they have 
only recently become aware of its findings. I acknowledge that Mr N may not have sent it to 
Ikano, when he first raised his section 75 claim. But, I dont think Ikano have engaged with 
Mr N, to ask him or A for information about the quality of the installation. And I dont think 
that should prevent Mr N from access to any remedy he is entitled to now. 
Ive considered the other submissions from Mr N and Ikano. Mr N has supplied some 
photographs of examples of things wrong with the instillation of the boiler. Ikano has 
acknowledged where things have gone wrong. And I understand theres also been various 
attempts by A to remedy issues. 
So I think theres enough to demonstrate theres been a breach of contract because the 
installation wasnt carried out with reasonable skill and care. Where rights under a services 
contract arent met, the CRA sets out that depending on the circumstances, consumers can 
request a remedy. These remedies can include either repeat performance or a price 
reduction. So, Ive considered what would be a fair remedy and resolution in Mr Ns case. 
The settlement to Mr Ns complaint 
Mr N has said there has been various attempts at repeat performance, but the boilers 
position still isnt to his satisfaction. Given how long things have taken, under normal 
circumstances, I think it would be fair that a price reduction is explored. But, Mr Ns contract 
with A is for one single amount and doesnt provide a breakdown of how much of that cost is 
for the installation. 
Recently, Ikano have said that they are willing to arrange the repositioning of the boiler. This 
may be something which Mr N chooses, instead of finding another tradesperson himself. 
But, the boiler was installed by A in February 2021 and I think Ikano have had a fair 
opportunity to arrange a repeat performance, since they became involved. So, I dont think 
its fair for Mr N to now be restricted to Ikanos offer to help. 
Ive spoken directly to A and theyve not been able to confirm the cost of the installation. So, I think its fair for part of the remedy here, to include a reimbursement to Mr N for any 
reasonable costs he incurs in relation to the repositioning of the boiler. Hed have to provide 
details of the works and evidence of the costs. And Im minded to say these costs should be 
capped at £750. 
Overall, I think its fair for Mr N to have the option to either have Ikano arrange for the works 
to be carried out, or for him to make his own arrangements. Either way, I leave it to Mr N to 
tell Ikano what hed like to do, if he decides to accept my findings. 
Ive found that Mr N has been living with and using a boiler, which an independent engineer 
has said needs repositioning. I think its reasonable to suggest that Mr N needed to use the 
boiler for his day to day life and that its fair for him to pay for the goods financed by the loan. 
But, I also think its reasonable that Mr N may have been hesitant to make payments 
towards something that wasnt fitted correctly. 
Having thought carefully about Mr Ns position here, I dont think it would be fair for him to 
suffer any negative impact, with the details passed to credit reference agencies. So, I think 
its fair for Ikano to remove any adverse information recorded with credit reference agencies 
about the fixed sum loan in Mr Ns name. 
Ive also considered where Ikano have had an opportunity to fully address Mr Ns section 75 
claim. Ikano wrote to Mr N about a section 75 claim in March 2021 and February 2022. On 
each occasion, Ikano told Mr N that they could start a section 75 claim if he wished. But Ive 
not seen that they took any other steps to progress a claim. 
Mr N has sent us copies of emails he sent to Ikano from around that time. I think Mr N 
makes it clear in his correspondence that, amongst other concerns, he wanted Ikano to also 
investigate As installation of the boiler. Mr N brought his case to us in February 2022 and 
the inspection report was available some four months beforehand in October 2021. 
In all the circumstances, I think Ikano caused a delay in looking into Mr Ns section 75 claim 
and this has had an impact in getting the boiler repositioned. So, I think Mr N has been 
caused distress and inconvenience here and Ikano should make a payment to Mr N to 
reflect the worry this delay caused to him. 
Having thought about everything, I think its fair for Ikano to pay Mr N £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience hes experienced. 
Finally, Im aware that Mr N says A damaged a sink and stole items from his home. Ive 
considered some photographs of the sink area and the emails Mr N sent to both A and 
Ikano. 
Overall, Ive not seen any persuasive evidence to show any damage A might have caused, 
or to support what Mr N says about a theft. So, I dont think its fair to ask Ikano to reimburse 
Mr N for the items he raised concerns about here. Im also aware that A made an offer to 
pay Mr N £100 for the untidiness of their work. To be clear, I make no finding on that offer, 
which may still be open for him to accept directly with A.
Mr N responded to the provisional decision and in summary, he said:
- He has found everything very stressful and Ikano and A have been deceptive 
throughout.
- He wasnt aware of the loan and didnt sign a loan agreement form.- His previous boiler was in good working order and A had used carbonised paper to 
put his signature on to the loan agreement forms.
Ikano responded and accepted the provisional decision. But, in order to remove the adverse 
information from Mr Ns credit file, they say he will need to sign an agreement form for a new 
loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reiterate to Mr N that I have taken his difficult personal circumstances into 
consideration. Id also like to reassure Mr N that I have thought very carefully about how he 
says A and Ikano have conducted themselves with him.
However, after looking at all the documents and listening to what all sides have said, I still 
think Ikano treated Mr N fairly, when the fixed sum loan agreement was signed and put into 
place.
Although I can understand how carbonised paper could be used by a fraudster to forge a 
signature, on balance, I dont think that is was happened here. I say this because of Mr Ns 
conversations with A about getting a new boiler, the personal and financial details given to A 
and the various other pieces of paperwork that Ikano have shown were signed by Mr N. This 
is in addition to the signed loan agreement itself.
I also acknowledge that Mr Ns previous boiler may have been in good working order. But, I 
dont think this in itself supports the argument that Mr D didnt authorise the opening of the 
fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano.
Ikano have told us that in order to remove the adverse information from the details recorded 
with credit reference agencies, they will need Mr N to sign a new loan agreement form. 
While I understand Ikano will have to make manual adjustments, should Mr N accept this 
final decision, I dont think it would be fair to expect him to be bound by a new, different 
agreement.
As an alternative, Ikano may be able to arrange for the removal of the adverse information 
and separately agree a repayment plan directly with Mr N for the outstanding balance he 
owes. Any repayment plan should be consistent and sympathetic with Mr Ns financial 
circumstances.
Overall though, after looking at how Ikano handled Mr Ns section 75 claim, Ive concluded 
that this part should be upheld. In all the circumstances, I still think that its fair for Ikano to 
either arrange for the repositioning of Mr Ns boiler, or to pay Mr N up to £750, if he decides 
to organise for another tradesperson to carry out the work. 
I also still think its fair for Ikano to remove any adverse information from the records held 
about the fixed sum loan agreement with credit reference agencies. And for Ikano to pay 
Mr N £150 for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced.
Putting things right
I think Ikano Bank AB (publ) should: 
1. arrange for the boiler to be repositioned, or reimburse Mr N the reasonable cost (up to £750) for any works required to move the boiler, subject to a description of the 
works and evidence of the cost having been paid; 
2. remove any adverse information about the fixed sum loan agreement in Mr Ns 
name, from the records held with credit reference agencies; and 
3. pay Mr N £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Ikano must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr N 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If Ikano deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr N, they should provide Mr N with a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Ikano Bank AB (publ) to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman