DRN-2080416
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy because Great Lakes Insurance SE wont refund them all of their 
travel insurance premiums, even though their holiday has been cancelled. 
Mrs M is representing Mr M so Ill refer to all representations as having been made by her.
What happened
Mrs M had a one week holiday booked in May 2020. Unfortunately, it was cancelled by the 
operator because of Covid-19. Shes received a full refund for her holiday from her travel 
provider. 
In January 2020 Mrs M bought a single trip travel insurance policy, insured by Great Lakes. 
The policy was amended on the 13 March 2020 to include the travel disruption extension. As 
Mrs Ms holiday was cancelled she says she no longer needed the policy and wants a refund 
of her premiums. She paid around £257 for the policy which covered Mr and Mrs M for a 
number of medical conditions they had declared.
In late March 2020 Mrs M contacted Great Lakes and asked for a refund. They offered her a 
voucher for around £38 which Great Lakes says represents a pro-rata refund of the 
premiums. The voucher is valid for 36 months. Mrs M wants a full refund of her premiums.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. He 
was satisfied that Great Lakes had offered Mrs M a fair refund even though there was no 
requirement for her to be given one. Mrs M didnt agree as she said other people had 
received a refund from their insurers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurance contracts have a minimum 
cooling off period of 14 days where a consumer can cancel without incurring a penalty. This 
is called the right to cancel. 
However, there are exceptions to the right to cancel which are set out at ICOB 7.1.3. It says 
that the right to cancel does not apply to: 
A travel and baggage policy or similar short-term policy of less than one months 
duration. 
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ms policy set out the contractual position in relation to 
cancellation. The terms say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund the premium you have 
paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or intend to 
make a claim. 
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as a bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions. 
Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs M had to cancel their trip due to Covid-19. However, Im 
not upholding Mrs Ms complaint about the refund of her insurance policy. Im satisfied that 
Great Lakes has, in the circumstances, gone beyond what it is required to do by both the 
industry guidelines and the contract of insurance. 
I say that because: 
Mrs Ms policy was to cover her for a holiday of less than one month. That means, in 
line with the industry guidelines, there was no right to cancel as her policy was to 
cover a trip of less than months duration
The policy terms and conditions do allow for a 14 day cooling off period. The policy 
was taken out in January 2020 but Mrs M didnt cancel it until March 2020, which is 
after the cooling off period expired. This means that under the contract of insurance 
she is not entitled to any refund of her premiums
The policy terms do allow Great Lakes the discretion to refund premiums in 
exceptional circumstances. I think Great Lakes has exercised that discretion fairly 
and reasonably in this case. Great Lakes has given Mrs M a pro-rata refund in the 
form of a voucher even though Mrs M has no right to cancel under the industry 
guidelines and isnt entitled to a premium refund as the cooling off period has expired
Ive also taken into account how Great Lakes has calculated the refund, even though 
Mrs M wasnt entitled to one. I can see that theyve provided a pro-rata refund based 
on the base premium and additional premiums she paid. I think that is fair because it 
means Mrs M has had a refund of the full premiums she paid, including the additional 
premium she paid to cover the medical conditions she declared
Mrs M was covered from January until the policy was cancelled. She had the benefit 
of cover during that time, which was approximately 125 days. This covered her for a 
range of scenarios including, for example, if the holiday was cancelled due to 
Mr or Mrs M becoming ill. I dont think its fair Mrs receives a refund for this period of 
time. Thats because Great Lakes was covering the risk of her making her a 
successful claim on the policy and I think its fair she pays the proportion of the 
premiums for that
Great Lakes has refunded Mrs M the proportion of the premium which reflects the 
cost of the policy from the date Mrs M cancelled the policy in March and her intended 
travel date in May. This is a period of around 45 days. Having looked at the 
calculation Im satisfied that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case 
as that reflects the period of time she wasnt covered by the policyIve taken into account that Mrs M has been offered a voucher which she can use for 
36 months. That seems a reasonable time frame for Mrs M to use the voucher and, 
as Ive mentioned already, goes beyond what Great Lakes is required to do in the 
circumstances
Mrs M has mentioned that she is aware other people have got refunds from their 
insurers. In reaching my decision Ive taken into account the individual circumstances 
of this case. Every case is different and whether the insurer will offer a refund will 
depend on a number of factors including the duration of the insurance policy, the 
policy terms and conditions and the relevant industry guidelines. Whilst Mrs M may 
know of other people who have had a refund it doesnt automatically follow that Great 
Lakes is required to give her one. 
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against Great Lakes.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman