DRN-3145764
The complaint
Mr Z complained because Revolut Ltd refused to refund him for a transaction he said he 
didnt make.
What happened
On 19 December 2020, Mr Z contacted Revolut to say there were two transactions he didnt 
recognise.  One was for £150 and the other had no financial debit.  The Revolut chat adviser 
asked him if a family member might have used his card, and Mr Z said hed never received a 
card. The adviser told him to fill up a chargeback form and sent him a link.
On 22 December, Mr Z contacted Revolut again. He said he hadnt authorised all the 
transactions on his account in the last three days. The chat adviser said that only one, the 
first one for £150, had completed. He sent Mr Z a link to the chargeback form and also said 
that as Mr Zs card had been compromised, he should request a replacement card through 
the app.
On 9 January, Mr Z contacted Revolut again. It told him that the transaction had been 
investigated and there was no sign of fraud. So it held Mr Z liable for it. Mr Z complained. On 
18 January, Revolut issued its final response letter. It said that the investigation had shown 
no fraudulent activity on Mr Zs account, and it wouldnt refund him.
Mr Z wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He told our investigator that hed never 
had a physical Revolut card. Hed used the account to make genuine payments before, and 
he kept his phone in his pocket.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Zs complaint. She noted that Mr Z had said hed never 
ordered a card from Revolut. But Revoluts evidence showed that a card had been ordered 
through the app on 26 September 2020, and dispatched on 30 September. And there was 
also evidence to show that Mr Z had enabled online payments through the app on 6 
December. Hed then made other transactions which he hadnt disputed, between then and 
19 December when the disputed one took place. 
And Mr Z had said he didnt recall his phone ever leaving his possession and it was in his 
possession at the time of the disputed transaction. It was password protected, and he also 
used facial recognition.
So the investigator didnt think a third party had carried out the disputed transaction.
Mr Z didnt agree.  He said he hadnt made the £150 transaction himself, nor later 
transactions which didnt go through because the card had been cancelled. Mr Z said that 
although the investigator said no-one else could have made them because Mr Z still had his 
phone, it was possible that someone else had made the transaction online using the details 
from the card which Revolut said it had sent but he hadnt received. He suggested a 
dishonest retailer from a previous payment might have done this.
The investigator explained that the new card sent to Mr Z in September couldnt have been 
used until hed confirmed within the app on his phone. And Mr Z hadnt disputed transactions 
since September, until the 19 December one.
Mr Z sent a long and detailed reply. In summary, he said it was definitely a fraudulent 
transaction, shown by the fact that hed contacted Revolut to report it straightaway. He said 
hed never mentioned he didnt have a card. And he said that as soon as any online 
transaction is done, all the information on the card is generally available and can be used 
fraudulently. Mr Z asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Z has raised multiple points in his submissions to the service. Ive understood and looked 
into all of those, but Ive commented on what I think is vital to my conclusions. 
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in December 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Revolut) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part. Here, the computer evidence shows 
that the disputed £150 transaction was correctly  authenticated by manually entering details 
from the card which was issued to Mr Z in September 2020.
The regulations say that its then necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
So Ive gone on to look at who is most likely to have authorised the payments using Mr Zs 
card.
Who authorised the disputed £150 transaction?
When reaching my decision, I look at the evidence to see what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened.
First, Ive considered the card itself. On Mr Zs chat messages, he told Revolut he didnt 
have a card. On 19 December at 22:06, after the adviser asked him whether a family 
member might have used the card, he typed I never received a card.  So there is no card.  
And on 9 January 2021 at 17:45 he typed (sic) I never received a card, and it seems that 
went it sent out from revolut it got lost.
The card was dispatched by Revolut on 30 September.  It couldnt have been used until set 
up through Mr Zs app  and he didnt report that hed lost his phone. And Mr Z confirmed 
that he made the multiple payments which were made using the card between the end of 
September and the disputed transaction on 19 December. So I find its more likely than not 
that Mr Z did receive the new card in September, set it up through the app on his phone, and 
used it after September. Mr Z has argued that the fact that he reported the transaction to Revolut, and did so 
promptly, proves that it was fraudulently carried out by someone else. But I dont agree that 
prompt reporting necessarily proves it was done by a third party. Nor does the fact that more 
payments were attempted and failed, after the card had been blocked.
Mr Z has also said that once hed made a transaction, any third party such as a retailer, 
would be able to re-use the details hed input, and use them to carry out any future frauds. 
But there are safeguards in the technology which prevent that.
Essentially, the computer evidence shows that the transaction was carried out using Mr Zs 
genuine card, with the card details entered manually during the transaction. This card was 
one which Mr Z had used for transactions which he hadnt disputed. So I find that its more 
likely than not that the transaction was authorised by Mr Z, or by someone known to him who 
had access to his card and phone. Whichever of these it was, Mr Z is liable for the 
transaction and I dont require Revolut to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman