DRN-3034221
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC have been incorrectly recording missed payments on 
his credit file.
What happened
Mr G has two credit cards with Lloyds. He missed his payments in October 2020 but says he 
then had missed payments reported on his credit reports with different credit reference 
agencies in October, November, December 2020 and at one time in January 2021. He says 
that the information recorded suggested that he had more missed payments than was 
accurate and this was adversely affecting his credit score. He said Lloyds hadnt helped him 
with this issue.
Lloyds explained that it reported to three credit reference agencies. It said that Mr G had a 
payment due on 1 October 2020 on one card and 22 October 2020 on his other card and 
that these payments were late. It said it had correctly reported these late payments. It 
explained that there was a grace period which it allowed customers to try to prevent a late 
marker being recorded and that this, combined with the cyclical nature of credit cards meant 
the late payment markers were reported in different months. It didnt accept that there had 
been any bank error.
Our investigator initially said that Lloyds should have reported both late payments in October 
2020 rather than one in October and the other in November. However, after further 
information was supplied he issued a view saying that Lloyds had reported the information in 
line with its business process and had explained why one card account reported a late 
payment in October 2020 and the other in November 2020. Based on this he didnt uphold 
this complaint.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators view. He said that two of the credit reference agencies 
had a late marker recorded in October on one card and a late marker recorded in November 
on his second card whereas one of the credit reference agency recorded the markers in 
November and December respectively. He said he had raised this with the credit reference 
agency and been told that Lloyds wouldnt allow the data to be changed. He said that this 
suggested he had missed multiple payments rather than a single payment on each card 
having a negative impact on his credit score. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds is required to ensure that the information it reports to the credit reference agencies is 
accurate. In this case Mr G missed a payment on each of his two cards in October 2020 and 
so it is reasonable that these missed payments will be reported, and Mr G hasnt disputed 
this.
I can understand why Mr G is upset by what he believes is multiple reporting of the late 
payments, however for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Lloyds 
has done something wrong.
Lloyds has explained that it reports to three credit reference agencies and so I can only hold 
it responsible for the information it has provided to these parties. 
Mr G had a payment due on one card on 1 October 2020 and the other card on 22 October 
2020. Lloyds has explained that there is a grace period allowed to try to assist customers. I 
appreciate Mr G feels this information should have been provided by Lloyds sooner and I 
agree this is useful information in understanding when the late payment markers are 
recorded. As the payment on one card was missed at the start of October the late payment 
marker was reported by Lloyds that month, whereas the payment due later in October wasnt 
reported until November 2020. Lloyds has provided evidence from its system reports that 
confirm these reports. 
I have looked at the information that has been provided showing what is recorded on Mr Gs 
credit reports. Two of the credit reference agencies record a late payment for one card in 
October 2020 and the other card in November 2020. This is in line with the reports made by 
Lloyds. A third credit reference agency is reporting the late payment as happening in 
November and December 2020. I can understand why this has upset Mr G and that he has 
spent time trying to understand the difference. However, based on what I have seen, I 
accept that Lloyds has reported the late payment to the credit reference agencies correctly.
Mr G has said that Lloyds hasnt helped him with reporting issues. I can see that Mr G 
contacted the credit reference agency that was reporting the late payment in November and 
December 2020 and it in turn contacted Lloyds. However, as Lloyds had provided it with 
accurate information about Mr Gs account I do not find I can say it did anything wrong by 
stating this to the credit reference agency.
Mr G has said that multiple late payment markers are recorded. I understand the point he 
has made but each credit refence agency is only reporting a single months missed payment. 
I appreciate the point about the timing but overall as I have nothing to suggest that Lloyds 
has done anything wrong in how it reported the missed payments on Mr Gs cards, I do not 
find I can uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman