DRN-4511036
The complaint
Ms B and Mr S complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt paid a claim they made on a 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Ms B and Mr S took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker. They were due 
to take a multi-flight journey in March 2023.
However, in October 2022, they learned that one of the flights times had changed, which 
meant theyd miss other connections. Ms B and Mr S travel agent told them that the original 
flight could be cancelled and a new flight could be arranged which would allow them to take 
the remainder of their pre-booked itinerary. The new flight would cost an extra £1071. So Ms 
B and Mr S called to check whether the cost of the new flight would be covered.
Ms B and Mr S say Great Lakes told them that the cost would be covered. On that basis, 
they say they went ahead with booking the new flight. They made a claim on their travel 
insurance policy for the cost they incurred.
Great Lakes turned the claim down. It said the circumstances of the claim werent covered 
by any section of the policy.
Ms B and Mr S were unhappy with Great Lakes decision and they complained. They 
maintained that theyd only booked the new flight because Great Lakes had told them the 
cost would be covered.
Our investigator considered the available evidence. He thought that Ms B and Mr S trip had 
already begun at the time of the call. So he thought the flight change happened during the 
trip. He didnt think the claim was covered by the policy terms. And he noted there was no 
record of the conversation which had taken place between Mr S and Great Lakes claims 
team. But he accepted it was most likely that the call had happened as Mr S had said.
However, given his understanding that Ms B and Mr S trip was already underway at the time 
of the new flight booking, the investigator concluded that theyd still have chosen to pay for 
the new flight. So he didnt think theyd suffered a financial loss as the result of any error 
Great Lakes may have made.
Nonetheless, he thought Great Lakes had given Ms B and Mr S a reasonable expectation 
that their claim would be paid. So he recommended that it should pay them £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset this misinformation had caused them.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 November 2023, which explained the reasons why I 
thought it had been fair for Great Lakes to turn down Ms B and Mr S claim, but why I felt it 
should pay them £200 compensation. I said:
First, I must make it clear that while the investigator felt Ms B and Mr S trip had already 
begun at the time of the call to Great Lakes, I dont agree with this finding. The evidence 
indicates that Ms B and Mr S were due to travel in March 2023. But the call took place in 
October 2022, some months prior to the trip. Necessarily then, I think the flight change and 
new flight purchase happened some time before the trip began.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Ms B and Mr S policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether I 
think Great Lakes treated them fairly.
Was it fair for Great Lakes to conclude that the claim wasnt covered?
Ive first carefully considered the policy terms, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Ms B, Mr S and Great Lakes. Ive had particular reference to the cancellation, trip 
disruption and travel delay sections of the policy. It doesnt appear to me that Ms B and Mr 
S new flight costs would be covered under any section of the policy. And I note that the 
cancellation and trip disruption sections of the policy include the following specific exclusion:
What is not covered
failure by the provider of any part of the booked trip to supply the service or transport 
(whether as the result of error, insolvency, bankruptcy, liquidation, omission, default or 
otherwise), unless the event is specifically covered by this policy. You should direct any 
claim in this case to the provider involved.
Its clear that Ms B and Mr S had to book new flights because their original flight provider 
changed the flight time. This meant they wouldnt have been able to catch their pre-booked 
connections. So I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Great Lakes to conclude not 
only that their claim wasnt covered by the policy terms, but also that it was specifically 
excluded from cover too.
Did Great Lakes prejudice Ms B and Mr S position?
Mr S contacted the policy broker because he wanted to check whether the cost of the new 
flight would be covered. During the call, he was transferred to Great Lakes claims 
department. While the call with the broker was recorded, there doesnt seem to be a copy of 
what was said after the call was transferred to the claims team. Having listened to the 
available recording, Im satisfied that Mr S clearly explained the situation and that he was 
calling to ask whether the new flight cost would be covered. The broker explained that it 
wasnt able to give claims advice or information, so transferred Mr S call to Great Lakes 
claims team. As the broker and Great Lakes are two entirely separate financial businesses, 
this is likely to be the reason why the recording ended at the point of transfer.
Ms B and Mr S have maintained that they were told their new flight costs would be covered. 
In the absence of the call recording to determine exactly what was said, I need to make a 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and circumstances. As Ive explained, during the 
call, Mr S clearly explained the situation and that he was calling to check cover. So I think its 
most likely that hed have provided the claims team with a very similar explanation of the 
circumstances and the reason for his call. And in my view, Ms B and Mr S have given clear, 
consistent, plausible and persuasive testimony about what they were told by Great Lakes 
claims team. On balance then, I do currently think its more likely than not that Great Lakes 
told Mr S that the new flight cost would be covered.However, it doesnt necessarily follow that even if I accept Great Lakes did give Mr S 
misleading information, it must pay for the new flight. In order for me to make such an award, 
Id need to be satisfied that but for Great Lakes misinformation, Ms B and Mr S wouldve 
acted differently. And Id need to be satisfied that, as a result of Great Lakes misinformation, 
Ms B and Mr S incurred costs they wouldnt otherwise have done.
On the evidence before me, I dont currently think I can fairly find that this was the case. I 
say that because Ms B and Mr S told us that if theyd been told that the costs of the new 
flight wouldnt be covered, the whole trip would have had to have been completely re-routed. 
And they told us they couldnt have taken the holiday they planned. It seems to me that if Ms 
B and Mr S had chosen to cancel their trip rather than buy a new flight; any cancellation 
costs theyd accordingly incurred wouldnt have been covered by the policy terms. Thats 
because the cancellation section of the policy doesnt cover cancellation due to the 
rescheduling of a flight, or the impact of such a cancellation on a policyholders planned 
itinerary. So even if Ms B and Mr S cancelled their trip, I think the resulting cancellation costs 
are likely to have been substantially higher than the cost of the new flight. This means I think 
theyd have suffered a significantly higher financial loss.
Its possible that Ms B and Mr S travel agent could have re-routed their entire trip. But Ive 
seen no persuasive evidence that this could have been done. Nor have I seen evidence that 
the cost to Ms B and Mr S of such an itinerary change wouldve been less than the cost of 
the new flight.
Overall, on balance, I currently think that even if Great Lakes had given Ms B and Mr S the 
right information about their cover, theyd still most likely have decided to pay for the new 
flight, so that they could mitigate their potential losses. And I simply havent seen enough 
evidence to persuade me that Ms B and Mr S have been prejudiced by Great Lakes actions. 
So it follows that Im not intending to direct Great Lakes to pay their claim costs, despite the 
misinformation I think they were given.
However, I agree with the investigator that Ms B and Mr S are likely to have suffered 
unnecessary upset and inconvenience when they learned that, in fact, their claim wasnt 
covered. And I think this loss of expectation and upset were entirely avoidable. So Im 
planning to direct Great Lakes to pay Ms B and Mr S £200 compensation to reflect the 
material trouble and upset I consider the misinformation I think it likely gave them caused.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further information or evidence they wanted me 
to consider.
Great Lakes didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Ms B and Ms S confirmed theyd received my provisional decision but didnt make any 
further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided any new evidence or comments, I see no 
reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
find it was fair for Great Lakes to turn down Ms B and Mr S claim.
But I direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to pay Ms B and Mr S £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman