DRN-1983506
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the claim settlement amount paid by Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited (Lloyds) towards the septic tank claim they made on their home insurance 
policy.
Mr W has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
What happened
Mr W made a claim to Lloyds after he noticed a problem with his drainage system. There 
was a leak from a pipe that carried waste from the septic tank away from the house.
Lloyds declined the claim because it didnt think the pipe had been damaged accidentally. 
Mr W employed a contractor (N) to investigate the pipe and repair it. He also employed a 
contractor (C) to replace the septic tank with a sewage treatment plant.
Mr W provided Lloyds with information from N to show the pipe had been crushed. Lloyds 
accepted the pipe had been damaged accidentally and agreed to cover the cost of repairing 
it.
Mr W later provided information from C about the cost of replacing the septic tank. He said 
the tank had been damaged as a result of the problem with the pipe. Whilst the pipe was 
crushed, this created an obstruction, which meant waste water flowed back through the 
system and into the septic tank, causing damage to its structure.
Lloyds maintained the septic tank hadnt been damaged accidentally and didnt agree to pay 
anything toward that part of Mr Ws claim. Mr W complained about that decision, but Lloyds 
position didnt change. Mr W referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Mr W provided a report from C about the damage to 
the septic tank. Our investigator accepted that the evidence showed that the problem with 
the pipe caused damage to the septic tank. And because the problem with the pipe was 
covered by the policy, he thought it would be fair for Lloyds to cover the damage it caused to 
the septic tank. Our investigator said Lloyds should pay the equivalent cost of replacing the 
existing septic tank. He didnt think Lloyds should pay the cost of installing a new sewage 
treatment plant. This was because the new treatment plant was only installed by Mr W to 
comply with regulations introduced in 2015.
Mr W accepted this. But Lloyds didnt. Lloyds said the damage to the septic tank wasnt 
caused accidentally. It also said it wasnt responsible for the length of time the claim had 
taken to reach this stage.
my provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:Lloyds has already agreed to pay the full cost of the pipe repair that Mr W has carried out. 
So that part of his claim is resolved, and I wont be making a finding on this point. Ill be 
considering the claim for the septic tank issue only.
The policy Lloyds provides covers accidental damage to underground pipes, drains and 
tanks. The policy defines accidental damage to mean:
An accident that causes physical damage, which is caused suddenly by an outside force 
and is not expected and not deliberate.
To decide whether the damage to the septic tank meets this definition, Ive looked at the 
various expert reports and opinions available to me.
After Lloyds initially declined the claim Mr W asked C to inspect the drainage system. C said 
the pipe had been crushed and arranged for N to carry out the repair. They also said the 
septic tank had critical structural failings. They said the broken pipe had caused large 
amounts of grey water to backup into and around the tank as it escaped wherever it could. C 
went on to say, this waterlogged the ground surrounding the tank and caused a build-up of 
pressure on the tank. Over time and particularly when the tank was emptied, this pressure 
pushed the brickwork of the tank inwards and caused damage.
Lloyds considered Cs comments and made a number of points. In summary it said:
the tank was old;
the brickwork structure of the tank was no longer the favoured method of 
construction;
modern tanks were built in a way designed to withstand the typical pressures acting 
on the tank from the ground outside it and the water within it;
the damage wasnt the result of the drain blockage  it was the result of gradual 
movement over time as a result of the pressures acting on the tank without any 
modern design features to resist those pressures;
it wouldnt be fair for Lloyds to pay to upgrade the tank or other parts of the drainage 
system as there was a regulatory requirement to do so prior to the claim from 2015;
the policy doesnt cover updating an obsolete or polluting system.
 
Mr W has said the septic tank problem is a direct result of the damaged pipe. And as its 
accepted the pipe was damaged accidentally and that was covered by the policy, the septic 
tank problem should be too. I understand the point hes making.
I think its quite key to note that Cs comments are the only ones based on inspecting the 
actual damage. C said the pipe damage  which effectively blocked the pipe  caused waste 
water to travel backup the system and overwhelm the septic tank. With nowhere else to go 
the water leaked into the surrounding ground, increasing the pressure acting on the tank. I 
think thats persuasive and the clearest evidence Ive seen on this case. Based on Cs 
comments I think its most likely the pipe damage led to the septic tank brickwork suffering 
damage.
I also think its fair to accept Lloyds point that an old tank such as this one may have suffered 
a degree of wear and tear, including to the brickwork, prior to the pipe problem. But I havent 
seen anything to suggest there was a noticeable problem with the tank before the pipe 
damage. There was afterwards. Theres no evidence to suggest the tank was problematic 
prior to the pipe damage. So, I think its most likely the pipe damage had the significant 
impact on the tank.Lloyds havent suggested the tank was constructed contrary to common practices at the time 
it was built. Only that it doesnt comply with modern standards. I think that slightly misses the 
point. And I understand the point Lloyds is making that the tank no longer complied with 
guidelines that were updated in 2015. But Lloyds follow on from that to suggest that means it 
cant be in anyway liable for any costs. I dont think that follows and so I dont think thats 
automatically fair.
Unless the septic tank failed to meet the relevant standards and regulations at the time it 
was built, I dont think the way it was built is a factor here. All structures will suffer some 
amount of wear and tear and degradation over time. The evidence available here suggests 
the tank stood the test of time until the pipe problem intervened and caused damage to it.
The pipe damage was covered by the policy. And I think the evidence from C shows that the 
pipe damage led to the septic tank damage. I do understand Lloyds point about accidental 
damage being sudden. But if Lloyds accept the pipe damage occurred over a period of time 
and is covered by the policy, I dont see why the tank damage can be treated any differently. 
I think it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to cover the damage caused to the septic 
tank as part of the same claim as the pipe. 
In 2015 new regulations came into force which required drainage systems like Mr Ws to be 
changed. This was the case prior to the pipe damage and wasnt caused by the pipe 
damage. So I dont think it would be fair for Lloyds to be responsible for any costs incurred 
solely as a result of making those changes.
Our investigator suggested Lloyds pay Mr W the cost of replacing the old septic tank like-for-
like. He didnt recommend Lloyds pay to upgrade the system. Mr W accepted this. I think this 
is a reasonable outcome to resolve the complaint.
Lloyds said it wasnt responsible for the length of time the claim had taken to reach this 
stage. I think some of the evidence did take some time to surface and Lloyds could only 
review the evidence it was aware of. So, I dont think Lloyds delayed the claim handling.
responses to my provisional decision
Mr W had no more to add.
Lloyds said the pipe damage was sudden and didnt occur over a period of time. It said it the 
damage wasnt accidental. It asked why it was being asked to pay for replacement rather 
than repair. Finally, Lloyds made more points about the old system needing to be updated to 
be in line with current regulations and needing to be changed anyway.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful for the further comments but I dont think theres anything there that makes me 
think I need to change my provisional decision.
I understand what Lloyds say about the pipe damage being sudden. But if anything, I think 
that strengthens Mr Ws case. Ive been guided by the best evidence here which was 
provided by C. This evidence said it was most likely the pipe damage led to the septic tank 
brickwork suffering damage. Lloyds hasnt provided any evidence to refute the point. So, if 
the damage to the pipe was accidental and sudden and led to the tank problem, I dont see how this can fairly be treated any differently. Lloyds hasnt provided any evidence to confirm 
why its different or why it wasnt accidental.
In terms of Lloyds suggestion of repair instead of the original tank replacement cost this is 
the first time Lloyds has made this point. But to fix the system a full replacement has 
already been undertaken. Further, I dont recall ever dealing with a case where the 
suggestion has been for a repair. Insurers have generally said tanks need to be replaced or 
theres no cover. Repair hasnt been something the industry has suggested on the individual 
cases Ive been involved in. Further, insurers reasons for replacement may have been due 
to the high cost of repair compared to a more straightforward replacement. So, Lloyds 
sudden stance on this is surprising. In theory I suspect a repair is possible even though its 
not something Ive seen offered across claims of this type in the past. But based on the 
details on file it isnt something ever suggested here and wasnt considered by any of the 
experts involved. I note from the file A new outflow pipe, a new tank, a new drainage field 
was already clearly necessary notwithstanding a pipe break caused by a passing vehicle. 
Such commentary doesnt tell me that Lloyds were ever interested in considering a repair.
In this case my provisional decision is also my final decision.
Putting things right
Pay the cost of replacing the septic tank on the basis of the original tank.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to:
Pay the cost of replacing the septic tank on the basis of the original tank.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
John Quinlan
Ombudsman