DRN-4013280
The complaint
Mr A complains that MBNA Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved a credit card in his 
name with a limit of £1,000. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr A applied for a credit card with MBNA. In the application Mr A said he was living 
with family and wasnt paying rent. Mr A also advised he was employed with an income of 
£1,000. MBNA carried out a credit search and found unsecured credit in Mr As name. 
MBNA says it found no evidence of any missed payments or other adverse information when 
it searched Mr As credit file. MBNA used a figure of £890 a month for payments to Mr As 
existing creditors and £434 a month for general living expenses. MBNA says it completed an 
affordability assessment and that Mr As application was approved in line with its lending 
criteria, with a limit of £1,000. 
Mr As account later fell into arrears and MBNA issued a Notice of Default. Mr A went on to 
agree an arrangement with MBNA where it agreed to place the account on hold for three 
months. 
Last year, Mr A complained that MBNA had lent irresponsibly when it approved his credit 
card application. MBNA sent Mr A a final response but didnt agree it had made a mistake or 
lent irresponsibly. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr As case. They thought MBNA had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks when looking at Mr As credit card application in 2019 
and werent persuaded it had lent irresponsibly. Mr A asked to appeal and said it shouldve 
been clear to MBNA that a new credit card was unaffordable when he applied. As Mr A 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considering how to fairly resolve Mr As 
complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, MBNA was required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Mr As ability to sustainably repay the debt. The checks had to be borrower 
focussed. This means MBNA needed to consider whether Mr A could sustainably afford the 
new borrowing (taking their specific circumstances into account). Theres no set list of 
checks a lender has to complete. The level and nature of checks is likely to vary depending 
on various factors like the amount applied for and the type of credit facility being considered. 
In this case, Mr A applied for a credit card with MBNA. The application recorded various 
details about his personal circumstances. Mr As application recorded that he was living with 
family and had no regular rent or mortgage costs in 2019. Mr A also said he was employed 
and earned £65,000 a year. From that, MBNA was able to broadly calculate how much hed 
received each month. MBNA used national statistics to calculate regular living expenses and 
used a figure of £434 a month. Im satisfied that MBNA did consider the information noted in 
Mr As application and used it when assessing the suitability of the credit card. 
MBNA also carried out a credit check and found Mr A had a reasonable level of unsecured 
credit. MBNA calculated that Mr A was paying around £890 a month to his other creditors. I 
agree this is a significant figure. But I have to balance that against the fact all the credit 
commitments were well managed at the time he applied with no evidence of missed 
payments or other adverse credit. MBNA says that after it factored in Mr As existing credit 
payments and the regular outgoings figure it used, he had over £1,400 a month left from his 
income. 
MBNA approved Mr As credit card application with a limit of £1,000. MBNA has confirmed 
the application was approved in line with its lending criteria on the basis that it was 
affordable. And I can see, from the information MBNA has sent, it carried out an assessment 
of Mr As ability to pay based on the information he gave in the application form and that it 
found on his credit file. Having taken the type of credit and the amount MBNA approved, Im 
satisfied it did carry out proportionate checks. And Im satisfied that the application was 
reasonably approved. Whilst I understand Mr A went on to experience financial difficulties, I 
havent been persuaded that MBNA lent irresponsibly when it approved his application for a 
credit card in 2019. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr A but as Im satisfied MBNA dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman