DRN-4282036
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that, because of errors by Connells Limited in relation to a 
mortgage application, only one part of their capital repayment mortgage was switched to a 
fixed rate of 3.09% for ten years, when both parts of their mortgage should have been 
switched. The other part  a sub-account with a balance of £182,673  was later switched to 
a 5.79% ten-year fixed rate.
Mr and Mrs G want Connells to reimburse them for their financial losses. 
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here.
In addition, Connells has already acknowledged it made a mistake and has agreed to pay 
compensation. Therefore I dont need to analyse the events in detail in order to determine 
whether or not Connells has done anything wrong; this isnt in dispute. All I need to decide is 
whether the compensation offered is sufficient or if there is anything more Connells needs to 
do to put things right.
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr and Mrs G being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate 
on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
Connells has agreed to pay the difference between the interest payments at 3.09% and 
5.79% over the term of the fixed rate as a lump sum. This equates to £32,125.20. Connells 
has also agreed to reimburse the administration fee of £99, and to pay compensation of 
£500. 
Mr and Mrs G said this didnt go far enough, as the payment tables they found online 
suggested their losses would be much greater than this. They say the capital balance of the 
mortgage would be much greater at the end of ten years on the 5.79% rate than on the 
3.09% rate. 
Mr and Mrs G brought their complaint to our service. After considering what both parties had 
said and after looking at the calculations, the investigator was satisfied that Connells 
proposed resolution was fair and reasonable. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review the complaint.
Mr and Mrs G say that Connells resolution will cause them financial disadvantage as they 
will not be able to make 10% overpayments every year and so have been financially 
disadvantaged. They have provided calculations from a popular website showing a mortgage 
of 5.79% over a 25.5-year term which they say shows their financial losses being £12,712. 
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a business has made an error, we try, as much as is practicable, to put the consumer 
back in the position theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt been made. Balanced against 
that is that we would expect a consumer to take steps to mitigate their position if it is 
reasonable to do so.
It wasnt possible for Connells to source a mortgage at 3.09% for Mr and Mrs G for this 
sub-account. Instead Connells offered financial redress for the additional interest totalling 
£32.125.20. I have therefore considered whether this is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
The redress compensates Mr and Mrs G for the additional interest theyll pay as a result of 
one sub-account not being switched to the 3.09% rate. That is of course fair, and Connells 
has agreed to pay this as a lump sum in advance of most of the actual loss occurring. So 
this gives Mr and Mrs G options about how to use that lump sum to gain the best advantage 
over the term of the 10-year fixed rate. 
Ive noted what Mr and Mrs G have said about the implications of the redress on the capital 
balance of the mortgage. However, Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage allows them to make an 
overpayment of up to 10% of the balance each year without incurring an early repayment 
charge. Therefore in the first year of the mortgage they could reduce the balance by about 
£18,000, which Mr and Mrs G acknowledge. But they have claimed that they would be out of 
pocket by £5,343.10 because of what they describe as a delta of funds . 
However, Mr and Mrs G have not taken into consideration the effect on the mortgage of 
making an allowed lump sum payment of up to 10% of the balance in year 2 of the 
mortgage. 
In relation to overpayments, Mr and Mrs Gs lender states:
An early repayment charge applies on some mortgages. You may have to pay an 
early repayment charge if, during your early repayment charge period, you repay 
more than a certain amount of your mortgage or switch to a new mortgage deal. You 
can make, each year, extra payments of up to 10% (some products have a higher 
limit) of the mortgage balance as at 1st January before a charge applies.
You can pay part of your mortgage whenever you want. They are known as 
lump-sum overpayments. When you make a payment, your mortgage balance will be 
reduced on the day we receive the money, and you'll start to be charged less 
interest. Then, because your balance is lower, you can either:
Keep paying your current monthly payment so that you repay your mortgage 
sooner. However, when we next re-calculate your monthly payment, for example 
at an interest rate change, we will set the new monthly payment to a level that will repay your mortgage over the current mortgage term. Or
Ask us to re-calculate your monthly payment immediately, so that you get to 
reduce your monthly payments but still repay your loan by the end of the current 
mortgage term. Or
If your mortgage is set up on a repayment basis, you can apply to change the 
remaining term. If you do this, you will need to speak to one of our Mortgage 
Advisors who will check that you can afford the monthly payments over the new 
term and advise you if this is right for you.
Therefore in the second year, Mr and Mrs G could make a further capital reduction of about 
£14,000 and could then ask their lender to recalculate their monthly repayment on the 
reduced balance. Given this, taking into account their lenders policy on overpayments, Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs G have the option of making two lump sum payments in years 1 
and 2, then either keeping their repayments the same (thus reducing the mortgage balance 
each month by way of overpayment), or asking their lender to recalculate their monthly 
payments over the existing term.
Alternatively Mr and Mrs G have the option of making monthly overpayments. These would 
result in a recalculation of the monthly mortgage payment on the reduced balance, and so if 
monthly overpayments were made at the same level each month, the cumulative effect of 
them would increase over time as they would be paying off more capital. 
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs G have said  that it is their prerogative whether to make 
overpayments or not. But they are also under a duty to mitigate their position and if they 
decide not to make any capital reductions  particularly where their lender provides the 
option of reducing their monthly repayments after doing so  I cant hold Connells 
responsible for this or order Connells to compensate Mr and Mrs G if they decide not to use 
the redress towards reduction of their mortgage.
Putting things right
In all the circumstances, having noted everything both parties have said, and taking note of 
the calculations provided by both Mr and Mrs G and Connells, Im satisfied that the total 
redress offered by Connells of financial redress of £32,125.20, a refund of the £99 
administration fee and compensation for distress and inconvenience of £500 is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of this complaint, Connells Limited must 
pay Mr and Mrs G redress of £32,125.20, refund the £99 administration fee and pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience of £500. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman