DRN-3661986
The complaint
Mr D complains about the repairs that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited made to his car 
following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr D was involved in a collision with a lorry and his car was taken for repairs. When it was 
returned, Mr D took the car for a full service. He said this identified accident-related damage 
to the front of the car that hadnt been repaired and that the car needed wheel realignment. 
This would cost £1,210.60. But Admiral declined to pay for this as it said this damage was 
due to wear and tear and the car had already had a wheel alignment. 
our investigators view
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that it was 
more likely than not that the damage had been caused by the impact. A previous MOT 
hadnt indicated any problems. And she thought the recent geometry test had shown that the 
wheels werent aligned. So she thought Admiral should arrange for these repairs to be done. 
Admiral replied that its engineer and the approved repairer had said that the damage to the 
front of the car wasnt accident-related, but due to wear and tear. It said a geometry check 
had been completed and all readings were within manufacturers specifications. It said the 
previous MOT was 10 months before the incident and wear and tear could have arisen since 
then.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr D 
and to Admiral on 25 July 2022. I summarise my findings:
I was sorry to hear about Mr Ds accident. I could understand that he wanted his car fully 
repaired. Mr D thought that as the other drivers insurer was paying for the repairs, then 
Admiral should ensure that his car was completely repaired. But Admiral has a duty to 
minimise claim costs and can only ask the other insurer to reimburse the costs of repairs that 
are justified by evidence. And Admiral is only responsible for completing repairs that are 
accident-related.
So the dispute was that Mr D thought that Admiral hadnt repaired all the damage to his car 
caused by the accident whilst Admiral maintained that the additional damage was due to 
wear and tear. 
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
The evidence that Admiral had to consider was its approved repairers estimate and report, 
its in-house engineers notes, the cars previous MOT and the estimate and geometry check 
provided by Mr D. 
I noted that Mr Ds garages report didnt say that the additional damage was caused by the 
accident. Mr D assumed that this would be likely from his recall of events. The approved 
garage made some unrelated repairs to the car for safety reasons but without Admirals 
approval. It said the further additional damage was due to wear and tear. And Admirals 
engineers maintained that the additional damage wasnt accident-related due to the nature 
of the impact. Admiral considered the cars previous MOT, but I thought it reasonably 
discounted this as it was done 10 months before the accident. 
Admiral invited Mr D to provide further evidence to substantiate his claim for additional 
repairs, but he didnt do this. Where theres a dispute about repairs, we consider it helpful if 
an independent assessor is appointed to resolve the matter. But, in this case, I didnt think 
that was justified as Admiral hadnt had a conflicting report to consider. 
So I thought Admiral had reasonably considered the evidence available and concluded that 
the additional damage was due to wear and tear, and so not accident-related. And so I 
thought it had justified its decision not to pay for the repairs to the front of the car.
However, I thought Admiral hadnt explained why the geometry check carried out a few days 
after Mr Ds car was returned to him showed the wheels to be out of alignment. It discounted 
this as it said a previous check had shown the alignment to be within manufacturers 
specifications. But it was evidently incorrect. Looking at the claim notes, I could see that the 
repairers had trouble completing a geometry check. So I thought Admiral hadnt justified 
dismissing this repair. And I thought it should reimburse Mr D for the cost of the geometry 
check and realignment, on production of an invoice for this. 
Subject to any further representations Mr D or Admiral, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to reimburse Mr D for the cost of the geometry check and wheel alignment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D replied clarifying some points that he thought were incorrect. In summary:
He said he hadnt asked his garage to undertake a damage inspection, but a service. He 
said it had listed the repairs to be made. But that doesnt change the fact that Mr D 
hasnt provided evidence that the additional damage to the front of the car was accident-
related. 
Mr D said hed asked Admiral to obtain an inspection from a dealership. But Im satisfied 
that its for Mr D to show that the damage has been caused by the incident. And, as Ive 
said above, I dont think his request for Admiral to obtain a further report was justified as 
Admiral hadnt had a conflicting report to consider. 
Mr D said he hadnt asked Admiral to pay him £1,210.60, but to correct the repairs. And I 
agree that he wanted Admiral to pay for further repairs, not to reimburse him. 
Mr D said he thought Admiral should persuade the other insurer that his repair costs 
were legitimate. But, as Ive said above, Admiral has a duty to minimise repair costs and 
must justify its outlay. 
Admiral replied with further explanations from its engineer that it said justified its decision to 
decline to pay for the further geometry and wheel alignment Mr D had carried out shortly 
after the car was returned to him. 
It said the geometry check carried out by an agent of the approved repairer had brought the 
readings into the manufacturers specifications. It agreed that Mr Ds garage had shown that further adjustments had been needed. But it said this could have been caused by 
subsequent road use and further adjustment was a matter of service maintenance. 
I can see that Mr D had his car serviced two days after it was returned to him. I can see from 
comparing reports that the car had been driven 62 miles since the accident. This may have 
included road testing. I can understand Admirals argument that the wheel alignment may be 
affected at any time. 
But, taking into account the distance Mr D had likely travelled since the car was returned to 
him and that all the wheels were out of alignment, Im not satisfied that Admiral has 
sufficiently justified its decision not to pay for the further geometry check and wheel 
alignment. 
So Im satisfied that neither Mr D nor Admiral have provided any additional evidence that 
causes me to change my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to reimburse Mr D for the cost of the geometry 
check and wheel alignment, on production of reasonable evidence for this.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman