DRN-2507274
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited failed to provide him with 
appropriate advice and information in 1996 when he was considering making additional 
pension contributions.
What happened
Mr M was a member of an occupational pension scheme. In 1996 he wished to make 
additional contributions to his pension savings  he says that was because he thought that 
he would want to retire earlier than the normal scheme retirement age of 60. Mr Ms 
occupational pension scheme offered him two alternative ways of making additional pension 
contributions. He could either contribute to an Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) 
scheme that was administered by Prudential, or he could use his additional contributions to 
purchase added years of pension benefits.
Mr M met with an advisor from Prudential in May 1996. The documentation from the time 
records that Mr M had not participated in a full review of his finances, and so accepted that 
the advice Prudential could give to him was limited to the payment of AVCs. That 
documentation also noted that Mr M had been made aware of the option to instead make 
added years contributions instead. Mr M started making AVC contributions before stopping 
them in 2007 when other more pressing financial needs took precedence.
Mr M took his pension benefits at age 56 in September 2010. At that time he took a pension 
commencement lump sum, and used the remainder of his AVC pension savings to purchase 
an annuity from another firm. In 2020 Mr M complained to Prudential about the advice and 
information hed been given in 1996. In particular he complained that the potential benefits of 
the AVC scheme had been overstated, and that Prudential hadnt given him sufficient 
information about the other ways he could make additional contributions to his pension. 
Prudential didnt agree with Mr Ms complaint so he brought it to this Service.
Mr Ms complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that the 
information available from the time suggested that Prudential had provided Mr M with 
sufficient information about the other options available to him. And he didnt think that 
Prudentials projections of the likely value of the AVC savings when Mr M retired were out of 
line with industry expectations at the time. So he didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr M didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr M and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
The event that Mr M is complaining about took place almost 25 years ago. Whilst I have no 
doubts that Mr M has given us his complete and honest recollections of what happened, 
I must be mindful that over such a long period of time even the most careful of memories 
can, and do, fade. And for the same reasons it isnt entirely unsurprising that Prudential 
might not have as much paperwork as it once had relating to the advice it gave to Mr M.
The majority of the contemporaneous evidence from the time is contained within an 
application form that Mr M signed to start making AVC contributions. That form contains a 
number of additional statements that give some understanding of what might have been 
discussed between Mr M and Prudential. For example the form records that Prudential didnt 
undertake a personal financial review with Mr M  it only gave him advice about the AVC 
scheme. It also notes that Mr M had been made aware of the added years contribution 
option. And it explained that his AVC contributions would be invested into the With Profits 
Fund, although it goes on to explain that other investment options were available on 
request.
I dont think that this form should lead me to conclude that Mr M was offered, and declined, a 
full financial review. The form simply records that a review didnt take place and as a result 
the advice Prudential gave would be limited in nature and only cover the AVC options. But 
I dont think that means the advice Prudential gave was inappropriate. Providing it was clear 
to Mr M that the scope of the advice was limited, he would have been free to either request 
more detailed advice or seek support from an independent financial advisor. I havent seen 
anything that would make me think Prudential led Mr M to believe it was providing him with 
more comprehensive advice  the form that he signed clearly states the opposite.
In 1996 the expectations for future investment growth, and the levels of annuity that could be 
purchased, were very different from now. Since that time annuity rates have fallen, as have 
the expected levels of growth from the sort of investment that Mr M took. That doesnt mean 
that the expectations at the time were incorrect  but I can entirely understand why Mr M has 
reached the conclusion that the information he was given was over optimistic given what has 
happened over the intervening years.
The levels of expected investment performance used in quotations are set by the regulator. 
In 1996 those levels were far higher than the ones in use today. I havent seen the exact 
quotations that were provided to Mr M  but I have no doubts about what he says when he 
recalls being told that the AVC savings would allow him to retire early without experiencing a 
loss of pension income. But I think it likely the quotations Prudential would have provided 
were in line with the regulators expectations at the time. I cannot uphold a complaint simply 
because, with the benefit of hindsight, investments havent performed as they might have 
reasonably been expected to.The final response that Prudential sent to Mr M explained why it might not have been 
appropriate for him to use the added years option in 1996 when he was deciding how to 
make his additional contributions. I havent examined those arguments in any detail since 
I think the information Mr M was given about the added years option was sufficient. Just 
above where Mr M signed his application was a statement confirming hed been told about 
the other options and directing him to a booklet produced by the occupational scheme if he 
wanted more information. 
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for Mr M. In 1996 he had a reasonable 
expectation that, had he continued with his AVC payments up to retirement, he would have 
been able to retire early with no reduction to his pension income. That didnt actually 
happen, in part since Mr M stopped his AVC payments, but mainly due to changes in 
investments returns and annuity rates. But I think the advice and information that Prudential 
gave him at the time was reasonable, and in line with what I would expect.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman