DRN-2736424
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim under 
the personal belongings section of her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Os son was in a private members club when his rucksack was stolen while he was 
outside smoking. It contained several items of electronic equipment, amounting to 
approximately £800. So, she made a claim on her home insurance policy, under the 
personal belongings section. 
Lloyds declined the claim. They said cover for personal belongings whilst outside of the 
home is subject to them being in the policyholders control or custody; or locked away. As 
Mrs Os son had left his rucksack unattended whilst he went outside, and no other members 
of his party remained with the bag, they said the policy terms hadnt been met. 
Mrs O was unhappy with this decision, so she raised a complaint. She said the private 
members club is a secure environment where only members and their guests have access. 
So, she didnt think her son had acted unreasonably by leaving his rucksack unattended for 
a short time.  
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the policy terms and conditions were 
clear. And she wasnt persuaded that the rucksack was in Mrs Os sons control, custody or 
locked away. So, she was satisfied Lloyds had declined the claim fairly. 
But Mrs O doesnt agree. She says the policy condition is unfair as its not practical. She 
says even if her son was with the rucksack, he wouldnt be looking at it the whole time. And 
its not reasonable to expect anyone to do so. In addition, she says she wasnt made aware 
of the policy condition at point of sale. So, she believes the policy was mis-sold and has 
requested a refund of all premiums paid. 
As Mrs O didnt accept what our investigator said, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
As part of Mrs Os home insurance policy, she has personal belongings cover which insures 
her and her familys belongings for theft, loss or accidental damage when in or temporarily 
outside the home. The policy says that belongings are covered provided that: 
 the personal belongings are at all times in the control or custody of you or a 
member of your family, or left in hotel security, a locked safety deposit box, safe or 
similar locked fixed receptacle. 
This type of condition is not uncommon in insurance policies. The essence behind it is that 
items left unattended, or not in control of the policyholder, are at a higher risk of being stolen. 
This is not a risk that insurers like Lloyds are willing to cover. And I dont consider that to be 
unfair. Its reasonable for Lloyds to expect their policyholders to take care of their belongings 
when outside the home, and not put them at unnecessary or higher risk.
Ive thought about whether Lloyds has applied the policy condition fairly to this claim. And Im 
persuaded that they have. Ill explain why.
Whilst Ive considered Mrs Os arguments that the members club is a secure environment, I 
dont think it amounts to a safe or similar fixed locked receptacle. The rucksack wasnt in 
Mrs Os sons control or custody at the time of the theft, as he wasnt in the club at the time. 
Nor was it left with a member of security at the club, or a member of Mrs Os sons party. As 
such, I think its fair for Lloyds to conclude that the policy terms havent been met in these 
circumstances. 
I appreciate Mrs Os argument that it isnt reasonable to expect a person to be looking at 
their belongings at all times whilst outside the home. But I dont agree that this is what the 
policy requires. 
Mrs O has also said that she thinks the policy was mis-sold. This is not something Ive 
investigated as part of my decision. This is because Mrs O didnt raise this complaint point 
until after our service became involved. So, under our rules, we cant investigate and give an 
answer until the business has had the opportunity to do so first. 
If Mrs O does want to raise this concern, she would need to put this to back to Lloyds, or the 
business that sold her the policy, to investigate first before bringing it to our service.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman