DRN-3668844
The complaint
Mr J has complained, in summary, that Standard Life Assurance Limited was negligent in 
managing his pension fund. 
What happened
Mr Js complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She sent her assessment of 
the complaint to the parties on 11 August 2022. The background and circumstances to the 
complaint were set out in her assessment, and so I wont repeat it all here. However in brief, 
Mr J is a member of his employers Group Personal Pension Plan (GPP). He invested in 
Standard Lifes Passive Plus III Pension Fund  a default fund. The value of his fund was 
around £158,000 at the beginning of 2020. By December 2021 it was worth around 
£190,000, Mr J having made contributions to the plan during that period. 
Mr J complained to Standard Life about the plan at the end of 2021. He was unhappy with its 
performance, particularly since the start of the Covid 19 pandemic. 
Standard Life didnt uphold his complaint. Mr J then asked it a number of questions, and 
there followed a series of exchanges between Mr J and Standard Life. Mr J ultimately didnt 
accept Standard Lifes responses, and referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Js complaint should be upheld. In summary, she 
said Standard Life wasnt responsible for providing Mr J with advice about how his 
contributions should be invested. The investigator thought that Standard Life had stayed 
within the limits of its role. And it had made it clear that it couldnt provide Mr J with advice. 
The investigator said Standard Life couldnt have recommended Mr J to change how he 
invested his contributions or, as he had suggested, retain them in a bank account until 
markets improved. She noted Standard Life had pointed out that such a strategy risked lost 
investment growth when unit prices increased, and so was contrary to the basic principles of 
investing in a stock market related investment. 
The investigator said Standard Life had provided answers to numerous queries which Mr J 
had raised. She said the IGC (Independent Governance Committee) reports and the fund 
fact sheets had been produced in line with the regulators requirements, and Mr J had 
confirmed hed received them. The investigator said Mr J had complained he wasnt aware 
of the risks the fund was exposed to. But she thought the literature provided to Mr J provided 
several warnings that his capital was at risk. 
Mr J had suggested there should have been some kind of restrictions or limits in place to 
prevent the value of the investment falling. However the investigator said this type of fund 
wouldnt have such protections or limits and this was in line with the regulators 
expectations. She said the fund factsheet Mr J had referred to explained unit prices 
changed, and that could mean there were sharp rises and falls in the value of the capital and 
the funds werent guaranteed. The investigator said if Mr J was unhappy with how the fund 
managers had approached risk and had exceeded the level of risk Mr J was willing to 
accept, he had the option to switch to other funds.
The investigator said Standard Life werent responsible for ensuring the fund Mr J was 
invested in was suitable for him. She said although Mr J was in the default option which he 
had chosen to remain in since he had joined the scheme, he always had the option to switch 
funds. And there was a wide range of funds to choose from. She said both Standard Life and 
Mr Js employer had alerted Mr J that if he was unsure of his options he could contact a 
regulated financial adviser to provide advice about the matter.
The investigator also said although Mr J may have been unhappy with the performance of 
the fund, investment performance was dependent on many external factors which couldnt all 
be controlled by a fund manager. She said poor performance didnt necessarily mean the 
fund manager had been negligent or had managed the portfolio poorly. 
The investigator said given the longer-term nature of investments it was reasonable to 
expect that funds would fluctuate in value at various times over the investment period. She 
said this was particularly evident during the difficult conditions presented during the Covid 19 
pandemic. She said that it was easy to say, with hindsight, that things shouldve been done 
differently.
Overall, the investigator didnt think Standard Life had failed in its obligations towards Mr J 
as a member of the GPP.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigators findings. He said, in summary, that he wanted 
answers to a number of questions. He wanted to know if the fund used derivatives to reduce 
risk when the pandemic started? He said the answer needed an explanation of the outcome 
and effect. And confirmation of whether the position was monitored to lessen profit or loss? 
He wanted to know if there were negative limits in place for the actively manged funds? And 
what duty of care guidelines were currently in place? Mr J also wanted to know what controls 
and governance were in place both now and in the past to mitigate investment risk? 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and largely for the 
same reasons.
I appreciate that Mr J has concerns about the performance of the fund. It seems to me that 
Mr J thinks Standard Life should have done more, particularly during the Covid pandemic 
when the fund value fell significantly. And he thinks in not doing more, the fund was 
mismanaged. He has mentioned a number of things, for example that Standard Life didnt 
follow its duty of care when investing in funds which were negative in value for at least six 
months, or that it didnt have some form of restrictions in place to limit falling values.
Different funds will have different objectives, features and structures. Its for investors, with 
the help of their advisers if required, to decide which type of funds that they want to invest in. 
The fund Mr J was invested in didnt have the type of restrictions and limits that Mr J has 
referred to. It wasnt required or mandated to do what Mr J has suggested. Ive seen no 
evidence of a failure in the standard of reasonable care provided.
The manager(s) of the fund Mr J was invested in had quite a wide investment mandate. And 
a wide discretion to manage the fund in line with that mandate.  Mr J has asked whether or 
not derivatives were used to reduce risk when the pandemic started, and the effect if it had. The funds factsheet said, The funds may use derivative.  The use of derivates wasnt 
mandatory  it was merely an option and at the discretion of the manager(s). There wasnt a 
failure whether they were used or not. Their use wouldnt necessarily mean Mr Js fund value 
would now be higher in any event, because it would depend on what decisions were made 
and their timing. 
The same can be said of Mr Js suggestions to restrict losses in some way or cease 
investing contributions for a period of time. Its widely accepted that it is very difficult to time 
the market. Historically speaking, the market has increased in value over time, despite 
significant periodic falls in value. If funds are switched to cash for example after falls in 
values, that could crystalise losses. And the fund could lose out on gains if prices regained 
their previous levels or rose higher whilst the fund was in cash. Again, if contributions arent 
invested when unit prices fall and the buying price is lower, they miss out on the growth 
when unit prices recover. 
However there are no guarantees when investing in risk-based assets - that is the very 
nature of there being a risk. Its not clear to me whether Mr J has an expectation that 
professional fund managers can predict with certainty when prices are going to rise or fall.  
But decisions about what assets to buy, retain or sell (and when) come down largely to the 
fund managers opinion, using their knowledge and experience. 
Different professional managers may have different reasonable opinions. It is only after the 
event that that actual change in price (higher or lower) is known, and as I say there are no 
guarantees. Inevitably some managers will be right and some wrong. Investment returns will 
fluctuate, even between funds which might be classed as similar. A disappointing 
performance wont necessarily mean the fund hasnt been managed with the level of skill 
and care that investors are entitled to expect.
During the pandemic there was period of widespread and significant disruption to financial 
markets. And that adversely impacted on almost all classes of investments  both in terms of 
volatility and values. Those sorts of issues and their effects arent easy to predict. 
I appreciate that Mr J will be disappointed that all his questions havent been answered. 
Some of those questions relate to his employers governance committee which is a matter 
for that committee. 
However, my role here is to decide whether Standard Life has mismanaged Mr Js fund.  
The fund doesnt appear to have performed disproportionally badly compared to other similar 
type funds. And for the reasons Ive given, I dont think Standard Life was obliged to do the 
things that Mr J has suggested. 
Overall, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that would indicate that the fund hasnt been 
properly managed - I havent seen anything to suggest that was the case.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman