DRN-1536563
The complaint
Mr O and Miss M are unhappy with the early repayment charge (ERC) on their Nationwide 
Building Society mortgage.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has provided us with a copy of the screenshots that it says Mr O and Miss M 
would have seen when they applied online to change their mortgage rate. Mr O and Miss M 
have said These are not our screen shots, and not from our time. Whilst theyre clearly not 
the screenshots from Mr O and Miss Ms actual application (as Nationwide would have no 
reason to save those as it wasnt to know theyd later complain about the rate theyd chosen) 
Im satisfied the screenshots are from the time Mr O and Miss M applied. Mr O and Miss M 
applied on 8 February 2018 and the screenshots Nationwide has provided were from 
January 2018.
Mr O and Miss M have said This complaint is about syntax... as the screenshots explain 
the ERC as [X]% of the amount repaid. Mr O and Miss M say they logged into the online 
process a few times to fully understand the ERC as presented to them on the sales screens, 
and they say they believed the ERC would be a percentage of the money already paid in the 
fixed term.
Whilst the screenshot does say [X]% of the amount repaid it also says This information 
does not contain all of the details you need to choose a mortgage. Make sure that you read 
the separate key facts illustration before you make a decision. In any event the statement is 
grammatically correct as the ERC would only be charged once the amount had been repaid 
(whether that be a part-redemption, or a full redemption of the mortgage) so it would be 
X% of the amount repaid. It wouldnt be charged in advance of that redemption, so Mr O and 
Miss Ms preferred version of X% of what will be paid would be factually incorrect.
It would also not make sense for the ERC to be charged on the amount already paid as if 
that were the case a customer could repay their mortgage after making just one payment 
and the ERC would only be X% of that monthly payment; a very minimal amount. This 
wasnt Mr O and Miss Ms first fixed rate mortgage, and in all my experience Ive never seen 
an ERC calculated Mr O and Miss Ms way. If Mr O and Miss M were at all unsure about the 
contract they were entering into - which they obviously were as theyve said they logged in a 
few times to understand it fully - they should have contacted Nationwide to clarify their 
understanding.
Mr O and Miss M want us to disregard the information that was in the product conversion 
offer that they accepted, saying that was only produced at the very end of the process. 
When our investigator explained that the online system required them to review the product 
conversion offer before agreeing to the rate, Mr O and Miss M said that Nationwide covered 
themselves in the small print.
But this wasnt small print, it was the final page of the online application process and the 
print was the same size as all the rest. The full text stated:
Were pleased to offer you a new mortgage product, a copy of your Mortgage Offer is 
provided below to view. Youll need to read this before you go ahead with your switch. 
Once you have completed your application, well send a copy of the Mortgage Offer to 
you in the post.
Please select Continue below to pay your product fee and complete your application 
once you have read and understood your Mortgage Offer.
Please Note: If you do not complete your application, your product and rate will not be 
reserved.
Immediately beneath that was a link to open the offer which was entitled View Mortgage 
Offer. Then the section Confirm Consent which said Please confirm that all applicants 
have read and understood the Mortgage Offer and consent to this application with the 
options of Yes or No.
The mortgage offer said:
10. What happens if you do not want this product any more?
Early repayment charges
Early repayment charges are payable on this loan for the first 120 months. The table 
below is for illustrative purposes, and assumes a start date of 1st May 2018.
Please refer to the conditions below for the actual calculation method.
There was then a table setting out the ERCs on a reducing basic from 7% to 1% over the ten 
years the rate would run for, and cash examples of the ERC which ran from £12,605 for the 
first four years reducing to £1,801 in the final year.
 Then followed the explanations:
The early repayment charges shown are the maximum charges you could pay if you 
repay the loan, or transfer to another product, or exceed your overpayment allowance as 
detailed in section 11. The maximum charge you could pay is £12,605.00 based on the 
loan amount above, plus a Redemption Charge which is currently £65. If the interest rate 
for your mortgage, or interest rates in general, change then the maximum charge may 
change.
An early repayment charge is payable if you repay the mortgage or transfer to another 
product within the Benefit Period.
The early repayment charge will be calculated on the amount advanced (less any 
overpayments) if within the year of completion, or if not, on the balance of the mortgage 
at the last calendar year end, less any overpayments made since the last year end.
That was the contract Mr O and Miss M entered into, and it was clear the ERC would be calculated on the balance of the mortgage (or the amount repaid that triggered the ERC 
becoming due), not the monthly payments made up to that point. Its unfortunate that Mr O 
and Miss M didnt contact Nationwide when they were unsure about the ERC clause before 
they applied for the product, but I cant hold Nationwide liable for Mr O and Miss Ms decision 
not to do so.
Were not the regulator, and Ive no power under our rules to comment on, or otherwise 
determine, how financial businesses operate in general terms. Im satisfied the terms of the 
ERC are set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. There was no regulatory 
requirement for Nationwide to do any more, or to provide any further explanation. 
Finally, Mr O and Miss M have commented on how Nationwide handled their complaint in 
that it told them it didnt have the screenshots. Our rules set out the matters that we can look 
at as being; regulated activities, payment services, lending money, paying money by plastic 
card, and ancillary banking services. In addition, we can consider complaints about ancillary 
activities carried on in connection with the above.
The handling of complaints is not itself a regulated activity. Its something that the regulator - 
the Financial Conduct Authority - requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt enough to 
make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list of 
activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers.
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, for 
example, if the complaint handling was ancillary to something we have the power to 
consider. So we can, in theory, consider how Nationwide handled Mr O and Miss Ms 
complaint.
But there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about. As Ive not upheld Mr O and Miss Ms complaint it 
follows I cant uphold any complaint about how Nationwide handled the complaint.
My final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr O and Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman