DRN-3160052
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy at being repeatedly charged excessive overdraft fees that he didnt agree 
to. 
What happened
Mr M complained to HSBC that he was being charged excessive overdraft fees that he didnt 
agree to and that he has struggled for years financially because of it. HSBC said overdrafts 
are only applied if the customer agreed to the terms and conditions and that all charges have 
been applied correctly.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms concerns and reached the conclusion HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr M unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint 
be upheld. Mr M disagreed he wants HSBC to repay all the charges applied to his account. 
So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr M raised his complaint on 13 January 2020 in relation to charges applied to his account 
from 2008. Six years before he raised his complaint is 13 January 2014. And as the charges 
for use of the overdraft wouldve been notified to Mr M at the time they were being applied, I 
think he ought to have known enough to decide whether they were unfair or causing financial 
difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when he ought to be reasonably aware he 
had reason to complain (13 January 2017) provides Mr M with a longer period than the six 
year rule. As he didnt complain until 2020, I can only look at charges applied from 13 
January 2014. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Mr M has referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to his account. But before I go 
any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the various 
amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M if it 
applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr Ms account in circumstances where it was 
aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr M was experiencing financial 
difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr M fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr M unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Mr Ms statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
HSBC ought to have realised Mr M might have been experiencing financial difficulties prior 
to it being notified of this. 
Mr Ms statements show that Mr M was in credit far more than in overdraft and when Mr Ms 
account did become overdrawn this was quickly rectified with regular incoming payments. 
There were also significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary 
transactions. I accept this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr M wasnt experiencing financial 
difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have 
alerted HSBC to any potential financial difficulty
So, in these circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to 
proceed with adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mr Ms account 
was being used. And I dont think that HSBC treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably and this 
means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr M. But I he understands the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman