DRN-2405193
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly declined her claim for fire damage on 
her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs M suffered a serious fire at her property. But HDI declined a claim on her home 
insurance policy. HDI then avoided the policy (cancelled from the start) as it said Mrs M had 
made misrepresentations when she applied for the cover. She hadnt disclosed that 
someone living at the property had previously been made bankrupt.
Mrs M said a colleague, Mr K, would sometimes stay at her house when he wasnt working 
away. But Mr K wasnt a permanent resident. She hadnt mentioned Mr Ks bankruptcy when 
applying online for the insurance policy as she considered herself the only permanent 
occupier of the property. And she felt shed completed the application correctly. So she 
wants HDI to reinstate her insurance policy and consider her claim. 
HDI said Mrs M had confirmed that no one living at the property had been declared 
bankrupt. But that wasnt the case. HDI said itd looked at the statements provided by Mrs M 
and Mr K. And it felt they showed Mr K lived at the property and it was his permanent 
address. 
HDI said it took factors such as bankruptcy and CCJs into consideration when considering 
whether to offer insurance cover. Had it been aware of the facts it wouldnt have offered 
Mrs M a policy. Itd withdrawn its cover when itd become aware a resident at the property 
had been made bankrupt and had outstanding CCJs.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied with HDIs response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She considered whether Mrs M had taken reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when she took out her policy. And she looked at the 
questions Mrs M had answered when completing her application.
Our investigator said the questions asked on the insurers website were slightly different to 
the phrase used in the statement of fact. And she didnt feel Mrs M had misrepresented any 
information to HDI. So she felt HDI should reinstate the policy and consider the claim in line 
with its terms and conditions. And she upheld Mrs Ms complaint.
HDI didnt agree. When Mrs M applied online, she answered and confirmed that no one who 
lived in the property had been declared bankrupt or had any unsatisfied CCJs. So HDI said 
shed misrepresented the facts to allow her to obtain a quotation. The statement of fact, 
which included the phrase permanently living, was only produced after Mrs M had provided 
her earlier responses.
If shed responded accurately during the application, she wouldnt have received a quotation 
to accept and she wouldnt have received the statement of fact. HDI said just because Mr K 
worked away from home that didnt mean Mr Ms property wasnt the permanent place where 
he lived. The information provided by Mrs M and Mr K confirmed it was. 
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision to Mrs M and HDI.
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said:
In reviewing this complaint, Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). It sets out the obligations of a consumer when 
entering into an insurance contract and the remedies available to an insurer if a 
consumer fails to fulfil their obligations if it can show they made what the Act 
describes as a qualifying misrepresentation.
Under CIDRA Mrs M had to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when she applied for home insurance. If Mrs M made a misrepresentation, then it is 
for HDI to show this was a qualifying misrepresentation. To do this HDI needs to 
show she didnt take reasonable care and it wouldnt have offered her cover at all if 
she hadnt made the misrepresentation or wouldve have done so on different terms. 
When Mrs M applied online for her home insurance policy, she was asked various 
questions about herself and the property she wanted to insure. HDI used those 
answers to weigh up the risk of insuring the house. And it relied on the information 
being accurate. HDI believes Mrs M misrepresented the situation as she didnt 
declare that Mr K, who had been made bankrupt, was living at the same address. 
And HDI said it wouldnt have offered the insurance policy if Mrs M had made it 
aware of Mr Ks bankruptcy when she applied.
Ive carefully considered Mrs Ms responses. And Ive not seen anything to suggest 
she deliberately or recklessly misrepresented the situation when she confirmed no 
one else living at the property had been declared bankrupt. 
So I need to consider whether HDI was entitled to avoid Mrs Ms policy. HDI needs to 
show that by answering its question in the way she did Mrs M failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And I think its done this. One of 
the considerations under CIDRA is how clear the question the consumer was asked 
was. I think the question was clearly put and if she was uncertain Mrs M needed to 
check before making the declaration.
HDI says the statements its received from Mrs M and Mr K confirm he was living at 
the property. He received post there and was on the electoral roll at that address. So 
although he occasionally worked away the property was still his normal place of 
residence.
I appreciate Mrs M felt shed answered the questions correctly as she didnt consider 
Mr K to be a permanent resident at her property. But Mr K said he considered 
Mrs Ms home to be his main address. He also noted that Mrs M wasnt receiving a 
single person discount for council tax and hed been recorded as living there since 
2016 as well as being on the electoral roll at the address for a few years.
Im satisfied Mrs M ought to have clearly understood what she was being asked to 
confirm when she completed her application. And this means I think HDI has shown 
she failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. This means 
there was a qualifying misrepresentation and  in my opinion  HDI has the right to 
avoid the home insurance policy in accordance with CIDRA. This means, in effect, the policy never existed and HDI does not have to deal with the 
claim following the fire at the property. As CIDRA reflects our long-established 
approach to misrepresentation cases, I think allowing HDI to rely on it to avoid Ms Js 
policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint.
Subject to any further representations by Mrs M or HDI, my provisional decision was that I 
didnt intend to uphold this complaint.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision
Mrs M provided information to show Mr K had lived at a different property she owned from 
July 2017 to May 2019. Hed paid council tax and utility bills for that property. And hed 
sometimes stayed at his mothers. So it wasnt true to say hed been at the fire-damaged 
property for years. Mrs M said hed been negotiating a contract of work away and was 
staying with her temporarily when she applied for the insurance. And his new contract had 
only been cancelled after shed taken out the insurance policy. So she didnt feel shed made 
a misrepresentation.
HDI had no further comments to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular Ive carefully considered Mrs Ms detailed response to my provisional decision. 
Having done so, Im not persuaded I should change that decision. 
Mrs M has confirmed she is in a long-term relationship with Mr K. And in his statement to 
HDI he says, I have been asked where I consider my main address to be, and I would state 
here.. Mr K also confirms he receives post at the address, is not a lodger or tenant but 
rather Mrs Ms partner. Mr K says he stayed at another of Mrs Ms property during 2017 and 
2018 and did some work there, which is supported by the information provided by Mrs M.
But when Mrs M went online to search for an insurance policy in August 2019 I think it would 
be reasonable to say Mr K also lived at the property  whether or not he hoped to be working 
away again in the near future or had stayed elsewhere in the past. 
Mrs M feels that she gave her answers in good faith. She didnt consider Mr K when she 
answered the question have you or anyone living in the property been declared bankrupt. 
She considered herself the only permanent resident. And Mrs M says they were in a state of 
shock when they gave the interviews and statements to HDI following the fire. But I dont 
think the statements have been cherry-picked or taken out of context.
I do appreciate how upsetting this has been for Mrs M. But based on everything Ive seen I 
cant say HDI acted unfairly in taking the position that Mr K was living at Mrs Ms property  
and that she should have considered this when completing the online application and 
declared his bankruptcy. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Im satisfied HDI was entitled to avoid Mrs Ms policy in 
accordance with CIDRA. It asked a clear question and Mrs M didnt take reasonable care not 
to misrepresent her answer. And HDI has shown it wouldnt have offered the cover if itd 
known the facts about Mr K. This means  in effect  the policy never existed. And HDI does 
not need to deal with her claim after the fire at her property. Where an insurer has avoided a policy due to careless misrepresentation Id expect it to 
refund the premiums paid back to the date of avoidance. Following the fire I can see HDI 
arranged a £5000 no liability payment to help Mrs M find alternative accommodation. And it 
covered the cost of removing a chimney stack because of the risk of collapse, again without 
prejudice to liability. So I think HDI has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. And 
I wont be asking it to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman