DRN-3174614
The complaint
Miss R complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) closed her account and registered a 
fraud marker against her name.
What happened
What Miss R says
Miss R says that in February 2020 she received an email from Metro Bank saying that after 
reviewing her account it had decided not to offer her banking facilities. Metro Bank gave 
Miss R seven days notice of the closure of her account. Miss R called Metro Bank the day 
she received the email to find out why it was closing her account and was told her account 
had been used for fraudulent activity. Miss R told Metro Bank she had been checking her 
account and nothing had been paid in or out.
Miss R says she has no knowledge of any fraudulent activity on her account. She has 
explained that the closure of her account has caused her significant difficulties as she has 
been unable to open an alternative account and has experienced delays in respect of her 
student finance. Miss R would like Metro Bank to reopen her account and remove the fraud 
marker. 
What Metro say
Metro Bank say Miss R opened an account in October 2019. As a result of concerns Metro 
Bank began to monitor Miss Rs account from 15 February 2020 and after this it was notified 
by another financial institution that on 18 February 2020 an attempt was made to make a 
fraudulent credit of £1,600 into her account. As a result, Metro Bank say it acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of Miss Rs account in closing it and added a Cifas 
marker.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Miss Rs complaint didnt uphold it. In summary, she said 
that Metro acted reasonably in closing Miss Rs account and adding a Cifas marker. This 
was because:
- Miss R hasnt provided a plausible explanation for the attempt to credit her account 
with funds.
- Miss R set up a new payee using a one-time passcode the day before the attempted 
credit when she had £1.45 in the account. No funds were ever transferred to the new 
payee. 
- When Metro Bank spoke to Miss R about the account closure it was clear she was 
monitoring payments into the account. If Miss R was expecting a genuine payment 
the investigator said shed expect Miss R to question what would happen to it. 
- Miss Rs version of events had changed over time.
- The above points, together with the fraud report from the third-party bank saying its 
customer had been the victim of fraud, led the investigator to conclude Metro Bank 
acted reasonably in closing the account and adding a Cifas marker.  
Miss R didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. In summary, she said:
- When the investigator spoke to her she didnt explain herself clearly. Miss R 
explained that during the time her account was open she received regular payments 
of £150 to £200 from her dad in cash and she paid some of this into her account. At 
the time that Metro Bank closed her account she was expecting a transfer from her 
dad instead, because of the pandemic. But she only expected to receive £150 to 
£200 and certainly not £1,600. 
- Miss R says she didnt receive a text message about a new beneficiary and didnt 
know her account was being monitored.
- Miss R questioned why she is being blamed for the actions of another in paying 
funds into her account and asked what would happen if the funds werent fraudulent 
but were, for example, a present.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CIFAS marker
The type of Cifas marker that Metro Bank asked to be applied is for misuse of facility 
relating to the account being used to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker,
Metro Bank isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss R is guilty of a fraud 
or financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or
concern. Cifas guidance says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
So, I need to decide whether I believe Metro Bank had sufficient evidence to conclude that 
the money sent to Miss R was as the result of a fraud, and that on balance she was 
deliberately dishonest in relation to this, such that Metro Bank would be able to escalate its
concerns to Cifas. I think Metro Bank was entitled to do so, Ill explain why.
Metro Bank has provided evidence from another bank to say that its customer was tricked 
into paying money into Miss Rs account as part of a scam. Miss R denies any knowledge of 
how these funds came into her account. So, the question that remains is whether, on the 
balance of probabilities, I consider Miss R was involved in the transfer of these funds and 
whether she was deliberately dishonest. 
I consider Metro Bank acted reasonably in registering a Cifas marker because:
- The attempted credit of £1,600 was unusual for Miss Rs account. The account was 
opened with a cash payment of £90 but after that the most that was paid into the 
account was £60 in cash. 
- The day before the attempted fraudulent credit Miss R set up new payee at a time 
when she had a balance of £1.45 in her account. On balance, Im persuaded that 
Miss R set up this new payee as Ive seen evidence that demonstrates she was 
provided with a one-time password to do so. I appreciate Miss R says she didnt 
receive this, but Im satisfied from the evidence Ive seen that it was sent. No payment was made to the new payee at the time. The fact Miss R set up a new 
payee suggests to me that she was expecting to receive funds and that she intended 
to pass at least some of these funds on. Miss R has not provided an explanation for 
why she set up a new payee at this stage.  
- When Miss R called Metro Bank to find out why it had decided to close her account, 
she raised the fact that she had been checking her account and nothing had been 
paid in or out. Whilst it is expected that a customer will review their accounts 
regularly, Miss R wasnt receiving regular credits like wages or benefits into the 
account. The comment suggests Miss R was expecting a payment into her account.
The closure of Miss Rs account
It is generally for banks to decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to
provide, banking facilities to any particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to
do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer or require it to
compensate a customer whose account has been closed by a bank.
Banks should however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. In this case, Metro 
Bank closed Miss Rs account with seven days notice. In doing so, I consider Metro Bank 
applied its terms fairly. The terms say,
For any of the reasons set out below, we may:
-suspend, stop or reduce a service, facility or an account we provide;
We may take any of this action for the following reasons:
-if we think that:
othere has been fraud or other suspicious activity involving your account (or we 
suspect this to be the case.
Given what I have said above in respect of the Cifas marker, its clear that I consider Metro 
Bank had reason to suspect that Miss Rs account was being used for fraudulent purposes. 
Miss R has queried what would happen if the funds werent fraudulent but were a present. In 
these circumstances there wouldnt have been a fraud report from another financial 
institution and Miss R would be able to evidence where the funds came from, so there 
wouldnt be a problem. For completeness, I will also add that Metro didnt need to tell Miss R 
it was monitoring her account. 
Overall, I consider Metro acted fairly and reasonably in closing Miss Rs account and in 
registering a Cifas marker.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman