DRN-4361138
The complaint
Mr W complains that a car he acquired through a  conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer UK plc (Santander) wasnt fit for purpose. He would like to reject it.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here, instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr W took out an agreement for a new car, as such he could reasonably have 
expected it to be fault free. When issues arise within the first six months we usually 
say its the business responsibility to see if issues are point of sale ones for which it 
is responsible. And we usually say its reasonable to allow one opportunity to repair.
 I appreciate Mr W feels he raised issues within the first month of having the car so 
on that basis should be able to reject it. The right to reject within 30 days isnt 
absolute and although Mr W raised some  issues with the dealership when he got the 
car  a query over the specification and a scratch - I dont feel these  are matters that 
would have allowed rejection at that point. Neither do I feel that raising these issues 
meant the 30-day window remained open.
I dont agree the car was mis represented to Mr W. There is one difference between 
the demonstrator vehicle and Mr Ws. But from what I understand it seems the 
dealership didnt realise there was a difference so I dont believe there was a 
deliberate attempt to mislead Mr W. I also understand the UK specification for the car 
never included a driver monitoring system. Finally, I have seen no evidence Mr W 
raised this with Santander or with our service  which I would have expected him to do 
if the primary reason for getting the car was to have this feature.
When Mr W raised issues with the car with Santander it  arranged an independent 
inspection which is what I would have expected it to do. Mr W also arranged an 
independent inspection. Reports from both inspections confirm excessive noise when 
travelling at speed needing  diagnosis and repair, and that this issue would have 
been present at the point of sale. I dont agree that Santander has already had one 
failed attempt to repair this. From the dealership notes I understand this issue was 
noted and was awaiting a resolution from the manufacturer which has now been 
provided.
Santanders report also noted an issue with the door lock operation. It found the 
tendency for the car to pull the left  noted in Mr Ws inspection, was the normal 
results of the car following the camber on the road. It was unable to replicate, 
shaking when driving at speed, noted in Mr Ws report. I cant reasonably conclude, 
given the difference between the two reports on these two points, that these are 
faults for which Santander is responsible.
Based on all this information I do think there were two point of sale issues with Mr 
Ws car  an issue with the locking system and the excessive noise when travelling at 
speed. I think its reasonable that Santander has one opportunity to repair these 
issues in a timely manner for Mr W.
I appreciate Mr W has told us he has stopped using the car it, but I havent seen any 
evidence that issues with the car made it unsafe to drive. So, I think a refund  of 10% 
of the payments Mr W has made to compensate him for the loss of use and 
enjoyment of the car, as our investigator recommended, is fair
Finally, I have noted that Mr W has raised an issue with the heating system but he 
hasnt provided any evidence of this. Neither was this raised in the inspection report . 
If Mr W can get some evidence of this he needs to put this to SCF in the first instance 
.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint
In full and final settlement Santander Consumer (UK) plc should :-
Arrange for, and cover the cost of ,repairs to the car as identified in Santanders 
independent report
Refund 10% of the monthly payments Mr W has made to compensate for loss of use 
and enjoyment of the car with 8% simple yearly interest to be added from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement on the amounts refunded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman