DRN-3278741
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a Select Account (SA) in 2004, a Platinum Account 
(PLA) in 2005 and a Premier Account (PRA) in 2010 by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
The facts are in not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before opening any fee-paying accounts, Mr B had used a fee free account with Lloyds, so 
he knew these were available. And fee free accounts with overdrafts were widely available 
and advertised by Lloyds and other financial institutions at the time of all the sales.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr B knew he had a choice whether to open a fee-
paying account and he chose to do so on every sale.
Lloyds says it recommended the fee-paying accounts on each occasion, and so it was 
required to check that they were suitable for him and provide him with enough information to 
make an informed decision about them.
And I think its more likely than not that it did for the SA and PLA sales. 
I say this because Mr B had incurred charges on his fee free account before he took the SA 
and looking at his account records following the SA sale, he clearly benefited from the £50 
free overdraft facility. He also says he had a car at the time so wouldve been able to use the 
car breakdown service if needed. So, I think he had been informed about the SA and I cant 
say it was unsuitable for him.
When Mr B took out the PLA in 2005, he also went on to use the overdraft facility, the car 
breakdown service and register for the mobile phone cover. So, again I think hed received 
enough information and I cant say the product was unsuitable for him.
Lloyds has conceded that it mis-sold the PRA but has also provided evidence that Mr B 
continued to use the main benefits of the PLA. So, I think Lloyds offer to pay him the 
difference between the cost of the two products is a fair one.
So, although I know Mr B will be disappointed, I think Lloyds response to Mr Bs complaint 
has been fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint to this service.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman