DRN-3862209
The complaint
Miss F complains about how Somerset Bridge Insurance Services Limited, treading as Go 
Skippy cancelled her motor insurance policy.
Somerset Bridge acted in capacity as an intermediary/broker here.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Miss F and Somerset Bridge. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Miss F had a motor insurance policy which she paid for by a separate finance agreement 
with a different third party business. On 13 October 2021, Miss F missed a payment.
Somerset Bridge let Miss F know that shed need to make payment, both in writing and via 
SMS by 20 October 2021 at 5pm - or the policy would be cancelled. Miss F called Somerset 
Bridge and they say she was given the contact details for the finance provider. On 21 
October 2021 the policy was cancelled as payment still hadnt been made.
On 27 October, Miss F got in touch with Somerset Bridge to make the payment but was 
unhappy as she said shed not been told that the policy would be cancelled and shed been 
unable to make payment. Somerset Bridge let her know that the outstanding balance of, 
£255.17 was now due. This consisted of the monthly instalments due and associated 
cancellation charges. Somerset Bridge later offered to waive the £75 cancellation fee.
Miss F complained that she wouldnt be paying the outstanding debt (£180.17) and that she 
hadnt received or signed the terms of business when she took this policy out. Somerset 
Bridge offered a repayment plan for Miss F to repay the outstanding debt. 
Somerset Bridge didnt uphold the complaint and Miss F referred it to our Service for an 
independent review. Our investigator upheld the complaint and, as Somerset Bridge didnt 
accept their recommendations, the complaint was referred to me for a decision.
I recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, intended findings outlining why I didnt 
intend to uphold this complaint. As the deadline for responses has now passed, Ive 
reconsidered the complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. My decision only considers 
the actions of Somerset Bridge here and the cancellation of this policy addressed in the final 
response letter dated 25 November 2021 - not any debt collection afterwards or the actions 
of any third party business  such as the credit provider.
Both parties have had an opportunity to respond to my recent provisional decision. Somerset 
Bridge havent responded by the deadline set, but Miss F did. Ive summarised her 
responses below:
Shed been advised by Somerset Bridge to call back once payment had been made 
to remove the chaser. She thought theyd have made a note to allow her time to get 
hold of the finance provider. 
Miss F did have evidence of her calls to the finance company - but was never asked 
for this.
The cancellation times fluctuated compared to the previous month when a payment 
was late. 
She wasnt given the terms and conditions.
She wasnt experiencing negative financial changes. She always made payment 
around the 20th of each month as that was when she got paid.
She let Somerset Bridge know she couldnt get through to the finance company, but 
this was after the cancellation. 
Unfortunately for Miss F, her further comments dont change the outcome Ive reached. I 
wont comment in depth on each point raised as Ive (broadly) already made findings on 
these issues. 
Miss F unfortunately presumed that Somerset Bridge would do something they didnt and - in 
my opinion, didnt need to do here. The call note from 20 October (referenced later in the 
decision) refers to Miss F needing to call Somerset Bridge when payment was made. No 
reference is made to extending the deadline to allow more time to contact the finance 
provider. Therefore, the original deadline stood.
As already explained, Im satisfied the consequences of non-payment were made clear and, 
even in a scenario where Miss F didnt read the terms and conditions, its not been disputed 
that she received  the necessary communication from Somerset Bridge (email, sms or letter) 
that outlined what would happen. 
Im not considering the terms of the finance agreement with the third-party company, but 
Miss F entered into a contract of insurance here too and Ive seen no evidence that she 
raised the payment dates as an issue or raised this with Somerset Bridge or the finance 
company. 
As no new evidence has been provided that materially changes the outcome of this 
complaint, my findings from my provisional decision are still relevant here. 
The terms of this policy allowed Somerset Bridge to cancel the insurance policy where the 
policy holder failed to make payment:
We reserve the right to cancel this Policy immediately on written notice in the event 
of non-payment of the premium. If You are paying the premiums monthly and You 
fail to pay an instalment when due, or fail to maintain a Direct Debit Mandate 
and such default is not corrected within the time permitted by the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, the whole of the outstanding balance will become due and 
payable. If this sum is not paid within seven days, the insurance cover will be 
cancelled. [Bold added for emphasis by Ombudsman]Whilst the terms may allow the action Somerset Bridge have taken here, I still need to 
consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. (DISP 3.6.1).
Ive carefully considered what Somerset Bridge have said, including:
.the customer called us the day before her policy was set to cancel. The fact that 
the customer called us shows they were aware, and that the steps we took allowed 
them more than enough time, and were effective enough, to contact us and take 
rectifying action.
Miss F has argued that she didnt know the policy would be cancelled until she contacted 
Somerset Bridge and was told the policy had been cancelled on 21 October. But Ive seen a 
copy of a letter dated 13 October 2021 which clearly outlined the deadline of 20 October 
2021 at 5pm and what Miss F needed to do before then to avoid cancellation. Evidence has 
also been provided that Somerset Bridge sent a text message on 13 October at 15.31 
alerting Miss F to an important email and that she needed to take action to remain covered.
Ive also considered call notes from a conversation Miss F had with Somerset Bridge on     
20 October which stated: gave ph [policy holder] number to call [finance company name 
redacted by Ombudsman] and inf once pmt made must call us so we can remove chaser.
Although Miss F has said she wasnt made aware of the cancellation terms when she took 
this policy out, Im satisfied that the policy terms and terms of business made this information 
sufficiently clear and Somerset Bridge have said the information wouldve been sent to her 
as well as being available on the customer portal.
Overall, Im satisfied that Miss F was provided with the relevant information here and she 
ought to have been reasonably aware that the policy would be cancelled if payment wasnt 
made by the deadline given.
That said, I find that the actions of Somerset Bridge in cancelling this policy seven days after 
the missed payment to be unfair. I say this because Id expect to have seen Somerset 
Bridge give Miss F a fair opportunity to sort things out before it cancelled the policy seven 
days later.
Ive then considered whether  in the specific circumstances of this complaint if it would have 
likely made a difference to the end result here  if Miss F had been given more time. That is, 
would Miss F have likely made payment if shed had longer before the policy was cancelled?
For example - if shed had fourteen days instead of seven. Based on what Ive seen, on 
balance, I dont think it would have made a difference. I say this because:
in her complaint form, Miss F has said she was late making payment as she was 
waiting to get paid and (after my provisional decision) she has confirmed that she 
wasnt experiencing a negative change in her personal financial circumstances; and
whilst Somerset Bridge told Miss F to call the finance company, she says she was 
unable to get hold of them. But to date, she hasnt provided supporting evidence of 
her attempts to contact the finance company prior to the deadline. Id reasonably 
have expected if she was aware of the consequences of not making payment by the 
deadline and shed been unable to get through to the finance company shed have let 
Somerset Bridge know or produced proof of this when this complaint event first 
arose.
As referenced above, if paying on a certain date was going to be an ongoing issue, a reasonable amount of responsibility rested with Miss F to let either Somerset Bridge 
or the finance company know.
It follows that in the specific circumstances of this complaint, although I find that Somerset 
Bridge acted prematurely when cancelling this policy seven days after the missed payment, 
they dont need to do anything further to put things right here  for the reasons Ive outlined 
above.
Other points raised
Somerset Bridge waived the £75 cancellation fee and I find this to be fair. As outlined by our 
Investigator, other charges are still relevant as set out in the terms of business that Miss F 
agreed to when taking out this policy.
The offer of a four month repayment plan was also fair and reasonable. If the debt remains 
outstanding, Miss F should make arrangements with Somerset Bridge to agree a way 
forward.
Miss F expressed dissatisfaction with the service provided by Somerset Bridge, but Ive not 
seen sufficiently persuasive evidence to conclude that the service provided was poor to the 
extent that compensation would be appropriate for this reason.
My decision will disappoint Miss F, but it brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve this dispute between her and Somerset Bridge 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman