DRN-3532770
The complaint
Ms V says Avantia Insurance Limited trading as Homeprotect mis-sold her home insurance.
What happened
Ms V took out a home insurance policy through Avantia in July 2021. Ms V spoke to Avantia 
at length during the sale, including informing them that she had a lodger. Avantia explained 
to Ms V that having a lodger meant she wouldnt be covered for accidental damage.
Ms V subsequently made a claim on her policy for damage to an underground pipe. The 
claim was rejected on the basis that damage to underground pipes falls under the accidental 
damage part of the policy.
Ms V wasnt happy with that, she said it wasnt made clear to her during the sale. She also 
said that accidental damage is more commonly for things like spillages or damage to 
sanitaryware. Ms V said her lodger has nothing to do with the underground pipe and that its 
nonsensical for the cover to be restricted in that way. Ms V is also unhappy that solar panels 
fall under the accidental damage section.
An investigator here looked into the matter and said they felt the sale had been sufficiently 
clear. But Ms V still didnt agree so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important for me to clarify that Avantia only sold the policy, they arent the insurer. Its 
the insurer who is responsible for deciding what cover is provided and what restrictions apply 
in relation to lodgers. So, in this case Im limited to looking at what Avantia was responsible 
for.
The sale of Ms Vs policy was conducted on a non-advised basis which means Avantia had 
to provide her with enough information for her to decide for herself whether or not the policy 
was suitable.
During the aforementioned phone call, Avantia informed Ms V that accidental damage would 
be excluded from cover due to her having a lodger. It seems clear to me that Ms V believed 
accidental damage cover to be for relatively minor issues as she mentioned that with a £250 
excess, she didnt feel it was required.
So, its clear to me that Ms V understood she didnt have accidental damage cover. That 
means I now need to consider whether it was made clear enough what claims would fall 
under accidental damage. I do understand Ms Vs point that she would commonly associate 
accidental damage with minor incidents, but such cover can commonly be wide-ranging and 
include both significant losses and costly repairs.
I think its often the case that basic accidental damage cover is only for things like spillages 
or damage to sanitaryware, although looking at Ms Vs policy the basic cover includes 
underground pipes and solar panels.
In any event, Ms V understood that she didnt have accidental damage cover, her insurance 
schedule confirmed this and also explained that she should check the cover met her needs. I 
dont think it would have been particularly difficult to at least review the sections which were 
specifically excluded. And those sections are clear in what they provide cover for, so I dont 
consider this to be an instance where policy details could be said to be buried in small print.
Overall, while I understand Ms Vs frustration, I dont think I can uphold her complaint 
because Avantia provided her with clear enough information.
In closing though, I suggest Ms V may wish to double check with Avantia, or her insurer, 
whether her solar panels would be covered in the event of storm. She has raised concern 
that they wouldnt be, but storm is in a separate section of the policy from accidental damage 
 so it may be best for her to check.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman