DRN-1823708
The complaint
The estate of Mr A complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC and their failure to locate a 
dormant account. 
What happened
Mr A held an account with Barclays in the 1970s. Unfortunately, Mr A passed away in early 
1979.
In 2014, Barclays wrote to the estate of Mr A asking them for details of Mr As account. The 
estate responded in early 2019, providing information they felt showed the account 
contained £34,881.12 when Mr A passed away. So, they asked Barclays to locate the 
account and release this amount to the estate.
As the account hadnt been used for a significant period of time, Barclays used the 
information they were provided to search their dormant account register. They explained this 
register is where any account that has a credit balance, that hasnt been used for a certain 
period of time, is placed indefinitely. But, they were unable to find any trace of Mr As 
account. So, Barclays explained it was most likely that the account balance was withdrawn 
and the account closed before Mr As passing.
The estate of Mr A were unhappy with this explanation so they raised a complaint. They 
thought theyd provided enough information to show the account had a balance when Mr A 
passed away. They were unhappy Barclays were unable to provide the digitised account 
details they felt shouldve been available. They were also unhappy with the length of time it 
took Barclays to search for the account and thought this had impacted the estate. So, they 
wanted the full account balance to be paid and some of the legal costs the estate had 
incurred to be paid.
Barclays didnt agree. They explained they again they were unable to find an account on the 
dormant account register so maintained their belief that the balance had been withdrawn 
before Mr As passing. They also explained they were unable to provide any account 
information, such as the transaction history, as that information was more than six years old 
so hadnt be kept. But, they agreed they hadnt responded as quickly as they couldve as 
theyd misplaced some information the estate had sent. They didnt offer anything to 
recognise this as this delay impacted the estate rather than Mr A directly. The estate of Mr A 
were unhappy with this response so they referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Barclays had 
done all they could to locate Mr As account on the dormant account register. He explained 
he wouldnt expect Barclays to still hold information such as the account history due to the 
length of time it had been since the account had been used. And as the estate of Mr A were 
only able to provide account information up to early 1978, and Mr A passed away in early 
1979, he thought it was most likely Mr A had withdrawn the account balance within the time 
in between. He also recognised the delays in Barclays response but explained that as a 
service were unable to provide trouble and upset payments to the estate of a customer. So, as he didnt think there had been a financial loss to the estate, he didnt think Barclays 
needed to do anything further.
The estate of Mr A didnt agree with this view. They maintained that Mr As account had a 
balance and Barclays shouldve been able to provide more information as it was Barclays 
who wrote to them in 2014. They also thought the legal costs the estate incurred should still 
be considered. As the estate of Mr A didnt agree, the complaints has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to the estate of Mr A. Ive no doubt 
they believe Mr As account still held a balance when he passed away and so I can 
understand why they feel so frustrated at not being able to access funds they believe are 
due to them. But, its my role to decide whether I think Barclays have acted fairly and 
reasonably when investigating the claim that Mr As account still had a credit balance, based 
on the information they had available. And in this situation, I think they have.
Ive considered all of the information thats been provided to me by both Barclays and the 
estate of Mr A. The information provided by the estate of Mr A shows clearly that Mr A held 
an account with Barclays and that it contained a significant balance. So, its not in dispute 
that Mr A did have an account with Barclays before his passing. But, crucially, this 
information only provided details of the account up until early 1978. Mr A passed away in 
early 1979, meaning there was a period of time where Im unable to see how the account 
was managed, and whether Mr A paid any money in or made any withdrawals.
Barclays have confirmed that any account with an outstanding balance not used for a period 
of time will be transferred to their dormant account register, where it will remain indefinitely. 
Theyve sent me screenshots of their attempts to search the details theyve been provided 
for Mr A which fail to bring up any results on that system. So, I dont think Mr As account 
was placed onto this register.
So, I have to consider the information and decide what I think has most likely happened. 
Although I understand the estate of Mr As comments about Barclays failing to provide a 
digitised account history, I wouldnt expect this information to be available due to the length 
of time its been since Mr As passing. Businesses are expected to keep records such as this 
for up to six years. But, due to data protections rules, they are also expected to ensure they 
arent keeping information that isnt necessary. So, I dont think Barclays have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably by not being able to gather the account information the estate requested.
I think if Mr As account had a credit balance when he passed away, it wouldve been 
transferred eventually onto the dormant account register. As it is not on this register, and 
there is a period of time between the last account information available and his passing, I 
think its most likely that Mr A withdrew the funds and closed the account. Because of this, I 
dont think Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably by not being able to trace the 
account. So, I dont think they need to do anything further. 
Ive also considered the estate of Mr As comments about the delays caused by Barclays 
when searching for Mr As account. Barclays have admitted themselves they lost information 
which led to a delay. So, its not in dispute that the service they provided fell below a 
reasonable level. But, this service is unable to direct businesses to make compensatory payments for trouble 
and upset to an estate and its executors or representatives. Were only able to direct awards 
such as this when the customer themselves have been impacted by the service they 
received. In this situation, Mr A wasnt impacted by the delay although I do appreciate the 
frustration the executors and representatives of the estate wouldve experienced. 
We can look to award compensation for financial losses to the estate if theres been an error 
by a business. But in this situation, Ive seen no evidence to show the financial losses the 
estate has incurred by the delay Barclays created. So, I dont think Barclays need to do 
anything further.
I understand this decision isnt the outcome the estate of Mr A had hoped for and that it will 
be disappointing considering the sensitive nature of how the complaint has arisen. But I 
hope the decision has been able to provide some closure to those involved in the estate.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold the estate of Mr As complaint about Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr A 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman