DRN-3589710
The complaint
Miss C and Mr E are unhappy that TSB Bank plc (TSB) declined their mortgage application 
then recorded markers against them on a fraud prevention database. 
What happened
Miss C and Mr E applied for a mortgage with TSB in February 2020 via a broker which was 
declined. TSB requested proof of income for both Miss C and Mr E, but after carrying out 
various checks on their income they couldnt verify it.  So they placed markers on National 
Hunter. 
Miss C and Mr E complained to TSB who responded on 28 May 2020 and said they didnt 
make an error.  But they let Miss C and Mr E know that if they provided further information in 
the form of an employment history letter from HMRC for tax years 2018  2019 and 2019 - 
2020, confirming both incomes, they would review the markers.
Miss C and Mr E provided this information, and TSB removed the markers in July 2020.
Miss C and Mr E have said that as a result of these markers, they were unable to obtain a 
mortgage with another lender. They would like to be reimbursed for costs they have incurred 
for application and broker fees as well as for their rental payments due to the fact they had 
already sold their property. 
Miss C and Mr E referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators who thought that TSB had sufficient grounds to add the 
markers based on the information they had at the time the application was made. So she 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss C and Mr E disagreed with the investigator and in summary, made the following 
comments:
If they knew there were markers against them, they would never have made any 
further applications until they were removed. TSB never informed them they were 
there and they only found out about them later on. They incurred costs due to the 
incorrect markers being placed
Their other mortgage application was declined purely because of the markers. 
Lenders are using these markers as a red flag to decline applications, so TSB is 
responsible for this
They dont agree with the investigator that a previous application had been declined 
prior to the one they made with TSB
The fact that HMRC information was not up to date, does not mean their application 
was fraudulent. TSB concluded it was and placed the markers on the database
As Miss C and Mr E disagreed with our investigator, they asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 10 June 2022. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders should only record information on fraud prevention databases where they 
have reasonable grounds to do so. We would expect them to have clear evidence 
that they have relied upon before applying any markers. Ive looked at what TSB 
have done in Miss C and Mr Es case, to decide if they acted fairly.
TSB had to assess Miss C and Mr Es income in order to approve the application 
they made in February 2020. TSB have told us they were unable to verify the 
income, namely that of Mr E.  They said they noted that Mr E had been employed 
with his current employer since September 2019 but the payslips they were provided 
with, didnt reflect the income declared on the application in the year to date figure. 
Having looked at notes that TSB sent us,  it seems they were mindful that Mr E may 
have been on a lower salary in his previous role, so they didnt place the markers on 
the fraud prevention database at this time, but they requested further information 
from Miss C and Mr E. TSB asked for three months payslips and corresponding 
bank statements showing salary credits and the previous two years P60s  2018 and 
2019. They also asked for both Miss C and Mr Es P45s and proof of equity deposit. 
After TSB reviewed the information provided, they still felt there were discrepancies 
in the information that had been provided, so they applied the fraud markers on the 
fraud prevention database.
Miss C and Mr E have since been able to provide the further information that TSB 
asked for since the markers were applied, and TSB have been able to verify their 
income, so they removed the markers in July 2020. TSB asked for information for the 
tax year 2019  2020 and this information wouldnt have been available from HMRC 
until after the tax year had ended in April 2020 which I understand.
However, its not clear why TSB didnt ask more questions at the time of the 
application to satisfy their requirements. It seems they relied on their own verification 
checks and decided that they couldnt verify the income, so they placed the markers 
against Miss C and Mr E. I dont think this was enough to justify applying the 
markers. 
The discrepancies were mostly surrounding Mr Es income. TSB said they assessed 
the payslips Mr E provided for November and December 2019, but the November 
payslip still had discrepancies in the year to date figure. 
TSB also said that the corresponding bank statements provided for Mr E showed that 
payments from his employer didnt match what was on the payslip. TSB also said 
that for Miss C, there were discrepancies in her year to date figure too that was 
showing on the payslips. 
Having looked at the payslips in question, the bank statements for Mr E do reflect the 
same amount going in from the employer, which is the same as what is shown on the 
payslip. The October and November 2019 payslip show credits of £5,636.68 which is 
the same as what is showing on the bank statement. So its not clear to me what TSB 
had concerns about. And the year to date figure was never going to match because 
Mr E had changed jobs partway through the year. 
I think that Miss C and Mr E couldve explained their situation and the discrepancies 
if they had just been asked  but they werent. And had they have been asked, I think 
it should have been clearer to TSB why there were in fact discrepancies.
So I dont think its fair that TSB applied the markers in the first place. So I am 
intending on upholding this complaint. Miss C and Mr E have asked for costs to be reimbursed and Ive thought carefully 
about how TSB should put things right for them.
I am intending on directing TSB to pay for any application fees that Miss C and Mr E 
have incurred, which were not refunded at the time, because of the way the 
application was handled by TSB. 
But I dont think that the broker fees should be refunded. This is because Miss C and 
Mr E chose to approach a broker to find them a suitable mortgage. And even though 
TSB mishandled the application, there is never any guarantee of a mortgage being 
approved and there are a number of other reasons why TSB may have declined the 
application. So I wont be asking TSB to refund these costs. 
With regards to the rental payments that Miss C and Mr E have paid, I dont think that 
these should be refunded. I understand that their property was sold and they had to 
rent while things were sorted out, but there was never any guarantee that they would 
have been able to get a mortgage approved in time before they sold their property. 
So I wont be asking TSB to do anything more with regards to this. 
I am also intending on asking TSB to pay Miss C and Mr E £300 for the trouble and 
upset they were caused. This situation caused Miss C and Mr E stress and 
frustration which has had some impact on them. 
For completeness, having looked at the information that has been provided, I cant 
see that Miss C and Mr E did in fact have an application declined prior to applying to 
TSB. I thought it was best to clarify this as it was something that Mr E was concerned 
about.
Although I am intending on upholding this complaint, I wanted to clarify the points 
below. 
I understand that Miss C and Mr E are unhappy that TSB didnt inform them that the 
fraud markers was applied against them. Lenders do not have to notify borrowers if 
markers have been applied against them. There is no requirement for them to do so. 
And I do note that Miss C and Mr E said they were declined by another lender after 
their application was declined by TSB and they feel very strongly that they were only 
declined because of the marker. 
Lenders who use National Hunter shouldnt automatically decline an application just 
because of a marker. That is set out in their guidance. I understand that Miss C and 
Mr E feel very strongly about this, because they dont agree that lenders wouldnt act 
on this information otherwise there would be no point in adding the marker, but the 
guidance is very clear around this subject. I therefore cannot hold TSB responsible 
for this. This is the reason why I wont be asking TSB to refund any application fees 
or broker fees in relation to the other lender. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I am intending on directing TSB Bank Plc to:
Reimburse any application costs that Miss C and Mr E have incurred in trying 
to arrange their mortgage with TSB plus 8% simple interest from the date the 
fees were paid until date of settlement 
Pay Miss C and Mr E £300 for the trouble and upset they were caused
Developments
Miss C and Mr E responded to the provisional decision. They said the compensation wasnt 
the amount they were hoping for, but it was more important to them that it was 
acknowledged that there had been an error made. TSB also responded and they disagreed with what I had said. TSB raised various points as 
to why they disagreed, based on the investigations they had completed at the time. They 
didnt think they did anything wrong in recording the fraud markers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought very carefully about the information that TSB have provided us since the 
provisional decision but what they have said doesnt change my mind. Ill explain why.
TSB have raised various points as to why they applied the fraud markers, but they have 
accepted that Miss C and Mr E didnt act fraudulently, given that they have taken the 
markers off. As I already said in my provisional decision, lenders should only record 
information on fraud prevention databases where they have clear, rigorous evidence of fraud 
or dishonesty for financial gain. And lenders are entitled to carry out their own checks in 
order to satisfy their requirements.
I have noted that after making their enquires, TSB wasnt satisfied that the income on both 
applicants payslips reflected the amount they had earned for the relevant tax year. As I 
already mentioned, this was always going to be the case as their employment history had 
changed. It wasnt until TSB requested employment history letters from HMRC confirming 
Miss C and Mr Es income, that the fraud markers were removed. 
There are various concerns that TSB have raised but I still think they should reasonably 
have asked further questions at the time the application was made, to understand Miss Cs 
and Mr Es circumstances. They were able to verify their income in July 2020 after obtaining 
the letters from HMRC so its evident that there wasnt an issue with the income of Miss C 
and Mr E. I still believe questions should have been asked at the time in order for TSB to 
satisfy themselves that what Miss C and Mr E were telling them was in fact correct.
Ive noted what TSB have said about Miss C and Mr Es income and the concerns they had, 
but I dont find that they had clear, rigorous and relevant evidence of dishonesty or fraud. So 
I dont think they had reasonable grounds to record the markers. Suspicions arent good 
enough and like I said, TSB should have asked additional questions of Miss C and Mr E at 
the time, before applying those markers. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and 
require TSB Bank Plc to:
Reimburse any application costs that Miss C and Mr E have incurred in trying 
to arrange their mortgage with TSB plus 8% simple interest from the date the 
fees were paid until date of settlement Pay Miss C and Mr E £300 for the trouble and upset they were caused
If TSB Bank Plc deducts tax from any interest it pays to Miss C and Mr E as above, they 
should provide Miss C and Mr E with a tax deduction certificate, so they can reclaim the tax 
from the tax authorities if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman