DRN-2983180
The complaint
B Ltd complained about delays by HSBC UK Bank Plc, when it tried to open a  business 
bank account.
  
What happened
On 21 May 2020 B Ltd, represented by its directors Mr G and Mr Y, applied to HSBC to open 
a business bank account. 
In the next few weeks, Mr G and Mr Y submitted various identification documents as 
requested by HSBC. They sent identification documents electronically on 2 June, but these 
went to a central inbox and HSBC didnt accept them. On 13 June, Mr G and Mr Y applied 
again online, sending all the identification and verification of address requested.
HSBCs records show that it completed its screening checks on 19 June, and sent  the 
application to one of its Business Specialists for review on 26 June. A business specialist 
picked up the case on 6 July. There is an anomaly here because HSBC also said it tried to 
contact B Ltd on 2 July, but this was before the necessary business specialist had picked up 
the case.
HSBCs notes record that:
- the business specialist tried to contact B Ltd on 16 July, but wasnt able to get 
through. The notes dont show what number was called, or whether any message 
was left;
- the business specialist tried again on 3 August but couldnt contact B Ltds 
representative. Again, the notes dont show what number was called, or whether any 
message was left.
The notes then record that the application was dropped.
On 19 August, B Ltd complained. They said they were deeply disappointed because theyd 
heard nothing about their application which theyd submitted in May.
HSBC sent its final response to B Ltds complaint on 24 August. It said it had tried to contact 
B Ltd on 2 July, 16 July and 3 August without success, so it had closed the application. It 
said it had had a backlog because of a surplus of applications, and said it invited B Ltd to 
apply again  but it couldnt confirm any timescales about when any account would be 
opened.
On 3 September, Mr G and Mr Y replied that theyd checked their emails and phone records 
and there had been no attempts by HSBC to contact them. 
They didnt get a reply. They chased on 10 September, 6 October and 7 November. HSBC 
never replied.
B Ltd, represented by Mr G and Mr Y, complained to this service. 
The investigator didnt uphold B Ltds complaint. She said HSBC had successfully carried 
out the screening checks, identification and address verification for B Ltd. She said the 
reason the application hadnt been processed was that HSBC didnt receive a response 
when its business specialist tried to contact B Ltd.
B Ltd wasnt satisfied. Mr G and Mr Y said that:
- HSBC never gave any reasons for not opening the business bank account;
- HSBC never emailed them with any requests for any further information;
- If HSBC had genuinely tried phoning, why was there no evidence of any calls or 
voice messages on their number?
Mr G and Mr Y said that they had definitely received no contact from HSBC. If HSBC had 
genuinely tried to contact them, theyd definitely have responded because they wanted a 
company bank account. They pointed out that they had also provided everything that had 
been requested in the application form, but HSBC had never replied to their request for a 
business account. They pointed out that their credit histories were excellent, and one of the 
Directors had another business bank account with HSBC, and personal HSBC accounts.
On behalf of B Ltd, Mr G and Mr Y asked for an ombudsman decision.
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The events of this case took place in spring and summer 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
recognised this was a difficult time for businesses and customers alike because of the Covid 
pandemic. Some banks were receiving high volumes of applications because of business 
support applications, at a time when employees were adjusting to working from home. And 
small businesses, like B Ltd, were also facing particularly difficult times, and needed prompt 
service and responses in administrative matters, so they could focus on coping with the 
situation as best they could. When reaching my decision, I took into account the difficulties 
both sides faced at this time.
Looking at the detail, B Ltd applied in May, and submitted the range of forms and evidence, 
completing this by 13 June. HSBCs notes record that it completed the screening checks on 
19 June and sent the application to one of its business specialists for review on 26 June, 
which was picked up by a business specialist on 6 July. In the circumstances of the time, I 
considered HSBCs timescales and actions were reasonable up to that point.
Theres a dispute about what happened next. HSBC said it tried to contact B Ltd on 2 July 
(before sending the case to its business specialist on 6 July), 16 July and 3 August but 
couldnt get through. HSBCs notes didnt show the method of attempted contact, just 
unable to contact,  but in reply to one of my queries, HSBC said the contact would have 
been by phone. The banks notes didnt specify the phone number or email used. Our 
investigator gave HSBC B Ltds contact number and asked whether this was the one used, 
and HSBC sent a copy of its customer contact details for B Ltd which gave the same 
number. But this didnt necessarily prove  as outgoing phone records would - that this was 
the number which HSBCs advisers rang on 16 July and 3 August (and possibly 2 July 
before allocation to the business specialist). Assuming there was an attempt to ring, the 
employee might have tried a different number, or made a mistake.  I bore in mind that B Ltds directors said theyd checked their phone records and definitely 
did not receive any calls. They were entirely consistent about this, and I accepted their 
statement that they would definitely have replied if they had heard from HSBC  because 
they wanted the account.
So I considered it was more likely than not that no phone calls on those dates reached B Ltd. 
And what was even more important than whether there was a mistake on the number 
dialled, was what happened next.  There was no mention on the notes of an answerphone 
message being left. I noted that B Ltds application form, and HSBCs recorded contact 
details for the company, both showed an email address and a website for B Ltd. Email isnt 
secure, but HSBC could have emailed to say it had tried to phone and please get in touch. It 
didnt do so. Nor did it write to B Ltd to ask it to get in touch. When I asked HSBC why it 
hadnt contacted B Ltd along the lines of We tried to phone you but couldnt get through, so 
please get in touch it replied that this wasnt in its procedures to do this.
It might be HSBCs procedure not to try and contact customers in this way for an application 
like this, and I realised that HSBC was no doubt busy at this time and dealing with the impact 
of the Covid pandemic too. But sticking to a procedure like this without being flexible can 
lead to an unfair outcome in the individual circumstances of a complaint. Here I thought that 
if HSBC had taken the small step of emailing and/or writing to B Ltd when it hadnt 
established contact by phone, then I thought a fairer outcome could have been reached.
There was also a long gap between HSBCs stated contact attempts. The case was picked 
up by the business specialist on 6 July, but no contact was attempted until 16 July and when 
this wasnt successful Id have expected another attempt within a day or two, not nearly 
three weeks later in August. 
But it was what happened next that really impacted B Ltd. It simply cancelled the application, 
without making any further attempts or without informing B Ltd. Indeed it had made no 
attempt to keep B Ltd informed at any point after the application. HSBC simply cancelled an 
application without even telling B Ltd it had done so, despite the fact that it had not identified 
any problems with the application  and when one of the directors was an existing HSBC 
customer. Doing this, in this way, would always cause confusion, frustration and 
inconvenience to B Ltd. Thats especially true where there has been no suggestion that 
those other accounts had been mismanaged, and B Ltd said that its directors credit histories 
were excellent.
When B Ltd complained, the final response letter merely said HSBC had tried to contact B 
Ltd and had closed the application; that it had had a lot of applications; and that although it 
could submit another application it couldnt say when any account might be opened. I asked 
HSBC why it had asked B Ltd to reapply, rather than simply reinstating the dropped 
application. It replied that the application was no longer on the system. I found it surprising 
that after only attempting to contact applicants by phone, HSBC deleted all record of the 
application.
And when B Ltd replied on 3 September disputing the alleged attempts to contact the 
directors - and chased for a reply on 10 September, 6 October and 7 November  HSBC 
simply didnt reply. HSBC told our investigator that its complaint handler had moved to a 
different team so didnt reply. But that wasnt B Ltds problem and it wasnt a reasonable 
excuse as to why genuine customer questions werent answered. After B Ltd complained to 
this service, HSBC offered £50 compensation, which B Ltd refused. I considered the £50 to 
be far too low to reflect the inconvenience resulting from HSBCs repeated failures to reply to 
B Ltds letters.So I found that HSBC let B Ltd down in many respects, and it should pay compensation. 
When this service considers compensation to companies, its not the same as when we 
consider compensation to individuals. Thats because a limited company is a separate legal 
entity from the people who run it. This means that if the consumer is a limited company, as it 
is here, we can't compensate the directors personally, however much they have been upset 
or frustrated  as Im quite sure was the case here, in view of HSBCs multiple failures to 
adopt common sense in dealing with this application.
We can, however, make awards to a limited company for inconvenience. And B Ltd certainly 
suffered a great deal of inconvenience here. The company wanted a business bank account 
 which is a legal requirement for a limited company  and had significant inconvenience 
from not having an account opened within reasonable timescales. And when HSBC issued 
its final response letter, which eventually told B Ltd that the application had been cancelled, 
it didnt offer simply to reinstate the existing cancelled application. Its a lot of work to provide 
all the necessary checks for a new account.  I would have ordered HSBC to offer to re-
consider B Ltds existing application, but as Ive set out above, HSBC has said that it simply 
deleted the application on 3 August. I said that whether B Ltd had since found a business 
bank account elsewhere, or whether it did still feel it wished to re-apply to HSBC, it would 
have suffered a considerable amount of inconvenience, duplicated effort and wasted time in 
having to submit a second complex business bank application.
The directors of B Ltd had explained about the extent of the inconvenience suffered. They 
said that there were numerous follow-ups by phone, email etc but they never heard anything 
about the application. They said they didnt receive any formal notification or communication 
from HSBC, and kept enquiring frequently. By the time B Ltd contacted our service, it had 
been over 5 months since its initial application. The directors said the level of service had 
been appalling and B Ltd couldnt be waiting indefinitely to get a business bank account 
opened. This meant B Ltd couldnt carry out any business bank account transactions as the 
account still hadnt been opened.
I also bore in mind that B Ltd is a small company with only two directors. So the impact on B 
Ltd was very much greater than it would have been for a large company. The two directors 
Mr G and Mr Y had to waste significant amounts of time, which they could otherwise have 
used to further the business. And the impact would have been even greater at a time when 
small businesses were struggling to cope with the impact of the pandemic.
Taking all these factors into account, I considered that a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for HSBC to pay B Ltd would be £500.
I also said that if B Ltd did still wish to open an HSBC business account, HSBC should deal 
with the application as quickly as possible, and prioritise it if it was able to do so..
Responses to my provisional decision
B Ltd accepted the provisional decision, but said it was very disappointed to discover that 
HSBC had deleted its entire application from the system. Its directors said it this was very 
surprising and they hadnt been informed about this action at any point, either making the 
complaint or when following up.  
B Ltd also highlighted additional points which it asked me to consider:
- HSBC had wasted a year of B Ltds time, which had caused a lot of disruption and 
inconvenience. As a small limited company, it could have offered additional services 
if it had had its business bank account opened on time.- During this period, B Ltd had lost a few clients through not being able to show that it 
had a business bank account. This led to a potential loss of income for the company.
- B Ltd couldnt go back to take up these missed business opportunities, from which it 
could have benefitted financially if it had had a business bank account.
B Ltd said that it did still want to open a business account with HSBC. It hoped that HSBC 
could sort this out as a priority now.
HSBC accepted the provisional decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the responses to the provisional decision. Having done so, I see no reason to 
depart from my original conclusions.
I do understand and recognise B Ltds concerns and frustrations. As its directors have 
decided that they do still want to open an account with HSBC, HSBC should deal with the 
application as quickly as possible, and prioritise it if its able to do so.
  
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order HSBC UK Bank PLC:
- to pay B Ltd £500 compensation
- to deal with B Ltds application for a business bank account as quickly as possible, 
and prioritise it if it is able to do so. 
-
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman