DRN-3648357
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that CB Payments Ltd wont refund money he was tricked into transferring 
to a fraudster. 
What happened
Mr A fell victim to an investment scam. As part of the scam he opened both an electronic 
money account provided by CB Payments and a cryptocurrency account provided by 
Coinbase UK. I understand that during the period of the disputed activity, Coinbase Europe 
replaced Coinbase UK as the provider of the cryptocurrency services. But, for simplicity and 
because it makes no material difference to the outcome, throughout this decision Ive 
referred to Coinbase UK as the business that provided the cryptocurrency services.
Mr A deposited funds from his bank account into his CB Payments account. He used those 
funds to purchase cryptocurrency from Coinbase UK. The cryptocurrency was deposited into 
a cryptocurrency account provided by Coinbase UK before being sent off the Coinbase 
platform to the fraudsters.
Mr A complained to Coinbase and it responded on behalf of both CB Payments and 
Coinbase UK. It said that it had no relationship with the recipient of his cryptocurrency and 
couldnt recover his money. And, as hed carried out all of the activity himself, it wasnt 
responsible for his loss. 
Mr A referred the matter to our service. CB Payments argued that we had no power to 
consider the complaint as it didnt relate to the electronic money activities carried out by CB 
Payments, but rather the unregulated cryptocurrency activities carried out by Coinbase UK. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought there were aspects of it that 
we could consider  specifically those parts which related to whether CB Payments had 
carried out adequate checks when he opened his account and whether it had properly 
monitored his account for unusual or out of character activity. But, having considered those 
points, they didnt think CB Payments had made an error.
CB Payments didnt provide any further submissions, but Mr A asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint as he argued that it should have done more to warn him about the risk 
of investing in cryptocurrency and it didnt carry out appropriate anti-money laundering 
(AML) and Know Your Customer (KYC) checks. He also pointed to various codes of 
practice which he believed CB Payments had breached. 
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There no longer appears to be any dispute that our service cannot consider the actions of 
Coinbase UK. So, I dont need to comment on this further.
Neither is it in dispute that Mr A made the purchases of cryptocurrency from his CB 
Payments account himself. So, the starting point is that he, rather than CB Payments, is 
responsible for the loss.
However, in line with good industry practice, I agree that CB Payments should monitor its 
customers accounts for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. 
This should include monitoring account activity for transactions that are unusual or out of 
character. In some circumstances, it should take additional steps, or carry out additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, Ive noted that Mr As CB Payments account was opened for the purpose of 
investing in the fraudulent scheme. That means there was no history of undisputed 
transactions for CB Payments to compare the disputed activity against. Im also conscious 
that a CB Payments account can only really be used for one purpose  to purchase 
cryptocurrency  and thats exactly what Mr A was doing. 
So, I think it would have been difficult for CB Payments to recognise, based on the activity 
which took place, that Mr A was falling victim to a scam.
Mr A argues that CB Payments didnt carry out appropriate AML and KYC checks, but I dont 
agree. There doesnt seem to be any dispute that it was Mr A who opened the account and 
that the source of his funds was entirely legitimate. So, I dont think there was any reason for 
CB Payments to be concerned and neither is it clear how further checks of this nature would 
have prevented the scam. I also cant see anything about Mr As customer profile that would 
have suggested a vulnerability or any reason for CB Payments to make further enquiries of 
him. I think its also important to state that the aims of AML regulations arent always aligned 
with preventing financial harm from scams.
I think that what Mr A suggests is that CB Payments should have obtained more detailed 
information about who the ultimate beneficiary of the payments was, as well as understand 
the broader circumstances behind them. I think this obligation would only be engaged where 
there was a reason for CB Payments to have found the activity unusual and suspicious. As 
Ive already concluded there was no reason for it to have done this, I dont think its made a 
mistake by not making further enquiries about the payments. 
Im afraid that much of the guidance quoted by Mr A does not apply to electronic money 
issuers such as CB Payments. The other guidance referenced does, I think, do little more 
than support the idea that CB Payments had an obligation to be on the lookout for unusual 
and out of character account activity (a fact Ive already accepted). 
 
Finally, Im satisfied that Mr As funds could not be recovered as it is accepted they were 
sent off the Coinbase platform, in cryptocurrency, to a third party. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 Rich Drury
Ombudsman