DRN-4402494
The complaint
Mr B complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds handling of a 
claim under his home insurance.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mr B has a home insurance policy underwritten Red Sands. He made a claim on 14 June 
2023 after his garden wall was damaged by a vehicle.
On 21 June 2023, Red Sands appointed surveyor visited the property to assess the damage 
and scope the required repair work.
Red Sands received the surveyors report on 28 June 2023. On the same day, Red Sands 
offered Mr B a cash settlement, which he accepted.
Mr B complained to Red Sands about delays in the handling of the claim and poor service 
from Red Sands and their contractors.
Red Sands agreed that Mr B had been told that the surveyors report should be with Red 
Sands agents within 48 hours of the surveyors assessment visit. It wasnt  and in fact 
wasnt received for a further two working days.
Red Sands paid Mr B £25 in compensation for the trouble and upset hed been caused by 
the minor delays which they said had been outside their control.
Mr B wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Red Sands needed to do any more for Mr B to put things right.
Mr B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He wants £150 in 
compensation. 
He says the delays affected him because he had to chase Red Sands to prompt progress on 
his claim. And because his children couldnt use the garden after the wall was damaged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands had a surveyor on site to assess the damage within a week. A week later, theyd 
made a cash settlement offer which Mr B accepted and the claim was resolved.
It would be very difficult to maintain any respectable or reasonable argument that the two 
week period from start to finish of the claim involves any unnecessary or avoidable delay or 
any unfairness towards Mr B on Red Sands part.
Red Sands accepted that their agent had indicated to Mr B that the surveyors report might 
be back with them sooner than it actually was. For that very minor inconvenience or poor 
service, they paid Mr B £25 in compensation. Im satisfied thats more than adequate 
compensation in all the circumstances.
Mr B says he was told by the contractors that theyd make the wall safe before they carried 
out the lasting repairs. I dont have any evidence to support that. And in any case, Im sure 
the contractors would have done that, but Mr B accepted a cash settlement of the claim.
Furthermore, this wasnt an issue Mr B raise in his complaint to Red Sands  which means I 
cant look into it now.
I note that the main impact of the damage to the wall on Mr B and his family, according to 
Mr B himself, was that they couldnt use the garden for a period of time. That would always 
have been the case once the vehicle ran into it. Red Sands of course were not responsible 
for causing the damage to Mr Bs wall.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman