DRN-3950033
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined a 
claim under his home insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise 
them here.
In January 2022 Mr J observed cracks that had appeared in his home and contacted 
Lloyds to make a claim.
Lloyds conducted a desktop review of the damage using photographs provided by Mr 
J. It concluded the property was not suffering from subsidence or any other peril 
covered by his policy.
Mr J wasnt satisfied the decision to decline his claim was based on a desktop review 
so in March 2022 Lloyds carried out a site visit. 
Following this review Lloyds maintained its position that the damage wasnt caused 
by an insured peril.
Mr J was unhappy and felt Lloyds position did not reflect what was discussed during 
the site visit. Mr J said that the damage was likely caused by vibration from passing 
vehicles. He was also unhappy with he had to chase Lloyds for reports.
In its final response Lloyds said it was sorry Mr J had to chase a report and paid £25 
to make up for this. It reiterated that the damage wasnt because of subsidence or 
any other insured peril and therefore the claim wasnt covered.
Mr J remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to this service in October 2022.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the outcome of the claim wasnt 
impacted by Lloyds initial decision to conduct a virtual assessment of the damage 
and there was no evidence the damage was caused by passing vehicles. And he felt 
the award made for the minor inconvenience Mr J incurred in having to chase Lloyds 
for a report was fair.
Mr J provided further evidence in the form of a crack assessment for our 
Investigator to consider. And our investigator shared this with Lloyds who provided 
their comments on it.
Having considered the report and responses to it our Investigator remained of the 
view the damage wasnt caused by an insured peril. 
Mr J asked that an ombudsman decide his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons. For the sake of simplicity when I refer to Lloyds I include its contractors and agents.
The engineer who provided the crack assessment doesnt appear to have visited the 
property. He describes the damage as aesthetic and not structurally significant. The report 
states the damage is most likely due to the vibration Mr J has alluded to. 
Lloyds report sets out the cracking is not consistent with foundation movement and has 
probably been present for long period of time. It also notes evidence of previous filling 
repairs at the affected locations.
All 3 reports agree the damage isnt caused by subsidence.
Ive also considered Lloyds response to Mr Js engineers report, it sets out why it isnt 
plausible that the damage was caused by vibration from passing traffic and I find this 
persuasive.  
Given Mr Js engineer hasnt visited the property I give less weight to this report and Im 
more persuaded by the evidence Lloyds has provided that the damage isnt caused by an 
insured peril. 
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Lloyds to conduct its initial assessment of the claim 
virtually with a desk top review of the pictures of the damage. And importantly the decision 
not to initially carry out a site visit didnt impact the claim, it was still declined following a site 
visit by Lloyds engineers. who said there was no evidence of an insured peril having 
occurred. 
In summary, Mr J submitted a claim, Lloyds has investigated the claim and concluded the 
damage isnt caused by an insured peril so isnt covered by the policy. And having 
considered all the evidence Im more persuaded the damage isnt a result of any event or 
activity that is insured under his policy. 
On balance, in the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied Lloyds acted reasonably in 
declining the claim and I wont be asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman