DRN-3961818
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way National House-Building Council (NHBC) dealt with a claim he 
made under his new home warranty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive explained the extent of our jurisdiction to consider the merits of Mr Gs complaint 
separately, so I wont repeat that here in detail. In summary, I can only consider the 
way NHBC acted in its capacity as an insurance provider under the warranty.
That means I cant consider the time taken for NHBC to begin and carry out its 
Resolution Service, the way it carried out the Resolution Service and the findings it 
reached about which items required further action by the builder.
NHBC issued a Resolution report agreeing that 26 items required action by the 
builder by 25 March 2022. The work hadnt been completed by that deadline and so 
NHBC became responsible under the warranty for dealing with it.
Mr G complained about a range of things. The only aspect of his complaint Im able 
to consider here is how NHBC dealt with those 26 items, from 26 March 2022 to the 
time of its final response on 11 April 2022  a two week period of time.
NHBCs final response mostly dealt with points outside of my power to consider, so I 
wont comment on them. In relation to the outstanding work, NHBC said the builder 
was required to deal with the 26 items and NHBC would assist if that didnt happen.
Our investigator thought NHBC had acted reasonably within the relevant time period.
The period of time I can consider is just two weeks. And during that time, most of the 
communication between Mr G and NHBC was about the Resolution Service and 
therefore not in my power to consider. So there is little I can comment on.
Focusing on what I can consider and comment on, Im satisfied NHBC acted fairly. 
When NHBC takes on responsibility for repairs, as it did here, I would expect it to 
consider how best to promptly resolving the outstanding problems. Where the builder 
is actively involved and willing and able to carry out the outstanding work, that is 
often the most efficient and effective option to resolve things.
Here, Mr G said the builder visited and agreed to carry out all the repairs required of 
them and had created a provisional schedule of work to reflect that. Im satisfied that 
shows the builder was prepared to take action promptly and accordingly it was 
reasonable for NHBC to take things forward in that manner.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman