DRN-3650752
The complaint
Mrs D complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund her for two disputed 
payments sent to her granddaughters university overseas. She wants compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience, and cost of phone calls abroad.
What happened
Mrs D wanted to transfer money to her granddaughter's university abroad. She used her 
mobile banking app in the evening of 7 February 2022, and three international payments for 
£1,687.50 were separately authenticated. 
The payments were debited overnight, appearing on Mrs Ds account early in the morning of 
8 February. Each international payment also incurred an £8 international payment charge.
Later that day, 8 February, Mrs D rang Barclays. She was worried and said shed made a 
mistake last night, when trying to transfer money abroad. She thought the payment hadnt 
gone through, because it hadnt shown on her Barclays account straightaway, so shed 
made two more. 
Barclays explained that international payments didnt show on an account instantly, but it 
said it would organise recall claims for the two extra payments. The adviser said the refunds 
couldnt be guaranteed, but Barclays would do what it could. He said Barclays would send a 
letter when the payments had come back. Mrs D asked if she should ring back the next day, 
and the adviser explained that it would take at least a couple of days, but that Mrs D, who 
was anxious about the money, could phone for an update. 
Mrs D also asked the adviser what she should produce for the university as proof of 
payment, and he said there would be a letter for that sent through the post. He said that 
three would be sent to her, but shed only need one as the other two were requested as 
repayments.
Barclays sent two recall requests through its correspondent bank. It received an auto-
acknowledgment and a query asking about the refund. Barclays checked with Mrs D, who 
confirmed on 21 February that she wanted money returned to her bank account. Barclays 
confirmed this to the correspondent bank. The correspondent bank charged Barclays for the 
requests, but didnt reply further. Barclays chased. On 9 March, the correspondent bank sent 
a message to Barclays saying Please be advised that we contacted the beneficiary bank 
regarding your recall request but till [sic] date we have not received any appropriate 
response from them, hence we suggest yourselves to deal direct with the beneficiary to 
resolve the matter We close our files.
On 22 March, Mrs D hadnt heard anything, and rang to complain. The adviser told Mrs D 
that Barclays had tried to recall the payments but there had been no response, so it couldnt 
move forward any further. Mrs D replied that shed sent one payment, but to her surprise 
Barclays had sent three payments instead. The adviser said Barclays wouldnt send three 
payments if shed only made one. Mrs D said shed been to a branch, and the branch had 
submitted the payment three times. The adviser checked whether Mrs D was saying the 
branch had submitted the payment three times, and Mrs D said yes.
Barclays didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Our investigator partly upheld Mrs Ds complaint, and asked Barclays if it would consider an 
award for distress and inconvenience. Barclays offered £100, but Mrs D refused this. She 
said that:
- shed never authorised the second and third transactions;
- when shed phoned to complain in late March, Barclays adviser had been very rude, 
and had just said there was nothing else the bank could do and it had already closed 
her case. The adviser had told her shed have to sort it out by ringing the university 
abroad;
- shed then had to visit branches and phone Barclays again. One branch had provided 
three proof of payment documents which shed requested from Barclays on 8 
February, including the IBAN numbers, which her granddaughter would need to sort 
it out with the university.
Subsequently, Mrs D and her granddaughter negotiated with the university. Mrs D agreed 
that the university could retain some of the overpaid money, and some would be returned to 
her Barclays account. Her account was credited with £2,209.42 on 25 May 2022, and there 
isnt a dispute about the amount of this returned payment.
Mrs D also said that there had been an impact on her health because shed been worried 
about losing that amount of money. She said shed had to postpone travel abroad as a 
result, and that had meant shed had to pay much more for her flights than if shed been able 
to go in April. She also said shed had to pay a lot for international calls, and for transport to 
and from the bank. She said she felt the offer of £100 compensation was a slap in the face. 
She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes listening to multiple phone call recordings, and I asked Barclays for more 
information too.
Were the three transactions authorised by Mrs D?
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in February 2022 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Barclays) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and Barclays has provided the 
evidence to show that all three disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if they did authorise them.The phone call recording from 8 February, when Mrs D first contacted Barclays about this, 
shows that she said shed authorised all three transactions herself, by mistake because she 
didnt think the first one had gone through. 
Later, on the complaint call on 22 March, she said shed only authorised one, and a branch 
had sent three instead of the one shed authorised. 
Looking at this conflicting evidence, I find that Mrs D authorised the transactions herself. 
First, thats what she said on the phone call recording from 8 February, which was 
immediately after the transactions, so more likely to be correct that what she said some six 
weeks later. But also, the technical evidence shows that all three payments were 
authenticated within a relatively short time on the evening of 7 February, appearing on Mrs 
Ds bank account the next morning. They were carried out through mobile app, late in the 
evening. They werent carried out at a branch, and in any case by that time of day the 
branch would have been closed. For completeness, Mrs D hasnt said that shed had her 
mobile stolen or her security information compromised. Shes always said she authorised at 
least one. And  Mrs Ds mobile and security information hadnt been compromised in the 
short time between the three transactions. So I find that the reason why there were three 
transactions was because Mrs D, not Barclays, made an error.
Mrs D has also said Barclays should have checked with her before letting the payments 
through. But as Mrs D herself says, shed previously made payments to the same university. 
Bank security systems and complex, but I dont consider that Barclays should necessarily 
have prevented the second and third payments to a recipient Mrs D had paid before.
The recall of the two payments which Mrs D sent in error
Ive considered whether Barclays acted correctly when Mrs D reported on 8 February that 
shed mistakenly sent two extra payments. In the phone call, Barclays did say that the 
refunds couldnt be guaranteed.  Ive checked Barclays records of the recall attempts 
through its correspondent bank. As Ive set out above, I can see that Barclays did send off 
two recall requests, and also chased for a response. But on 9 March, it received confirmation 
that the beneficiary bank (for the university) hadnt responded to the recall request and the 
correspondent bank had closed the recall claims.
This means that there was realistically nothing more that Barclays could have done. So 
although I recognise that Mrs D and her granddaughter had some inconvenience in trying to 
recover the money from the university abroad, I cant attribute that to Barclays.
But when Barclays heard the outcome on 9 March, Id have expected it to have contacted 
Mrs D, to tell her that unfortunately it hadnt been able to retrieve the two payments, and that 
shed have to contact the university abroad herself. In the phone call on 8 February, the 
adviser said that Barclays would send a letter in the post when it heard back, but he 
suggested Mrs D could phone in if she wanted an update on progress. Ive seen no evidence 
that Barclays did write to Mrs D about the outcome. Nothing more happened until Mrs D 
complained on 22 March. Barclays has since told us that when a recall request is made, it 
asks the customer to ring up. But the call recording says that Barclays would write to Mrs D - 
which I think would have been only fair and reasonable. 
So, in summary, I find that Barclays acted correctly in making the recall claims, and in 
chasing its correspondent bank for a response. And there was nothing Barclays could do 
when the beneficiary universitys bank abroad didnt respond to the recall claims. But I 
consider Barclays should have informed Mrs D soon after being told this on 9 March. So I 
find that Barclays should pay Mrs D some compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this caused, which Ill deal with under Compensation below.Mrs Ds complaint  customer service
Mrs D rang to chase for progress on 22 March and shes said that the adviser was very 
rude.  I asked Barclays for the phone call recording for this call, and Ive listened to it. I find 
that Barclays adviser was in fact helpful and polite to Mrs D. She took the details carefully, 
and checked with the relevant internal team about the technical details about the payments. 
She relayed these carefully to Mrs D, and offered the details of the payments so Mrs D could 
raise it with the university. Mrs D vigorously said that the extra payments were Barclays 
fault, but the adviser kept calm and raised a complaint for her.
Evidence of payments as requested by Mrs D
In her initial call on 8 February, Mrs D asked for proof that shed sent the payments  so she 
could prove to the recipient that shed sent the money. I can understand why Mrs D would 
have wanted this evidence, especially when it eventually turned out that her granddaughter 
had to negotiate with the university about the refunds. 
Theres a difference of evidence about whether or not the evidence for all three was sent. I 
asked Barclays, and it said it sent all three. Mrs D, however, said she only received evidence 
of one of the three payments, and that she didnt obtain the full information, including IBAN 
details, until she went to a branch after her complaint. 
I cant tell for certain what happened here. When evidence conflicts, I take my decision on 
what I think is most likely to have happened. Here, I think its most likely that as Barclays 
sent evidence for one payment, it would have sent the evidence for all three. Ive also borne 
in mind that theres no evidence that Mrs D complained about having received one but not 
three payment documents, until after her complaint in late March. So I dont find that 
Barclays did anything wrong in that respect.
Compensation
Drawing together these elements:
- Ive found that it was Mrs Ds mistake, not Barclays mistake, that three payments 
were sent, rather than one; 
- The evidence about the recalls shows that Barclays did all it could to recall the two 
payments which Mrs D had made in error;
- I find that Barclays adviser when Mrs D complained on 22 March was not rude;
- I consider its more likely than not that Barclays sent all three payment documents to 
Mrs D as shed requested;
- I have, however, found that Barclays should have notified Mrs D when it had no reply 
from the beneficiarys bank on 9 March. It didnt do so, meaning that Mrs D would 
never have been told, if she hadnt chased it some weeks later. 
Taking all these factors into account, I find that a suitable amount of compensation would be 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by not notifying Mrs D of the outcome of the 
recall requests. This takes into account:
- the fact that she didnt know between the actual outcome on 9 March, and when she 
rang on 22 March, and 
- the inconvenience of having to make a call to Barclays on 22 March.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Mrs D £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience resulting from its failure to 
notify her that the recall requests hadnt been successful because the beneficiary bank 
hadnt responded.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman