DRN-3840708
The complaint
Mr R complains that his insurance broker, Arthur J Gallagher Insurance Brokers Limited 
(AGIB) unfairly cancelled his insurance policy.
What happened
AGIB sold Mr R an insurance policy to cover his van. Mr R was asked to provide AGIB with a 
copy of his no-claims discount and a summary of his driving licence. Although he did provide 
the information regarding his no-claims discount, the driving licence summary wasnt sent to 
AGIB and as a result, the policy was cancelled.
Mr R says he didnt receive any communication from AGIB prior to his policy being 
cancelled. However, AGIB say they sent Mr R a number letters and text messages and tried 
to call him on several occasions, prior to cancelling the policy.
Unhappy with their actions, Mr R complained to AGIB. In October 2022 he received their 
final response not upholding the complaint. 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service and one of our investigators looked into what had 
happened. She agreed that AGIB had made a number of attempts to obtain the outstanding 
information from Mr R and concluded they hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision on his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On 14 September 2022, AGIB wrote to Mr R requesting a copy of his no-claims bonus and 
driving licence summary. Both items were listed together on page two of the letter, with a 
detailed explanation of how that evidence could be obtained. The letter said the certificate of 
insurance would be sent to Mr R, after his details had been validated, following receipt of the 
outstanding information. The letter was correctly addressed to Mr R, and appears to have 
been received by him as he then provided AGIB with a copy of his no-claims bonus.
On 22 September 2022, AGIB wrote to Mr R to confirm theyd received a copy of his no-
claims bonus, but still needed his DVLA driving licence summary before the policy could be 
finalised. The letter was also correctly addressed. Mr R said he never received that letter.
On 6 October 2022, a further notice was sent to Mr R which warned him that the policy 
would be cancelled if the driving licence summary wasnt received within seven days. The 
letter was correctly addressed and at the top of the letter in bold, capital letters said: 
NOTICE OF CANCELLATION. An SMS message was also sent to him on the same day.
On 11 October 2022, AGIB phoned Mr R but he didnt answer the security questions 
correctly so the call was terminated. On 13 October 2022, AGIB again tried to phone Mr R, 
but he ended the call while the security questions were being asked.
As the driving licence summary wasnt provided within the seven-day period, AGIB cancelled 
the policy with effect from 13 October 2022, and sent Mr R a notice confirming that on 
14 October 2022. That letter was also correctly addressed and appears to have been 
received by Mr R because he then phoned the branch on 17 October 2022, to complain 
about his policy being cancelled. 
As our investigator explained in her view, Mr R requested that all documents be sent to him 
by post. AGIB have provided evidence to show that prior to cancelling the policy they tried to 
contact Mr R via three communication channels: post; SMS; and by phone. Theyve also 
provided copies of the correctly addressed correspondence. But Mr R says he didnt receive 
the letters until after his policy had been cancelled. Where the evidence is inconsistent, 
incomplete, or contradictory, as it is here, I make my decision based on what I think more 
likely than not happened.
Shortly after the 14 September 2022 letter was sent, requesting details of Mr Rs no-claims 
discount and driving licence summary, Mr R sent the no-claims discount information to 
AGIB. Then, a few days after a letter was sent to confirm his policy had been cancelled, 
Mr R contacted AGIB to complain about that. So, Im satisfied those letters were likely 
received by Mr R.
While not all post reaches its destination and recipients, the vast majority of correctly 
addressed post is correctly delivered. So, in the absence of independent evidence to show 
that Mr R was experiencing problems with his post at that time (such as correspondence 
with Royal Mail about that) on balance, I think Mr R most likely received all of the letters.
I therefore conclude that AGIB took reasonable steps to obtain the outstanding information 
from Mr R, needed to finalise his policy. I also think they took reasonable steps to notify him 
of the consequences of not providing that information, namely, that the policy would be 
cancelled. I therefore do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman