DRN-3103858
The complaint
Mr D complains about his interest only mortgage with Derbyshire Home Loans Ltd (DHLL). 
Mr Ds complaint is brought by his sister, Ms D, acting on his behalf.
Mr Ds complaint is that his mortgage lender acted irresponsibly when it gave this mortgage 
in 2006. Ms D says the lender:
- didnt complete adequate underwriting checks and if it had it would have realised 
that the employment and income details declared in the application were incorrect;
- didnt do enough to check that Mr D would be able to repay the mortgage at the 
end of the term by the method set out in the application;
- should have questioned why he was needing to self-certify his income when he 
was declaring a regular income; and
- hasnt done enough to help Mr D with restructuring the mortgage since the broker 
upheld a complaint that the mortgage was mis-sold.
What happened
In 2006 Mr D took out an interest only mortgage with GMAC for around £150,000 
having received advice from a broker. The mortgage was given over a term of 
20 years and will expire in 2026. The mortgage was provided on a self-certified basis.
The mortgage was taken out on a two year fixed rate of 5.19% until 31 March 2008, after 
which time it reverted onto a standard reversionary rate.
During the early years of the mortgage it was transferred from GMAC to DHLL, part of the 
Nationwide group.
From 2007 to 2011 Mr D struggled making the monthly interest payments having been 
seriously injured and needing surgery. Mr D was unable to work for a long period of time 
as a result of his injury and while paying what he could, he fell behind with the mortgage
interest payments. Mr D managed to qualify for Support for Mortgage Interest and other 
benefits from 2007, and Ms D says he was also reliant on family to make ends meet.
By 2018 Mr D had recovered sufficiently to be able to work again. Ms D says it was at 
this point that she started to help her brother with managing his financial affairs.
In 2018 Ms D complained, on her brothers behalf, that the mortgage had been mis-sold to 
him. Ms D has shared evidence with us, the lender and the broker that shows Mr D has 
learning difficulties which means he has severe problems with memory, comprehension 
and managing anything other than straightforward financial products. Mr D struggles with 
complex forms and paperwork. Although Mr D can manage his own financial affairs to an 
extent, (such as making payments to his mortgage over the phone), Ms D has explained 
that he is wholly reliant on Ms Ds support to articulate and pursue this complaint.
On 26 October 2018, The Mortgage Works (another firm in the Nationwide group) gave its 
final response to this complaint on DHLLs behalf. It directed Ms D to make a complaint to 
the broker if she was unhappy with the advice given to Mr D in 2006 and the mortgage 
applied for through the broker. It said DHLL wasnt responsible for the lending decision 
made by the predecessor lender in 2006, but in any event it wouldnt have upheld Ms Ds 
complaint about the underwriting process. 
DHLL said the predecessor lender had carried out checks in accordance with its processes 
at the time the application was made. The Mortgage Works offered Mr D £100 for delays in 
its complaint handling.
Ms D was dissatisfied with the final response. She referred her concerns about the lender 
to us. And Ms D made a complaint to the broker who sold the mortgage.
DHLL has subsequently accepted responsibility for the complaint made about 
irresponsible lending in 2006, albeit this was carried out by a predecessor lender.
Its worth noting that the broker has upheld the complaint brought against it and has offered 
what it considers is fair redress. The complaint against the broker has also been referred to 
us by Ms D. Both the investigator and I have considered the broker complaint alongside the 
complaint against DHLL, so were considering the different parties involved in Mr D taking 
out this mortgage in 2006, and what should be done now to put things right.
Following the broker upholding the complaint, Ms D asked DHLL again what it could do for 
Mr D to help going forward and made a further complaint when she felt DHLL wasnt doing 
enough to help. The lender responded to these further concerns in a final response dated 
26 June 2020.
At this point DHLL still didnt consider it was responsible for the lending decision made in 
2006. And it said there was a record that Ms D had asked about interest rate products in 
August 2019 and it had agreed to offer an interest rate product to Mr Ds mortgage as an 
exception even though he was in arrears at that time. DHLL was less clear about why 
this hadnt gone ahead at the time- but it again agreed to switch the mortgage to a two 
or five year interest rate product which would reduce Mr Ds mortgage interest payments 
from around £650 to £265 per month.
DHLL didnt consider it needed to take further action (such as reducing the interest rate 
from the start of the mortgage) but it said it would look for ways to help Mr D with his 
mortgage going forward. It also said Ms D or Mr D would need to revisit interest rate 
products each time a rate expired and apply for a new product at that time or the mortgage 
would revert to its reversionary rate.
Ms D was unhappy with DHLLs response and asked us to look into this complaint. Our 
investigator thought that DHLL could and should have asked further questions when Mr D 
applied for the mortgage, and if it had it could have prevented the mortgage going ahead. 
She thought DHLL should pay compensation to Mr D to enable him to reduce the balance 
of the mortgage and repay the balance over an extended term. She also thought that a 
payment for the trouble and upset caused by its actions should be paid to Mr D. Both Ms D 
and DHLL disagreed and asked that an ombudsman look at the complaint and reach a 
final decision on the matter.
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 31 August 2021 setting out my thoughts on this 
complaint and what I considered needed to happen now to put things right. In it I said:
Was this mortgage lent irresponsibly in 2006?First, I acknowledge that DHLL has now accepted responsibility for the lending decision 
made by the predecessor lender in 2006. Im pleased this issue now been resolved 
although its unfortunate that this took some time and has led to confusion and uncertainty 
during the handling of this complaint.
When looking at the sale of the mortgage in 2006, and the duties of the lender and broker in 
this transaction at the time Mr D took out a mortgage, its right that I consider mortgage 
regulation at the time the mortgage was granted. It wouldnt be fair to retrospectively apply 
current regulatory standards to a mortgage Mr D took out over 15 years ago.
Mortgage regulation has changed significantly with regards to the duties of the lender and 
the broker since the Mortgage Market Review of 2014. Changes in regulation have 
brought about greater responsibility for the lender when making sure that a mortgage is 
affordable. But this regulation wasnt applied retrospectively and so I mustnt now apply 
current regulation and or what is considered good industry practice today to a mortgage 
granted in 2006. 
Ive looked carefully at the mortgage documentation from 2006, including the mortgage 
application which appears to have been completed by the broker on Mr Ds behalf. Ms D 
now disputes the content of the application form and says incorrect information was 
given. According to regulation at the time, it was ultimately the brokers responsibility to 
check that a mortgage was affordable for Mr D. And in this application the applicant self-
certified his income. This effectively meant that Mr D declared his employment and a 
certain income to the broker, and the broker passed this information onto the lender 
without the lender separately verifying that this was correct.
In the context of Mr Ds mortgage application, I think that its reasonable that the lender 
accepted what was written on the application as being a true reflection of Mr Ds situation 
and as a basis for its underwriting assessment. At the point the application was made, I 
dont think the lender has a reasonable basis from the information as set out in the 
application, upon which to question Mr Ds financial situation recorded after a detailed 
fact find with the broker.
The application form has a signed declaration from Mr D saying that this was a true 
reflection of his financial position. The form gives Mr Ds job as a regional manager, 
earning a basic salary of £60,000 and with an annual bonus of around £15,000 per year. It 
said Mr D had worked for his employer for a number of years, since August 2002. The form 
also said that Mr D didnt have proof of income readily available which was given as the 
reason why he was applying for a self-certified mortgage.
I can see why Ms D is frustrated that this information was given in 2006. She says this 
information is false and that her brother has never been a regional manager earning such 
a high wage. It is clear to her that this information was wrong. But I must think about what 
the lender could reasonably have known at the time, and whether there was anything that 
could place the lender on notice that it should question the validity of the facts as 
presented or the transaction as set out to it by the broker.
I dont think that the facts as presented ought reasonably to have led the lender to 
question why Mr D was employed and yet wanted a self-certified mortgage. From my 
wider experience of the mortgage market, Im conscious there were a number of reasons 
why people might have chosen to self-certify their income at the time. These reasons 
included getting a mortgage agreed more quickly, frequent changes to employment, 
applicants being self-employed, or because an applicant may struggle to find the 
necessary payslips at short notice to demonstrate their wages. With hindsight I can see 
why Ms D questions why a self- certified mortgage was recommended for her brother when according to the application he had a regular wage. But I dont think it would be 
reasonable to expect the lender at the time to have seen this as a risk, or indication of a 
problem, and something it would need to explore further before granting the loan.
In this case, the lender didnt accept all the information given in the application at face 
value. DHLL has said, in accordance with the predecessor lenders due diligence process 
at the time, an audit call was made to the party given as Mr Ds employer in 2006. During 
the phone call Mr Ds employment was confirmed.
Ms D has also questioned why the interest only mortgage was given without the lender 
checking that Mr D had a way to repay the balance at the end of the term. I see the 
mortgage application says that Mr D was planning to repay the interest only mortgage 
either through the sale of the property or through inheritance. There doesnt appear to be 
any further information recorded about this. On the mortgage offer it says details of your 
repayment vehicle to repay all or part of your capital is not known to us.
It wasnt a regulatory requirement at the time for a lender to ask that an applicant proved 
they had a suitable repayment vehicle in place (such as an investment which would fully 
repay the loan) before giving a mortgage. It was fairly common practice at that time for a 
lender to accept the sale of the property as one way in which a mortgage applicant may 
offer to repay the loan.
In the mortgage offer it said:
7. This offer has been made on an interest only basis. You are strongly recommended to 
ensure that a repayment vehicle is in place which is equal to the amount shown on the 
Offer and equal to the term of the mortgage.
Im satisfied the predecessor lender made it reasonably clear in the paperwork produced 
as part of the application process that the mortgage was being provided on an interest 
only basis. And it did strongly recommend that a repayment vehicle was put in place 
albeit it didnt ask for proof of this before it would give Mr D the mortgage.
DHLL has also drawn our attention to the fact that it had sought confirmation from the 
conveyancing solicitor representing Mr D on various points before it would allow the 
mortgage to complete. The special conditions in the mortgage offer required the solicitor to 
confirm prior to completion that the deposit was coming from Mr Ds own resources, that 
the transaction was a true sale and a deposit was changing hands, and that the full 
purchase price was the price to be paid. Again, these assurances appear to have been 
given to the lender before it would agree to release the funds.
Im sympathetic to the arguments made by Ms D, and Im mindful of the situation that Mr D 
has faced over the years with this mortgage and other significant problems with his health. 
I can see exactly why Ms D now queries whether the lender could have identified 
problems with the information submitted by the broker before it provided the loan. But, 
having taken into account all the evidence provided and wider circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think the predecessor lender acted irresponsibly. It accepted the 
information given by the broker and other parties in the mortgage application process 
having completed checks and asking for conditions to be met. I dont consider it acted 
unreasonably by granting Mr D the mortgage that was applied for.
helping Mr D repay the mortgage capital nowA further concern raised by Ms D is that DHLL hasnt done enough to help Mr D to sort out 
the interest only mortgage now it has come to light that the mortgage was mis-sold by the 
broker.
Mr Ds circumstances may not have been known to the predecessor lender when the 
mortgage was sold, but they are known to DHLL now. There are several aspects of Mr Ds 
learning difficulties that make it difficult for him to manage a mortgage, and that has 
seriously affected the way he has managed his mortgage over the years and his ability to 
pro-actively manage this debt going forward.
I think its fair to say that Ms D has struggled to get DHLL to take ownership of this 
complaint and to take action. But this is a complicated complaint, that ultimately came 
about as a result of the actions of a third party- in this case the broker- who has no ongoing 
involvement in the mortgage. But regardless of how difficult it might be to sort out such 
situations, DHLL is Mr Ds mortgage lender and as such has a responsibility to help him try 
and get things back on track. Especially as if no action was taken, this interest only 
mortgage will expire in 2026 and Mr D, a vulnerable customer of DHLL, has no way of 
repaying that loan.
DHLL is now aware of the position Mr D finds himself in, and his specific vulnerability. I 
think DHLL could have been more pro-active sooner in trying to support Mr D to find a way 
to repay this mortgage.
I note that since the investigators view, DHLL has made a further proposal to help Mr D 
to repay this mortgage in the future. It has offered to:
- extend the term of the mortgage and convert it to a capital repayment basis to 
enable Mr D to repay the mortgage balance over a term long enough for it to be 
affordable for him,
- apply a lower interest rate of 1.99% (with no fee) to the mortgage for the 
remaining term to help reduce the mortgage balance as quickly as possible;
- backdate the lower interest rate discussed with Ms D which reduces the mortgage 
balance by around £18,000 as hes effectively paid more interest since 2018 than 
he needed to;
- it said this offer is subject to Mr D agreeing to pay all the compensation paid by 
the broker towards reducing the mortgage balance.
Im pleased to see DHLL is now taking significant steps to acknowledge the challenges 
that Mr D faces with this loan, and to help Mr D repay this mortgage in full in a timely 
fashion.
This offer takes into account Mr Ds vulnerability. It also doesnt require proactive 
management, for example taking out further interest rate products every two or so years, 
which I consider is wholly appropriate in Mr Ds specific circumstances. However, I do feel 
this level of support could have been made sooner.
As Ive said, I hold the mortgage broker responsible for the position that Mr D finds himself 
in and I have set out what compensation it should pay in the determination of that 
complaint. I also agree that the compensation awarded should be paid to DHLL  with the 
exception of any trouble and upset payment- to reduce the mortgage balance.
DHLL should modify the mortgage term and repayment type to allow Mr D to repay this 
mortgage once he pays the redress from the broker complaint to this mortgage. And 
DHLL has said it is willing to convert the mortgage to capital repayment, extend the term 
as required and support Mr D by giving him an interest rate of 1.99% with no product fee. 
I consider this offer to be fair and reasonable to resolve this part of the complaint.Ive said that I think that DHLL could have made this meaningful offer to support Mr D 
before. The confusion and delay in acknowledging responsibility for the initial lending 
decision, and in giving support to resolve Mr Ds position now, have caused upset to     
Mr D. My provisional decision is that DHLL should pay Mr D compensation of £500 for its 
shortcomings in helping Mr D resolve the problems with his mortgage as a result of mis-
selling by the broker.
Responses to my provisional decision
DHLL replied to say it had nothing further to add following my provisional findings.
Ms D initially disagreed with my provisional findings saying she remained of the view that 
shed provided enough evidence of irresponsible lending. Ms D also wanted to see my 
thoughts on the broker complaint before shed say whether she accepted this provisional 
decision against the lender. 
Ms D has more recently said that she accepts my findings and my proposal about how 
things should be put right across both these complaints. I understand why Ms D wanted to 
see the outcome across the two complaints that cover the sale of her brothers mortgage 
before she felt she could accept either decision. Id like to reassure Ms D that Ive looked 
carefully at all the evidence across the two cases before reaching my final decision on this 
complaint against DHLL.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the further arguments made by Ms D, and the fact DHLL had no further 
information or arguments to add. Having done so, and now both parties broadly accept my 
provisional findings, I see no reason to depart from them. So, this final decision confirms my 
earlier provisional findings. 
Putting things right
To put things right, DHLL should help Mr D in his current predicament by agreeing to convert 
this mortgage to a capital repayment mortgage and applying interest at 1.99% until the 
mortgage is repaid. This should be done on the understanding that compensation from the 
broker complaint should be paid to reduce the mortgage balance, and that Mr D should 
endeavour to meet his monthly mortgage repayments going forward until the balance is fully 
repaid. In addition to this, DHLL should pay Mr D £500 for the trouble and upset caused to 
him by its shortcomings in offering support with restructuring the mortgage since 2018.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Derbyshire Home Loans Ltd would be upheld 
in part. 
I dont consider that Derbyshire Home Loans Ltd acted irresponsibly by lending Mr D this 
mortgage, but I do think it could have done more to help Mr D in recent years. I direct 
Derbyshire Home Loans Ltd to pay Mr D £500 for the trouble and upset caused by its 
actions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D, or Ms D on his behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman