DRN-2460289
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited (trading as 
MoneyBoat.co.uk (MoneyBoat)) gave him unaffordable loans. 
  
What happened
Mr R took three instalment loans from MoneyBoat between June 2018 and December 2018. 
A summary of his borrowing, based on the information provided to us from MoneyBoat can 
be found below:
Loan Date Taken Date RepaidNo of Monthly 
InstalmentsAmount 
BorrowedMax Monthly 
Repayment
1 15/06/2018 30/11/2018 6 £300.00 £85.00
2 11/12/2018 21/12/2018 6 £500.00 £145.05
3 28/12/2018 05/07/2019 6 £400.00 £125.19
One of our adjudicators then looked at what actually happened when Mr R was granted 
these loans. He didnt think MoneyBoat was wrong to have provided loan 1. But when Mr R 
applied for loan 2, the adjudicator thought that the results of MoneyBoats credit check along 
with Mr Rs borrowing history, should have prompted MoneyBoat to have completed further 
checks. The adjudicator thought better checks wouldve shown MoneyBoat that it shouldnt 
have lent to Mr R. 
It appears that Mr R agreed with our adjudicators opinion. MoneyBoat disagreed and 
provided the following points to consider:
It would be unrealistic for an underwriter to sit and review every line of a credit file 
prior to lending, especially at the early stages of the relationship; and 
It hasnt found anything in the regulations or guidance that suggests they were 
obliged to undertake such an endeavour.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the facility was provided. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr R could repay these loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. And I think MoneyBoat were wrong to 
approve Mr Rs last two loans. Id like to explain why.
Loan 1 
When Mr R applied for his first loan, MoneyBoat asked him to declare his monthly income 
and expenditure. Mr R declared that he had a monthly income of £1,550 and his monthly 
expenditure amounted to £800. This would have left him with a monthly disposable income 
of £750 of which to meet his monthly repayment of no more than £85. So, the checks 
MoneyBoat carried out suggested that Mr R would be in a position to afford the repayments 
he was committed to making. 
The information provided by the lender shows it completed a credit check at the time of the 
loan application. These credit check results showed Mr R had 22 active accounts at the time, 
of which he had taken out 10 of these accounts within the last six months. Quite worryingly, 
Mr R had 47 searches on his credit file within 12 months. And 15 of these searches had 
been completed within the previous three months of his loan application. 
But considering this was Mr Rs first loan and no borrowing history; and that Mr R had 
declared he had enough disposable income to comfortably meet his repayments, I think it 
was just about reasonable for MoneyBoat to have approved the loan with the information it 
had gathered. 
Loans 2 and 3
Mr R applied for his second loan around 11 days after he repaid loan 1. It appears that 
MoneyBoat completed the same level of checks as it had for the first loan, by asking Mr R 
for his monthly income and expenditure, along with completing a credit check.
Mr R declared his income was now £1,440 which had slightly decreased compared what he 
declared six months prior. But also that his monthly expenditure was now higher  £1,022. This left him with a disposable income of £418 with which to meet the repayments of around 
£145. So, given the monthly repayments that Mr R was committed to making, on this 
information alone, the repayments wouldve appeared affordable.
MoneyBoat knew that Mr R still had 22 active credit accounts, but he had also taken out and 
closed a further four accounts since his last application. I acknowledge that one of these 
accounts was most likely to have been his first loan with MoneyBoat. But the checks also 
showed Mr R was still searching for credit, and five of these searches were showing within 
the last three months so during the time Mr R was repaying loan one. 
This led me to question the credit check results in more detail, which I also think MoneyBoat 
should have done. And I can see that Mr R was approved for additional short-term loans 
within the period he was repaying his first loan with MoneyBoat.
MoneyBoat has told us its unrealistic for a credit underwriter to review all the information 
presented in the credit check. But ultimately, this is the information it has gathered about a 
potential customers circumstances and therefore it cannot be ignored. As Ive explained, in 
the early stages of the lending relationship, we think that proportionate checks may well be 
less thorough. But what MoneyBoat cant do is ignore information that has been provided to 
it. 
This was now Mr Rs second loan, which he took in fairly quick succession after repaying his 
first. And the loan was for a higher amount, along with information from the credit check 
summary showing he was continuing to take out further credit accounts with other lenders 
whilst also sinking further into arrears.
With this in mind, like the adjudicator I think MoneyBoat ought to have looked at Mr Rs 
situation more closely. Mr R has provided copies of his bank statements showing his 
finances at the time of his loan application. To be clear Im not saying that MoneyBoat had to 
review Mr Rs bank statements. This was just one of the ways it couldve looked at his 
finances more closely. 
I can see Mr R was making payments to nine other short-term lenders at the time. So, I think 
MoneyBoat ought to have realised that Mr R was unlikely to have been able to make his 
repayments, without taking out further loans. That meant any new lending would be 
unsustainable, so, I think MoneyBoat was wrong to approve this loan.
With regards to Mr Rs third loan, I think its reasonable that MoneyBoat should have 
continued to check Mr Rs circumstances, and not just rely on the information he declared. 
After all, Mr R was continuing to request further credit from it, and the clear flags Ive set out 
above would still have been showing on a credit check. Mr R had repaid loan 2 early but was 
now applying for further credit within a week of doing so. 
Mr Rs bank statements show he was continuing to make repayments to seven other short-
term lenders and a further indication he couldnt sustainably take on new lending. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think proportionate checks for loan 2 and 3 would have likely 
shown that Mr R was having problems managing his money, and that he wouldnt have been 
able to sustainably repay these loans. So, I think MoneyBoat were wrong to approve loans 2 
and 3. 
  
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress MoneyBoat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr R from loan two, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that 
question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr R may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr R in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr R would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce MoneyBoats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
In order to put things right for Mr R, MoneyBoat should also do the following;
Refund all interest, fees and charges on loans 2 and 3.
Add 8% simple interest*, calculated from the date Mr R originally made the
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Rs credit 
file in relation to loans 2 and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above, Im partly upholding Mr Rs complaint. Evergreen 
Finance London should pay Mr R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman