DRN-2646955
The complaint
The Executors (E1 and E2) of the estate of Miss M (the estate) say OCM Wealth 
Management Ltd. (OCM) did as follows:
Referred E1 to the Office of Public Guardian (OPG) in 2019; without prior notice to 
him; and on the basis of a vexatious, misconceived and unsubstantiated allegation 
about E1 abusing the Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) he held for the late Miss M 
(which he held since 2015). [issue 1]
Did the above in breach of specific duties it had under the Principles of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) Principles  Principles 1 (especially), 2, 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9. 
[issue 2]
Did the above in breach of its duties towards E1 as a client of OCM, such client 
status having been created by the settling of the LPA for Miss M (whereby E1 
thereafter substituted Miss M as OCMs client). [issue 3]
E1 says that as a direct result of OCMs conduct he incurred professional costs in order to 
inform and defend his position in the course of the OPG investigation and he suffered wider 
financial losses and damage to health. He seeks compensation for all.
What happened
OCM disputes the complaint and submitted a detailed response to E1, which can be 
summarised as follows:
It was Miss Ms Discretionary Investment Manager (DIM) and her financial adviser at 
the time of the OPG referral. Nothing in or from the LPA substituted E1 for Miss M as 
OCMs client. The LPA gave E1 standing to make decisions for Miss M, but Miss M 
remained OCMs client and its overall duty of care remained towards her only  E1 
was not its client. It regarded Miss M as a vulnerable client because she met the 
FCAs definition of such a client, and it was entitled to regard her as such.
Its concerns about E1 and some of his conduct in executing his role as Miss Ms 
attorney was neither frivolous nor vexatious. They also were not misconceived or 
unsubstantiated. They date back to 2017 and were raised with E1 at the time  and 
continued to be raised with him, without resolution, up to 2019 when OCM 
considered dialogue with him to have been exhausted and reasonably took the step 
of referring its concerns to the OPG. 
In the main, OCM held legitimate concerns about the potential for a conflict of 
interests arising from E1s roles as Miss Ms attorney and as the Director of the 
Limited Company that, in the course of its business, provided care for her (including 
a specific concern that sustenance of the company mainly or wholly relied on 
revenue from the care service to Miss M, which might have led to the companys 
interest being prioritised above hers); about the comparatively higher (and 
increasing) costs of the care provided to Miss M which appeared to be an outlier 
compared to the costs of more traditional care settings; and about a succession of 
substantial financial gifts, from Miss Ms assets, that E1 had made to himself and to 
his siblings between 2017 and 2019, each of which he knew OCM was concerned 
about (for reasons discussed with him, including inappropriateness and the 
unaffordability of the gifts). It first referred a concern to the OPG in 2018 with regards 
to the limited company issue and then it did so again in 2019 because its overall 
concerns about E1 had been compounded by the gifting issue. 
It is expressly within the OPGs remit to be informed of and to address concerns 
about an attorneys conduct in relation to a donors or clients interest and in relation 
to matters such as potential misuse of the donors/clients money and conduct 
potentially conflicting with the donors/clients interest. As such, referral of its 
concerns to the OPG was reasonable and legitimate. It had no obligation to give E1 
prior notice of its referral and it had already attempted, without success, to resolve 
the concerns with him. 
For the above reasons  and mindful that Miss M was OCMs client and that it was 
her it owed its duty of care to  OCMs actions were consistent with Principles 1 
(Integrity), 2 (skill, care and diligence), 3 (management and control), 6 (clients 
interests and fair treatment), 7 (communications with clients), 8 (conflict of interests) 
and 9 (relationships of trust).
For the above reasons, it considers it has no case  related to E1  to answer and it 
has no responsibility for the compensation he claims.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, concluded that it should not be upheld 
and broadly agreed with OCMs position. E1 disagreed with this outcome and stressed his 
view that OCM had acted without integrity, had acted without authority to do so (as it had no 
authority to act for Miss M given that she was no longer its client and he was) and had acted 
contrary to his and Miss Ms interests. He insisted that OCMs referral to the OPG was 
vexatious, was done in retaliation for a past disagreement(s) he had with it and was not in 
any way done to protect Miss M  who, he says, needed no such protection from his conduct 
as attorney. E1 also mentioned concerns that he had about OCM and that Miss M had 
stopped trusting OCM many years ago because of similar concerns.
The investigator was not persuaded to change her view and she noted that E1s reference to 
concerns about OCM and Miss Ms alleged mistrust of OCM were new issues which had not 
been previously raised with OCM (or this service). The matter was referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The nature of the complaint is patently clear. In the main, it is about E1 and it is not directly 
about the estate  the estate being the complainant. 
At best, E1 could argue that the complaint is indirectly about the estate because the 
complaint issues affected him in his capacity as attorney for Miss M. However, a distinction 
must be drawn between what is alleged to have affected E1 as an individual (and no more), 
within his role as attorney for Miss M (and then joint executor for the estate), and what is 
alleged to have gone beyond that and to have obstructed E1 in discharging his role as 
attorney for Miss M (and then joint executor for the estate). The latter potentially bears an 
indirect effect on the estate, but the former arguably does not. Available evidence shows that 
the complaint is mainly about the former. I have not seen evidence that OCMs referral of its concerns about E1 obstructed E1 from 
discharging a particular duty or responsibility as attorney for Miss M or as joint executor for 
the estate. In this respect, it is noteworthy that there is no evidence of E1s role(s) being 
restricted upon the referral to the OPG or during the OPGs investigation, and the outcome 
of the OPGs investigation was that no further action was to be taken on the matter, aside 
from an advisory comment it made for his ongoing attention. As such, whilst E1 has referred 
to personal and financial costs incurred in the process, the process itself did not affect his 
roles as attorney and joint executor and neither did the outcome of the process. The same 
applies to conclude that there was no indirect detriment, from the referral, upon Miss M or 
the estate. 
For the above reasons, and as the investigator sought to explain to E1, the complaint is 
addressed only in the context of the estate as complainant. If, as he alleges, a separate and 
distinct customer relationship existed between E1 and OCM, the present complaint has not 
been presented as one arising from such a relationship  so E1 retains his discretion to 
address that separately. The present complaint has been brought on behalf of the estate, so 
any such separate and distinct relationship between E1 and OCM is irrelevant to my 
determinations.
It is necessary to maintain the estates, Miss Ms and the individual executors anonymity 
within this decision, and this extends to avoiding contents which could potentially and 
indirectly lead to their identification and to breach of such anonymity. For this reason, I will 
not set out all the details of evidence I have seen about the inter-relationship between E1 
and OCM with regards to the estate. It is sufficient to say that the evidence I have seen 
includes the following:
The existence, as a matter of fact, of the limited company set up and run by E1 for 
the purpose of providing care to Miss M; the care related fees/costs that concerned 
OCM; information about the [undisputed] gifts and gift requests by E1, from Miss 
Ms/the estates assets and for his and his siblings benefits; and information and 
correspondence between OCM and E1 (between 2017 and 2019) about its concerns 
over these matters and about the cost of care and about the unaffordability of the 
outgoings from Miss Ms assets caused by these matters.
The terms of Miss Ms will, of the Grant of Probate for her estate and of the LPA.
Evidence of OCMs role as Miss Ms DIM and financial adviser.
The outcome of OCMs OPG referral.
Overall, on balance and in the context of the estate as the complainant, I consider that issue 
1 falls away. OCM did no more than share its concerns with the OPG. It did not go to the 
extent of prejudging or unduly influencing the outcome of the OPG referral (or process) and I 
am satisfied that it wholly deferred the investigation and determination of its concerns to the 
OPG. Nevertheless, it had to present its referral on the basis of what it was genuinely 
concerned about and that is evident, but I do not consider it was not entitled to do this. Its 
referral was based on factual events and I have not seen evidence that it fabricated any of 
these. 
I appreciate that E1 disagrees with OCMs views and opinions on those events but both E1 
and OCM were entitled to their respective opinions on the matter and OCM was not 
prohibited from expressing its to E1 and/or the OPG. Indeed, and as OCM has stated, the 
OPGs existence, role and remit actively invites information and referrals based on views that an attorney might be abusing its role (with regards to a donors or clients interests). 
OCM cannot reasonably be criticised for referring what appears to be its sincerely held 
concerns about E1 and Miss Ms interests (and assets) in this respect. I note E1s argument 
that OCMs real motive was revenge for a previous disagreement, but I have not seen 
evidence to sustain this argument or to persuade me that such was the case. The facts 
behind OCMs concerns, which do not appear to be in dispute, are such that the risk of 
potential attorney abuse was not an unreasonable conclusion for it to reach.
As the investigator explained, Miss M remained OCMs client, up to her passing, and E1s 
argument that he substituted her in that role is without merit. I acknowledge that, as attorney, 
he had the power to terminate OCMs service. However, if he took such a step, he would 
have done so on behalf of OCMs client/Miss M, not as a client of OCM. In any case, no 
such termination happened. I also acknowledge that E1 was in a position to make decisions 
and give OCM instructions, but he did these also on behalf of OCMs client/Miss M, not as a 
client of OCM. It therefore follows that issue 3 is also without merit.
In terms of issue 2, OCMs obligation to adhere to the FCAs Principles is not in dispute. 
Indeed, it concedes this duty and it says it discharged this duty in every respect cited by E1 
by raising its concerns and by referring them to the OPG  and I agree. All the Principles E1 
has mentioned related to OCMs responsibility as a regulated firm towards its client  Miss 
M. I have seen no evidence that it held a vested and/or conflicting interest in the concerns it 
raised or in its referral of those concerns to the OPG, so Principle 8 (conflicts of interest) 
does not appear to be relevant; those concerns were legitimate and they were aimed 
towards safeguarding Miss Ms interests; so I do not consider that it acted without integrity 
(Principle 1) and I do not consider that its actions breached her interests or was unfair to her 
(Principle 6).
I am satisfied with documentary evidence showing that OCM monitored and managed the 
matters leading to its concerns adequately, first in its dealings with E1, then in its initial 
referral to the OPG, then in its continued dealings with E1 and then in its subsequent referral 
to the OPG. As such, I do not consider that it handled the matters without due skill, care and 
diligence (Principle 2) or that it mismanaged the matter (Principle 3).
There is evidence showing OCM in a reasonable level of transparent engagement with E1, 
on behalf of Miss M, with regards to the matters leading to its 2019 OPG referral, so I do not 
consider that it breached Principle 7s requirement for clear, fair and not misleading 
communications. I appreciate that E1 is unhappy that OCM did not give him prior notice of 
the 2019 OPG referral, but it was not required to do so and I am not persuaded that this, 
alone, amounted to a breach of Principle 7.
Principle 9 appears to be irrelevant given that it relates to relationships of trust with 
customers and to a firms responsibility to ensure the suitability of its advice (to) and of its 
discretionary decisions for a customer. Despite E1s suggestion or claim that there were 
grounds for him and Miss M to mistrust OCM, this is not an issue within the present 
complaint, and it is not an issue that has been presented to OCM for its response  so I do 
not address it. Furthermore, there is no issue about advice within the complaint and no 
matter related to OCMs discretionary investment management. If E1 cites Principle 9 in 
terms of the discretionary decision OCM made to refer its concerns to the OPG, I am 
satisfied that its referral and the concerns it referred were reasonable and legitimate, so I do 
not consider that it breached Principe 9 in this respect.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I do not uphold the estate of Miss Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
M to accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman