DRN-3703573
The complaint
Mr H complains about his insurer, Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) for 
the quality of repairs carried out on his car following a collision. 
In referring to Advantage, I include their agents and representatives.
This decision relates only to Mr Hs complaint about the mismatch of the paintwork 
resprayed as part of the repair of his car and the way his claim was handled by Advantage 
(in respect of which Advantage issued two final responses). It doesnt cover other aspects of 
complaint subsequently raised about the repairs.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr Hs car was involved in a collision. He contacted Advantage who 
arranged for it to be taken to a repairer for the damage to be fixed. They repaired the 
damage, including respraying the affected areas of the car.
 
However, Mr H noticed that the resprayed areas didnt match the colour of the rest of the car 
(which hadnt been resprayed). The reason for this was the car had previously been re-
sprayed in a different shade (although of the same colour). Mr H wasnt aware of this, having 
bought the car as used a few months before the collision. Unhappy at the mismatched 
paintwork, he complained to Advantage. 
Advantage didnt uphold his complaint. In their first final response they said the repairer 
resprayed Mr Hs car back to the colour the car was registered as having when it was 
manufactured. Advantage also said Mr H hadnt told them about any respray of the car when 
he took out the policy (which he did at the same time he acquired the car). But they 
acknowledged he wasnt aware of the car being resprayed before he acquired it. However, 
Advantage said it was his responsibility to check the car details (including the colour) when 
he acquired it and to declare those details when taking out his policy.
Mr H then complained to this service, unhappy that Advantages repairer had resprayed his 
car in the wrong colour, which he said meant it had lost some 20% of its value. He disagreed 
with Advantages view that the car was resprayed by a previous owner, saying to his 
knowledge the car hadnt been resprayed since its manufacture. He wanted Advantage to 
have his car resprayed in what he thought was the correct colour.
Following his complaint, Mr H made a second complaint to Advantage, raising issues about 
the way his claim was handled and the time and cost of having to contact Advantage (as well 
as his concerns about the mismatched paintwork). In their second final response they 
maintained their position on the issue of the mismatched paintwork and Mr H had been 
advised this would result in a mismatch with the previously resprayed colour of the car. 
Advantage also said the repairer wouldnt respray the whole vehicle as only part of the 
vehicle was damaged in the collision and theyd used the correct colour code.
Advantage also noted the findings of an independent engineers inspection of the car, 
including that parts of the car had been resprayed poorly on a previous occasion. Advantage 
also referred to a second report from the engineer that concluded the repair was of good 
quality and (in their opinion) commercially acceptable. Based on this, Advantage concluded 
the issue with the mismatched paintwork was a result of the previous respray of the car (not 
using the correct paint code) and not the fault of Advantage or the repairer. But they 
acknowledged the time Mr H spent raising the issues and the distress and inconvenience 
caused, awarding him £150 in compensation. They also offered to consider the costs of 
phone calls by Mr H, if he could produce phone bills to support those costs.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint, concluding Advantage hadnt acted fairly, leaving 
his car with mismatched paintwork. She didnt think it reasonable for Advantage to expect Mr 
H to be aware of the car having previously been resprayed (neither was the owner before Mr 
H). Particularly as the car had been resprayed in a different shade of the same colour (not a 
completely different colour). She concluded it was unfair for Advantage to leave Mr Hs car 
with mismatched paintwork. She thought Advantage should respray the repaired part of the 
car to match. If this wasnt possible, Advantage should have the whole car resprayed to 
match or pay a cash settlement equivalent to the cost of a respray. She also concluded 
Advantage hadnt progressed Mr Hs claim efficiently, but thought their compensation offer of 
£150 was fair in the circumstances.
Both Mr H and Advantage disagreed with the investigators view and requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. 
Mr H said since the collision he hadnt been able to enjoy his car because it had either been 
in for repair or the mismatched paintwork was a reminder of the unsatisfactory quality of the 
repairs. He also said hed suffered financially from the car depreciating since the collision 
when he hadnt benefited from its amenity value (which he estimated at £500). He also said 
the episode had been very stressful for him, for which he should be compensated (he 
thought £500 would be reasonable). He also thought Advantage should pay £1,000 in 
punitive damages for how theyd treated him, including their saying he withheld information 
about the car having been resprayed to obtain a lower premium.
Advantage said Mr H not telling them of the car having been resprayed raised the risk of 
insurers being subject to deliberate misrepresentation (as consumers could simply state they 
were unaware of a modification). They asked for evidence Mr H (or the previous owner) 
werent aware of the modification. They also said they were contractually obligated to repair 
the vehicle to the original specification and, even if Mr H had declared the modification (the 
respray), the policy included a condition that meant it wouldnt cover non-standard parts 
(modifications). Therefore, theyd acted correctly in accordance with the policy terms and 
conditions by respraying the car to its original specification (colour).
In my initial findings I concluded Advantage shouldnt take any further action. Based on the 
evidence available as well as further information requested as part of my consideration of 
the case, I didnt think, at that point, there was sufficient evidence the condition of Mr Hs car 
was such as to reasonably require Advantage to have further repair work carried out.
As I reached a different conclusion to our investigator, I issued a provisional decision setting 
out my findings and the reasons for my conclusion. This also provided the opportunity for 
both parties to consider matters further. 
Mr H provided further information and evidence, including a report from an engineer 
following an inspection of his vehicle. He also provided photographs of the vehicle taken 
during the inspection from a range of angles and readings taken of the paint quality 
(thickness) at various points of the vehicles bodywork, using a handheld device. 
The report concluded the nearside front wing had too much body filler applied during its 
repair and had residual damage to the wheelarch. The paintwork of the nearside passenger mirror was also heavy and rough to the touch. The report also concluded the paint applied to 
the wing and passenger door was too light, compared to the rest of the vehicle. The report 
concluded these faults were the result of poor workmanship and poor quality control.
 
The report recommended replacement of the nearside front wing and its repainting (and the 
passenger door) in the correct colour shade. It also recommended removing the cover from 
the nearside passenger door mirror and its repainting. The report didnt set out a detailed 
estimate of the cost of the work, but included indicative costs for labour, parts, paint and 
material totalling £1510 (including VAT).
Based on the report findings, Mr H wanted Advantage to settle his complaint by paying the 
estimated cost of the remedial work in the report, and the cost of his obtaining the report 
(£270, including VAT). He also wanted to be reimbursed for the time off hed taken off to 
obtain the report and for the estimated cost of a courtesy car for the time his vehicle would 
be in for the work (seven days at an estimated daily hire cost of £80, a total of £560).
Based on the additional evidence and information provided by Mr H, I reconsidered my initial 
findings and changed my view of the complaint, concluding it should be upheld. As I 
changed my view of the complaint, I issued a further provisional decision to give both parties 
the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below. I also provided a copy of 
the report from Mr Hs engineer to Advantage for them to consider.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
My role here is to decide whether Advantage have acted fairly towards Mr H.
Ive considered each of the points made by Mr H in turn. 
On the repot provided by his engineer, Ive considered its findings and conclusions carefully, 
alongside the photographs of his vehicle. Ive also considered the readings of the paint 
quality (thickness). While they arent direct indications of the paint code of the vehicle, 
together with the reports findings and conclusions, I do think they indicate specific issues 
with the quality of the repairs on parts of the vehicle. Ive also noted the findings of the report 
that the paint applied to the wing and passenger door was too light (compared to the rest of 
the vehicle). As the report was the result of a visual inspection of the vehicle, together with 
readings of the paint thickness, then I find the report persuasive and have concluded there is 
an issue with the quality of the repair work carried out on areas of the vehicle damaged in 
the accident. So, Ive changed my mind on this point.
Given this, Ive gone on to consider what I think would be a fair and reasonable outcome. 
While the report doesnt give a complete, costed estimate of the work needed to remediate 
the affected areas, it does contain indicative costs for labour, parts, paint and material 
totalling £1510 (including VAT). The figures are precise, so I think they are a reasonable 
basis for a settlement. In the circumstances, given Mr Hs concerns over the quality of the 
repairs previously carried out by Advantages repairers, I think its reasonable for Advantage 
to pay Mr H the estimate figure contained in the report (£1,510, inclusive of VAT). As Mr H 
commissioned the report, I also think its reasonable for Advantage to reimburse Mr H the 
cost (£270, including VAT) of obtaining the engineers report.
On Mr Hs request to be compensated for the time he took off to obtain the report and for the 
estimated cost of a hire car while the repairs to his vehicle are carried out, Ive considered 
both points. On the hire car issue first, if Mr H has repairs carried out to his vehicle, I think 
its reasonable to expect the repairer to make available a courtesy car (if Mr H needs one) 
for the time his vehicle is in for remediation. So, I dont propose to require Advantage to 
make any payment in this respect. On the question of compensation for his time off, our approach isnt to require businesses to 
directly pay for time taken off. But we do take account of what we think is the inconvenience 
to a consumer. In this case, I think it reasonable to reflect this in compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. In my provisional decision I thought Advantages offer of £150 was fair. 
However, I recognise Mr H suffered further inconvenience from having to obtain an engineer 
report. Taking this into account, I now think £250 for distress and inconvenience would be 
fair and reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I 
intend to require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr H the estimate figure in the engineers report (£1,510, inclusive of VAT) 
Reimburse Mr H the cost (£270, including VAT) of obtaining the engineers 
report.
Pay Mr H £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell them Mr H accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Mr H responded to say that settlement of his complaint should be based on an earlier 
estimate hed provided on the cost of repairs (rather than the figure in the engineers report). 
Or, settlement on a figure between the two figures. He also asked for the compensation 
figure for distress and inconvenience be reconsidered, as he thought it too low for the length 
of time and the stress of the time taken in the case.
Advantage didnt respond by the date requested for the further provisional decision, or when 
provided with a copy of the report from Mr Hs engineer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Advantage have acted fairly towards Mr H.
On Mr Hs first point, the estimate of the cost of repairs, Ive looked at the figures from the 
earlier estimate (totaling £2,342) and the figure in the engineers report (£1,510). The 
breakdown of the two indicates differences in the labour time (though the hourly rate 
appears to be the same) and the cost of materials (particularly paint). Ive also noted a 
separate, earlier accident repair estimate from the time of the original incident (which I 
understand may be from Advantages approved repairer). That totals £1,723.88. And a 
subsequent estimate from a different repairer totals £1,458. While different repairers will 
prepare estimates that reflect their assessment of the amount of work required, the parts and 
materials (as well as the hourly labour rate) Ive noted three of the figures are reasonably 
close to one another. 
While Mr H may prefer to use his nominated repairer, I think its reasonable to base a 
settlement (as I did in my second provisional decision) on figures included in Mr Hs 
engineers report. In the provisional decision, I acknowledged the report doesnt give a 
complete, costed estimate of the work needed to remediate the affected areas, but it did 
contain indicative costs for labour, parts, paint and material. The figures are precise, so I thought they were a reasonable basis for a settlement. Given what Ive said about the 
various estimates above, I havent changed my view on this point.
On the issue of compensation for distress and inconvenience, while I understand Mr Hs 
point about the impact and stress of the case, in my initial provisional decision I thought 
Advantages offer of £150 was fair. However, in my second provisional decision, I 
recognised Mr H suffered further inconvenience from having to obtain an engineer report. 
Taking this into account, I thought a higher figure (£250) for distress and inconvenience 
would be fair and reasonable. So, I havent changed my mind on this point
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to:
Pay Mr H the estimate figure in the engineers report (£1,510, inclusive of VAT) 
Reimburse Mr H the cost (£270, including VAT) of obtaining the engineers 
report.
Pay Mr H £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell them Mr H accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman