DRN-1757134
The complaint
Mrs P complains Aviva Insurance Limited has dealt with a claim made under her motor 
insurance policy unfairly. 
What happened
On 23 June 2018, Mrs P was involved in an accident which resulted in damage to her and 
the third party's cars. 
At the time of the accident Mrs P said she had driven through a green light when another car 
came from the left, hit her car which resulted in them both flipping over. However, the third 
party's statement was also that they gone through the traffic lights on a green light. As both 
parties to the accident stated they had a green light, Aviva felt this matter should be settled 
on a 50/50 liability basis. 
Mrs P agreed to this albeit reluctantly, as she didn't think she had done anything wrong. 
However, the third party insurer disputed this and felt Mrs P was 100% liable. After looking 
into the matter further Aviva agreed Mrs P was liable. This was because the only 
independent witness that presented themselves to the police felt Mrs P was at fault - that 
she was travelling at speed and the other party had the green light. 
Mrs P gave Aviva the details of a passer-by who had helped her on the day of the accident. 
He was initially willing to complete a statement that he didn't think she was responsible for 
the accident as he had crossed the road on a red man and so believed she must have had a 
green light. Aviva incorrectly said her witness hadn't supported her version of events, but it 
transpired the party it had been speaking with was the aforementioned independent witness. 
Mrs P contacted her witness, upset they hadn't supported her version of events. And it was 
at this point it transpired Aviva hadn't actually spoken with her witness; her witness became 
unhappy with the whole situation and subsequently refused to co-operate.
Mrs P was very unhappy and distressed about the situation and complained. She was also 
unhappy that it didn't appear Aviva was aware she had solicitors acting on her behalf, and 
that she had received treatment. And although she received settlement for her car, she 
hasn't received anything for her other losses. Aviva upheld her complaint. It agreed they had 
mixed up what witness they were speaking with. And it said it ought to have known about the 
solicitor's involvement. So it offered £250 compensation. But it didn't think it had done 
anything wrong about the liability decision as Mrs P's solicitors had felt her case had no 
reasonable prospects of success in court. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She has seen screen shots of the conversations Mrs 
P had had with her witness, which clearly showed he didn't think she was at fault. So she felt 
Aviva should reconsider the claim, and its liability decision. But Aviva didn't think this was 
necessary and so asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. And Mrs P remains 
unhappy with how the whole claim has been handled. 
I issued my provisional decision on 18 March 2020 explaining why I was minded to find that 
Aviva had already fairly resolved this complaint. Aviva said it had nothing further to add. Mrs P said she was hit from the left not the right; she doesn't believe £250 compensation is 
sufficient, her counselling alone cost more than that; and she believes the independent 
witness was the third party's son, which she told Aviva. 
I have considered Mrs P's further comments in my findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the background and arguments above, I would like to 
reassure both Mrs P and Aviva that I have read and considered everything provided in its 
entirety. 
It isn't my role to determine who is actually liable for the accident at the heart of this dispute, 
that would be a matter for a court of law. What I'm deciding is whether Aviva has acted in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the 
claim fairly. 
The starting point is the agreement between Aviva and Mrs P - the policy's terms and 
conditions. These include a provision that entitles Aviva to take over and conduct the 
defence or settlement of any claim. This is a common provision in all motor insurance 
policies I've seen and I don't find it unusual or surprising. 
Under the terms of the policy, Aviva can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. That 
might mean Aviva makes a decision that Mrs P disagrees with, as has happened here. But 
the terms and conditions of the policy allow Aviva to make such a decision. I don't think it 
was wrong of Aviva to settle the claim as it did. 
I turn now to whether Aviva has dealt with Mrs P's claim fairly and reasonably. Aviva 
originally tried to argue for a 50/50 settlement with the third party insurer. But it was the third 
party insurer who disagreed. It was right for Aviva to take into account what the independent 
witness has said about the accident. This was the only witness that had presented 
themselves to the police at the time. And the independent witness felt Mrs P was at fault for 
the accident. 
Mrs P has said the independent witness was, in fact, the third party's son and even goes so 
far as to suggest fraud might be occurring. That is a very serious allegation, and Mrs P 
hasn't provided any persuasive evidence in support of her belief. It remains the independent 
witness was the only witness that gave their details to the police at the scene, and I remain 
of the view it was right for Aviva to take the witness statement into account. 
Aviva also took into account what Mrs P's solicitors had said about the claim. They had 
obtained counsel's opinion who found Mrs P didn't have any reasonable prospects of 
success in court. Counsel would have expertise in these matters, and would know how a 
court would view the circumstances and what happened here. So I also think it was right for 
Aviva to take that legal opinion into account. 
However, I do accept that Aviva got it wrong when informing Mrs P her witness didn't 
support her version of events; it hadn't spoken with her witness then. And it is very 
unfortunate that her witness no longer wanted to be involved. But I'm not persuaded that 
even if it had obtained a statement from Mrs P's witness the outcome would be any different, 
given the information Aviva already had - including a no prospect's assessment from Mrs P's own solicitor. So I don't think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Aviva to now reconsider 
the claim, as I'm not persuaded the outcome would be any different.  
That said, I accept, as does Aviva, that it provided poor service. It clearly got the witnesses 
mixed up. And it appears it wasn't fully aware of Mrs P's legal involvement in her claim. So I 
can understand why Mrs P lost confidence in Aviva. But as I don't think either of these 
makes a material difference to the liability decision of Aviva, I'm satisfied the offer of £250 
it made for its service failings is fair. 
Mrs P has said this amount doesn't even cover her counselling sessions following the 
accident. The compensation offered by Aviva isn't to cover any of the additional costs or 
losses that Mrs P might have incurred as a result of the accident, but to compensate her for 
the inconvenience and upset caused by getting the witnesses mixed up. Nothing Mrs P has 
said in response to my provisional decision changes my view the amount already offered is 
fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint, as I'm satisfied 
Aviva Insurance Limited has fairly resolved it. I require it to pay Mrs P £250 if it hasn't 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman