DRN-3059439
The complaint
Mr A complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) paid him a lump sum payment from his 
pension pot too quickly and against his specific instructions. Mr A says he wanted the 
payment to be made in the 2020/21 tax year, but instead it was paid in the 2019/20 tax year. 
He says he had to pay a lot more income tax as a result of this.
Zurich denies it did anything wrong and says the payment was made as had been directed 
by Mr A.
What happened
Mr A had a small pension with Zurich from which he was able to make a limited number of 
withdrawals. He was also still employed and therefore earning a salary and had the option to 
draw from another pension he had too.
In March 2020 Mr A began asking Zurich about taking a withdrawal from his small pension. 
He says his previous experiences with Zurich was that this process would take several 
weeks to complete. Mr A says when he called Zurich he told the call-handler what he was 
planning to do. His intention, at that point, was to withdraw a lump sum. But to try and limit 
the income tax hed have to pay Mr A wanted to push the payment into the 2020/21 tax year, 
which at that point was around three weeks away. In the event, the payment was made but 
Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC) has said it was made in the 2019/20 tax year 
and so it has assessed Mr As overall income tax liability on that basis. Mr A has had to pay 
more income tax because he says this all pushed him into a higher tax bracket.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think we should uphold it. They 
noted that whilst Mr A made a number of phone calls to Zurich, the withdrawal form he 
eventually filled out lacked any instructions about him wanting the payment made in the 
future, rather than the present.  
Mr A didnt agree with this. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr A, but Im afraid Im not upholding his complaint.
Id like to place on record that I have no doubt Mr A is being completely honest and genuine 
when he says he wanted the payment made in the new tax year (2020/21). I can see he 
mentioned this in his phone call with Zurich on 17 March 2020. And it does seem 
unfortunate that Mr A is being told by HMRC that the payment fell into the old tax year. He 
didnt receive the payment until 7 April 2020 (although the BACS transfer from Zurich 
commenced 3 April 2020).
Nevertheless, the issue for me here is to determine whether Zurich did anything wrong. As I 
say, I do accept there was a conversation between Mr A and Zurich on 17 March 2020 and I 
have listened to the recording of that call. He rang up Zurich effectively to begin the process 
of arranging the drawdown of a small lump sum and I note the issue of the tax year  and his 
hope to pay his overall tax liabilities in the lowest possible bracket that year  was a feature 
of that conversation. I also fully accept that Mr As previous experience of drawing money 
from his pension is that it took several weeks to work through all the bureaucracy involved. 
So, I can see that Mr As expectation, as of mid-March 2020, was that all this would take a 
few weeks to sort out.
However, I also think its fair to point out that these were Mr As financial affairs and his call 
of 17 March 2020 was to get the process going. Having listened to the call, I dont think the 
Zurich call-handler did anything wrong. Her job was to listen to Mr A and fulfil his request to 
begin the process of him accessing his money. I agree with Mr A that at that point it was 
obvious what he wanted to do, but I think it was also obvious that the next stage was to 
formalise and confirm his wishes by filling out and signing a form as per the strict rules 
Zurich is required to work to.
As it happens, I dont think Mr A ever wanted to change his mind about when hed prefer to 
receive the money. However, many people do, or their circumstances change causing them 
to act differently. Thus, the whole point of the withdrawal form is to formally set out the 
consumers wishes. As our investigator pointed out, the form to withdraw the money 
contained an important section which said the funds would be processed once weve 
received all the information we need, and alternatively it allowed for a date to be inserted on 
the form if a specific date in the future was required for the payment. Mr A inserted only 
2020 on this part of the form and left the day and month sections blank.
I cant say why Mr A failed to specify a date, but it seems to me that this was his opportunity 
to formally confirm that the payment was being sought after the current tax year had ended. 
That he chose a time so close to the changeover in the tax year, makes that confirmation all 
the more important in my view. Put another way, even though Mr A had said on the phone a 
couple of weeks before that he wanted to be paid in the next tax year, clearly his 
preferences might have changed, for whatever reason. He was clearly told he would need to 
fill out the form which was being sent to him.
One might say that Zurich ought to have clarified the 2020 date Mr A had inserted on the 
form, but again, this part only needed to be filled out if a future date was being sought. So, 
whilst I think Zurich can take some learning from this, I do think the much greater responsibly 
in this case lies with Mr A himself. Clearly, I have the benefit of hindsight, and I imply no 
criticism of Mr A, but I can think of no reason why he wouldnt have filled out a future date on 
the form given both his wishes and the very close proximity to the tax year-end.
I have looked at everything Mr A has said following our investigators assessment with great 
care. However, Im afraid I do agree with what has been said by them - I think Mr As 
responsibility was to formalise his wishes for the payment to be made in the future. He failed 
to do that on the withdrawal form. Unfortunately for him, Zurich did process his withdrawal 
request rather quickly on this occasion, perhaps resulting in the payment arriving with Mr A 
much quicker than he had anticipated. 
So, I cannot find against Zurich for doing this; it processed Mr As instructions as hed 
outlined them on the form. The payment was made in accordance with the relevant terms 
and conditions and the rules Zurich operated to.My final decision
I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
I do not require Zurich Assurance Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman