DRN-3879315
The complaint
Mr I complains about the quality of a car he financed with Secure Trust Bank Plc.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr I entered a hire purchase agreement with Secure Trust for a car that was 
nine years old and had travelled 80,227 miles. The cash price was £8,995, Mr I paid a 
£2,000 deposit and he agreed to repay £10,812 over 59 monthly instalments of £146.70, 
plus a final payment of £156.70.
In August 2022 Mr I contacted Secure Trust to advise the car had broken down and a 
vehicle health check had confirmed numerous faults with the car, including, cracked 
headlight, air conditioning issue, suspension spring broken, front and rear brake pads worn, 
audio system inoperable and a rattling turbo actuator, he was quoted £5,221.61 for the 
repairs. Secure Trust advised Mr I to get in touch with the dealership for it to inspect the car 
and carry out repairs. Mr I contacted Secure Trust again in September 2022, he wasnt 
finding the dealership helpful, so he asked Secure Trust to assist. Secure Trust arranged for 
the car to be recovered back to the dealership.
Mr I advised Secure Trust that despite having the car, the dealership hadnt completed all 
the repairs. The dealership repaired the cracked headlight, it said the oil was low and hadnt 
been topped up by Mr I. It thought the remaining issues related to wear and tear and 
serviceable items. 
An independent inspection was arranged in November 2022. At the date of the inspection 
the recorded mileage was 85,175. The independent engineer confirmed the oil levels were 
critically low, and once oil was added, the car was able to start, and be test driven. The 
report concluded that the issues listed by the health check were all due to normal wear and 
tear, given the age and mileage of the car and didnt think the serviceable components that 
had failed, had done so prematurely. Secure Trust didnt think it was responsible for any 
outstanding faults, as they were due to normal wear and tear. 
 
Unable to resolve his complaint with Secure Trust, Mr I brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator looked into the complaint. He thought the outstanding faults were due to 
wear and tear of serviceable components, so he didnt think the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. 
Mr I disagreed, he said there had been further issues with the car, relating to the vanos unit 
being unplugged and a damaged boost pipe. Mr I believes the dealership tampered with the 
car and caused this damage. He wanted us to investigate the dealerships actions. The 
investigator explained that he couldnt look at the dealerships actions and as these were 
recent issues, he didnt think they were present at the point of supply, so didnt think Secure 
Trust were responsible for this.
Mr I disagreed. The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. I let Secure Trust 
know that I thought that it couldve done more to assist Mr I when the dealership wasnt 
responding. I said it should pay £150 compensation to reflect this, Secure Trust didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the whole file, an seen the more recent information Mr I has provided, but Ill 
concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont 
think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. And our 
rules allow me to do this, this reflects our informal, free service as an alternative to the 
courts.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here, I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Mr I is unhappy with the 
dealerships handling of this matter, but I think it would assist if I clarify that Im unable to 
consider the actions of the dealership, I can only look at what Secure Trust did and whether 
it needs to take any further action to resolve Mr Is complaint.
Mr I acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
cars quality
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr I. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of 
goods, Secure Trust is responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what 
a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other 
relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage 
at the time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability.
 
The CRA also says that goods must conform to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present 
when the car was supplied, unless Secure Trust can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car 
was faulty when Mr I took possession of it, and this made it not of a satisfactory quality, itd 
be fair and reasonable to ask Secure Trust to put this right. 
Mr I started experiencing issues within five-months of collecting the car. Cars are 
complicated machines and there are lots of things that can cause one to go wrong within five 
months of supply. When Mr I took possession of the car, it was 9 years old and had just over 
80,000 miles on the clock, and the cash price of the car, reflected this. And I think a 
reasonable person would expect an older car with high mileage to have suffered quite a bit 
of wear and tear and to consider that there is a greater risk that a number of components 
could be reaching the end of their serviceable life, than with a newer, less road worn car. 
So just because faults occur shortly after supply doesnt mean I can assume it was present 
at the point of supply. Also, its not enough simply for a fault to be present. The car would 
need to be of unsatisfactory quality because of the fault too, and not just due to normal wear 
and tear. 
As the faults here were reported within six months, its assumed the faults were present 
when the car was supplied and Secure Trust is responsible, unless it can prove otherwise. The independent engineer confirmed the issues highlighted in the health check, with 
exception to the audio system and air conditioning, which he found to be both operable and 
the broken headlight, which had been repaired. The engineer found the engine oil level was 
critically low and one litre of oil had to be added but didnt find any oil leaks. After test driving 
the car, the engineer reported no issues with performance or acceleration. He noted the 
brake pads still had reasonable lifespan remaining. The engineer reported the front nearside 
spring was broken and the offside spring was corroded but thought this was due to normal 
wear and tear. In respect of the turbocharger actuator, he noted a slight rattle could be 
produced due to some free play of the rod, again he thought this was due to normal wear 
and tear and didnt think it required complete replacement as outlined in the health check.
The independent engineer explained that main dealer health checks focus on bringing a car 
to a high standard of condition, in respect of the components and require a high standard of 
repairs, using main parts, which are more expensive than using more economical parts. In 
conclusion the engineer said the issues were a result of usual wear and tear, and there were 
no unusually high levels of deterioration. He concluded that the car would have been of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Based on the independent engineers findings Secure Trust said it wasnt responsible for any 
outstanding repairs. 
Mr I disputes the independent engineers findings. He says that we should rely on the vehicle 
health check and the health check video provided. However, I can see that the independent 
engineer did consider the health check report in detail and explained that a vehicle health 
assessment is carried out with the view to bring the cars components to a high standard. 
But Mr I didnt buy a new car, where I think it would be fair to expect the components to be of 
a high standard, he purchased a nine-year-old car, with over 80,000 miles on the clock, so I 
think its reasonable to expect that it would require on-going maintenance and some 
components would need replacement, due to wear and tear.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Is strength of feeling here, the independent engineer is an expert and 
is independent of both Secure Trust and Mr I. And Ive not seen any comments in the health 
check report or video to suggest any of the parts have worn prematurely or that the wear is 
related to a manufacturing defect. And in the absence of this Im satisfied that it is 
reasonable to rely on the engineers conclusions  that the faults identified relate to ongoing 
maintenance and serviceable components which require replacement, due to normal wear 
and tear.
In respect of the more recent issues with the vanos unit and boost pipe. I havent seen 
anything to suggest these issues were present at the point of sale, so cant find Secure Trust 
responsible for these problems. He has also noted that the dealership was verbally abusive 
towards him over the phone. I appreciate Mr I feels these recent issues are a result of the 
dealership tampering with the car, and that he also found the dealership to be rude, but Im 
unable to look into its actions.
In conclusion, I dont think the outstanding faults mean the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr I. And whilst I sympathise with Mr Is situation, I dont have any 
grounds to direct Secure Trust to cover the cost of repairing the car or allow him to now 
reject it.
customer services
Mr I says Secure Trust made a number of statements during telephone calls which led him 
to believe it would allow him to reject the car and also told him it would reimburse him for taxi 
costs, whilst he didnt have use of the car.
 Having listened to the calls, I think Secure Trust were clear that it was awaiting the findings 
from the report before it could make a decision. And I think it was clear that it couldnt 
guarantee taxi costs would be refunded, as it was awaiting the independent report. So, I 
dont uphold this element of the complaint.
Mr I is unhappy with the way Secure Trust handled his complaint; he doesnt think it did 
enough to assist him when the dealership was being unhelpful. Having looked at what 
happened, I agree that Secure Trust could have done more. When it was clear that the 
dealership wasnt responding I think it could have arranged for an independent inspection to 
have happened sooner. Because it didnt, I can see that Mr I had to make numerous calls to 
it to find out what was happening, to reflect this I think Secure Trust should pay Mr I £150 
compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is I partly uphold this complaint and direct Secure Trust Bank Plc to pay Mr 
I £150 compensation to reflect the frustration caused by failing to arrange an independent 
inspection to happen sooner.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman