DRN-2652783
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy because Metro Bank PLC has refused to refund all the money she lost 
after paying for two items, which she did not then receive. 
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary:
In April 2020, Miss T chose to use an online marketplace to buy a second-hand iPhone 
and says she was scammed twice in less than 48-hours, losing a total of £560.
Metro Bank tried promptly to recover the money from the beneficiary banks, after Miss T 
reported the matter. But both banks confirmed the money had already been removed 
from the receiving accounts. 
Metro Bank accepted Miss T had been scammed and it could have done more to warn 
her about such scams, but thought she was also partly responsible. So it refunded only 
50% of the money Miss T said shed lost  a total of £280, which was paid into Miss Ts 
account promptly after the bank received response from the beneficiary banks.
Miss T referred a complaint to us as she wanted the bank to refund all of her money. But I 
issued a provisional decision recently setting out why I thought Metro Bank had done 
enough. I said, in summary, that:
Metro Bank had considered Miss Ts claim under the Lending Standards Boards 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code). This requires firms to 
reimburse customers whove been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances.
Metro Bank accepted it didnt provide an effective warning  so it didnt meet the CRM 
Codes standards for firms. But it thought Miss T made the payments without having a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person she was expecting to pay; 
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with 
whom she transacted was legitimate. And, in such circumstances, the CRM code says 
the customer will only receive a 50% refund. Thats what Metro Bank had awarded and I 
was minded to think that was enough given all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Id seen the messages Miss T exchanged with both sellers during negotiations and after 
she sent the payments. Miss T asked the first seller why the phone was being sold so 
cheaply, as she thought this was too good to be true. It was clear Miss T was shopping 
around for a price she could afford and it seems likely she came to this conclusion 
having seen that some sellers were charging considerably more than the £310 or the 
£400 that the first and second sellers eventually agreed to accept. I also noted 
Metro Bank told Miss T, during a call about her claim that a well-known high street and 
online phone supplier was selling second-hand iPhone 11s for £550-£600. 
I was aware online marketplaces like the one Miss T used are an increasingly common 
way for private sellers to sell items they no longer want, use or need. And I accepted a 
private seller looking to make a quick sale might be more open to negotiate on the price 
or to sell an item for less than it might typically be worth. So I didnt dispute that 
individuals can, and do, find good deals online. But I noted price can be one indicator 
that there might be something untoward about the seller or the proposed deal. And I 
thought Miss T might have had suspicions about that during the first sale and certainly 
ought to have during the second sale, after concluding shed been scammed just a few 
hours previously.
Miss T asked both sellers some questions about why they were selling their phones and 
said she found the sellers stories plausible, but I had some misgivings. While I accepted 
the possibility of getting good deals via this sort of online marketplace, I thought Miss T 
ought to have made additional enquiries prior to transferring the money to the first seller 
given the low price being charged. And I thought she ought to have been even more 
discerning when she was looking to transact with the second seller after believing shed 
already been scammed.
I found it difficult to understand why Miss T agreed to pay the second seller by bank 
transfer/faster payment. She told the second seller shed been scammed and didnt trust 
bank transfers as a result. But then simply accepted that the second seller was genuine 
and was simply unable to accept payments through the marketplace due to some 
account limitations. Miss T didnt question the seller further about this, yet I thought a 
reasonable person ought to have had some concerns about paying a seller whod 
admitted to having account limitations and sought further information and reassurance.
At the top of the message threads to both sellers, the marketplace included the warning 
Remember, all payments must be made in-app to make sure youre covered by [name 
redacted] protection. This warning didnt mention, for example, that making payments in 
this way could help protect against the risk of being scammed. But it wasnt clear to me 
why Miss T ignored this warning in relation to both payments. And I found it even more 
difficult to understand why Miss T made the second payment by bank transfer despite 
having such strong reservations about this payment method. I note she mentioned those 
concerns in subsequent discussions with the bank. And I thought she made the 
payments by bank transfer accepting the risk that she wouldnt benefit from 
marketplaces protection if anything went wrong.
Miss T told our investigator that, before making the second payment, she asked the 
seller for the iPhones IMEI number and used this to check it was a genuine phone. That 
suggested to me she understood she needed to be more cautious about the second 
purchase. Having said this, the messages Id seen didnt suggest any such exchange of 
information took place. And Id seen nothing which supported Miss Ts suggestions that 
she undertook any checks to verify the sellers or the phones were genuine before 
making either payment.
Miss T didnt contact Metro Bank to report the loss from her interactions with the first 
seller before embarking on the second purchase. Metro Bank hadnt been able to 
provide a recording of her first call, but I listened to the subsequent calls including the 
one in which she reported the second incident. During this call Metro Bank talked at 
some length about the steps Miss T could take to protect herself from this type of scam 
and encouraged her to be vigilant. I thought it possible those warnings might have been 
given in the earlier call too. And/or could have been given before Miss T lost any more 
money if shed contacted the bank promptly after thinking shed fallen victim to a scam 
and before entering into further negotiations and transactions with the second seller.It wasnt clear to me why Miss T concluded so quickly that the first incident was a scam 
and proceeded to attempt a second purchase so quickly. And the correspondence she 
sent to the first seller  in which she asked for a refund because she needed to pay 
some other, unexpected bills  conflicted with what she told the second seller and the 
overall circumstances shed described.
Overall, I thought Miss T did have (or ought reasonably to have had) some concerns 
about the risk associated with both purchases. It followed that I didnt think she had a 
reasonable basis for believing she was making payments for genuine phones and/or that 
the sellers of the phones were legitimate. I was also satisfied that Metro Bank did all it 
could to try and recall the payments and paid the 50% reimbursement in good time.
Metro Bank accepted my provisional findings. But Miss T did not. She didnt provide any 
additional evidence for me to consider but said, in summary that
She was disappointed I hadnt agreed with the investigator that her complaint should be 
upheld and all of her money returned.
Metro did nothing to ensure she wasnt being scammed  some other banks and building 
societies are far more proactive.
Id made an unfair assumption about her financial situation. The fact she paid the second 
seller so quickly doesnt mean she had enough money to pay for other expenses.
At the time the events transpired she was young and didnt have much experience with 
online transactions and how to conduct them safely. This should be taken into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note what Miss T said in response to my provisional decision and can appreciate why shes 
disappointed I didnt agree with the investigators findings. But what shes said hasnt 
changed my mind.
 
Metro Bank has already admitted it could have done more to help but, for the reasons 
explained in my provisional decisions and summarised above, I think she must also bear 
some responsibility for her actions. I have made this decision taking into account everything 
into account including what she has told us about her personal and financial situation and 
the correspondence she exchanged with the sellers.
Overall, in all the circumstances, I remain satisfied Metro Bank neednt pay anything further 
to Miss T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman