DRN-3794549
The complaint
Mr N complains Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AAIS) did not advise 
him that when he made a windscreen claim on his motor insurance policy that this could 
have an impact on the cost of future policies.
What happened
Mr N contacted AAIS when he had a damaged windscreen.
Mr N was given the option if to have the windscreen repaired for free or have it replaced. 
After a discussion with an AAIS Advisor he chose to have the windscreen replaced and the 
claim for a new windscreen was accepted by AAIS. Mr N paid the policy excess.
When Mr Ns policy was due to renew AAIS sent him a renewal quote. He also obtained an 
alternative quote from another insurer for a better price. He contacted AAIS to ask them not 
to renew his policy. During this call AAIS informed him the windscreen claim he had made 
would need to be declared to any new insurer.
When he disclosed he had a claim to the alternative insurer the quote increased by £50.
Mr N said he assumed the claim would not affect him and would not be counted against him 
when purchasing insurance in the future. He said AAIS should have told him the claim would 
be recorded and it could increase his renewal price. He said he was not given enough 
information to make an informed decision and if he had known it could affect the price of his 
policy in the future he would not have opted for the replacement windscreen.
As Mr N was not happy with AAIS, he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and said AAIS had 
not misadvised Mr N and it had provided the correct information during the call to discuss the 
windscreen cover. They said AAIS had not done anything wrong by not advising the claim 
could affect Mr Ns premiums at renewal as this can vary from insurer to insurer. 
As Mr N is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case Mr Ns complaint is that during the call to AAIS on 6 December 2021 to discuss 
his damaged windscreen the advisor did not provide enough information for him to make an 
informed decision.
I listened to the call and the AAIS advisor clearly explained the options to Mr N of either a 
free repair or a replacement windscreen. Mr N made the choice of a new windscreen. 
Mr N feels it was the responsibility of AAIS to clarify how making the claim may affect future 
policies. I agree that the AAIS advisor did not inform him if he made a windscreen claim it 
may affect his future policy premiums nor would I expect it to. However, the advisor did refer 
to the choice of a replacement of the windscreen as a claim. 
It is important to understand that were not the industry regulator. That means I dont have 
the power to tell an insurer or broker how much it can charge for its policies. Neither is it my 
role to tell an insurer what factors it should take into account when assessing risk.
When calculating what premium to charge individual policyholders, all insurers will take 
numerous different factors into account  these are likely to include, but are not limited to, 
the policyholders postcode, the age of the drivers, the number of fault claims and non-fault 
claims etc. And different insurers assess risk differently. What is high risk to one may not be 
to another. Individual insurers may also use different data when assessing the risk posed. 
But thats not unusual or unfair. 
We cannot tell AAIS (or any insurer) that it should use, or discount, specific data. Thats 
because the risk is for each insurer to take on and it will decide how to assess it and will 
price the policies it offers accordingly. Prices can go up or down, depending on what it thinks 
the risks are that year for all of its customers.
Providing they treat people fairly; insurers and brokers are entitled to charge what they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk.
Claims are referenced throughout the terms and conditions of Mr Ns policy. On page 13 it 
says:
Glass damage
If this is the only damage claimed for. Your No Claim Discount will not be affected and is
subject to You having to pay the applicable windscreen Excess as shown on Your Statement
of Insurance.
On page 17 it says;
Claims that do not affect your No Claim Discount
If the only claim You make is under Glass damage - Section 2 Subsection 4
I saw in the policy documentation covering June 2021 to June 2022 Mr N had six years no 
claims discount and in his renewal invitation of June 2022 it had seven years no claim 
discount included. Therefore AAIS correctly increased his annual no claims discount and its 
renewal quote was fairly calculated.
When AAIS sent out its renewal invitation to Mr N after his windscreen claim the cost of the 
annual premium had reduced in price. 
I recognise that Mr N also looked at alternative quotes and found one that was lower than 
the renewal quote received from AAIS. However the alternative quote was calculated without 
Mr N declaring the claim for his replacement windscreen.
Mr N said he didnt disclose the claim as he did not know he had to. He said he had been 
under the impression that as it was not a claim that affected his no claim bonus, it did not 
need to be declared. He said because the claim for the windscreen did not affect his no 
claims discount it created confusion.
I accept Mr N may have been confused but after careful consideration I think the call was 
handled correctly and I think AAIS was clear to Mr N this was a claim. And past claims and all incidents, accidents, and losses relating to a motor insurance policy regardless of blame 
and whether the subject of an insurance claim or not has to be declared, when asked.  
I think enough information was provided to Mr N for him to make a choice on what to do 
about his damaged windscreen. 
It would not be possible for AAIS to advise Mr N on the impact of a claim to a future policy 
either from its own panel of insurers nor any other insurer. This would be an assumption. 
And in addition AAIS do not have access to such information. That is confidential to each 
insurer.
Therefore, although I know Mr N will be disappointed I do not uphold his complaint and do 
not require AAIS to do anything further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman