DRN-3628581
The complaint
Mr W has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc avoided (treated it as if it never existed) 
his motor insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr W took out a motor insurance policy with AXA through an online price comparison site. 
When he was involved in an accident with another driver, he tried to claim on his policy. AXA 
declined his claim, avoided his policy and refunded the premiums hed already paid. When 
Mr W complained, it said hed answered the question hed been asked about modifications 
to his car incorrectly. And that it considered this to be a qualifying misrepresentation, which 
entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his claim. 
Mr W brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And she thought AXA wouldnt have 
offered cover without the misrepresentation. So she said AXA was entitled to avoid the 
policy and decline the claim. 
Mr W doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He 
said the modification, a wrap to protect the paintwork, didnt affect his cars performance. 
And he thought it wasnt made clear that the wrap was a modification.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr W feels frustrated and stressed by AXAs decision about his policy 
and the claim. Mr W has told us about the financial impact on him of AXAs decision. And I 
can see that its decision to decline the claim will have a significant cost for him, and the 
avoidance will mean that future insurance costs will increase. 
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
AXA thinks Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application via a comparison site that his car didnt have any modifications. And 
Ive looked at the question he was asked when he completed the application and agree he 
failed to take reasonable care. 
This is because he was asked Does the car have any modifications?. A help box provides 
assistance to answer the question correctly:
Modifications are non-standard changes made to the car after manufacture, including new 
spoilers, alloy wheels etc. 
If the question was answered Yes, a list of possible modifications was provided. This 
included Exterior decorative changes under Body modifications. And I think this was a 
clear question asked by AXA through the comparison site Mr W used.
Mr W chose No in answer to the question and hes explained that this was because he 
thought the vinyl wrap hed added didnt change the car but just protected its paintwork. But I 
think the vinyl wrap is a modification as it is a non-standard change made after manufacture. 
And I think this means Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he said his car didnt have any modifications. 
AXA then provided Mr W with his policy documents and asked him to make sure his 
information was correct at all times. The policy schedule said that the car had no 
modifications and provided AXAs definition of modifications:
Any modification which change the makers standard specification including cosmetic 
changes or manufacturers options.
But Mr W didnt then notify AXA that the car had a vinyl wrap. 
AXA has provided evidence which shows that if Mr W had not made this misrepresentation it 
would not have offered a quote for cover at all. This means I am satisfied Mr Ws 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
AXA refunded Mr Ws premiums in full. So it has treated the misrepresentation as careless. I 
think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances as I havent seen evidence that Mr W 
deliberately misrepresented the modification. 
Therefore, Im satisfied AXA was entitled to avoid Mr Ws policy in accordance with CIDRA. 
And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, AXA does not have to deal with 
his claim following the accident. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing AXA to rely on it to avoid Mr Ws policy produces 
the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman