DRN-3585276
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Js complaint is about a mortgage endowment policy they held with Aviva Life & 
Pensions UK Limited. They are unhappy about the difficulties theyve encountered in 
providing Aviva with the necessary identification for Mr J, which has delayed the release of 
the maturity value.
What happened
In early June 2021 Aviva wrote to Mr and Mrs J to remind them their policy had matured in 
2011, but they hadnt claimed the value. It then set out that they needed to provide the 
original policy document, a completed payment release form and provide some identification 
relating to the bank account they wanted the money paid into. This could be a bank 
statement dated within the last six months.  
On 6 October 2021 Mrs J called Aviva to check that the previous lender had released its 
interest in the endowment policy. Aviva confirmed that this had happened. During the 
conversation Mrs J mentioned that Mr J was working overseas at the time. As the money 
would be being paid into Mrs Js sole name bank account, Aviva noted that it would need 
permission from Mr J for this to happen. Mrs J provided a telephone number for Mr J, but 
unfortunately gave the wrong number. 
The payment release form was signed by both Mr and Mrs J on 6 October 2021. 
Unfortunately, when completing the details of the account the money was to be paid into, 
Mrs J was detailed herself as the only accountholder, despite the bank statement 
accompanying the document showing it was a joint account. A copy of Mrs Js driving 
licence was also provided.
On 19 October 2021 Aviva wrote to Mr and Mrs J telling them that it couldnt pay the money 
as the policy was a joint one, and so the proceeds could only be paid into a bank account in 
Mrs Js sole name if Mr J consented. It also commented on the fact that Mr J was at that 
time overseas, but didnt explain why this affected the process. It explained that Mr J could 
telephone to give consent, at which time it would complete identification orally, or he could 
write to it. If the latter option was taken, it would require a certified copy of Mr Js passport or 
photo card driving licence. In addition, it needed proof of address for Mr J at his overseas 
address. Aviva explained who was able to certify the identification documents.
The following week Mrs J wrote to Aviva and explained that when the payment release form 
had been filled in, shed mistakenly stated the bank account was in just her name. She 
confirmed that it was a joint account as could be seen from the copy bank statement that 
had been enclosed with the payment release form. It is unclear whether Aviva reviewed this 
letter and accepted that it didnt need Mr Js consent, as it didnt respond to Mrs Js letter. 
Aviva next wrote to Mr J on 22 November 2021 saying that it had completed some checks 
and that the signatures on the original policy application form and the payment release form 
didnt match. As such, Aviva needed him to complete a declaration confirming signature, title 
and indemnity before the policy value could be paid. In addition, it also required a certified 
copy of either his passport or driving licence, and evidence of his overseas address. It 
confirmed who could certify the copy documents. 
In its final response letter of 24 November 2021 Aviva set out that Mr and Mrs Js policy had 
lapsed in 2010 and it detailed the attempts it had made in 2010 and 2013 to contact them to 
release the surrender value of the policy. It said it had reissued documents on 8 June 2021 
and received them back on 7 October 2021. It said that it wrote back to Mr and Mrs J on 
19 October 2021 saying it needed Mr Js agreement to release the funds. When that was 
provided, Aviva said it noticed his signature didnt match and wrote out on a few days later 
explaining what it needed to happen. Aviva said it had followed its standard process and 
didnt consider it had done anything wrong. 
Mr J proceeded to arrange for a notary public in the country he was working in to complete 
an authentication process. The document he signed requesting the authentication process 
detailed his passport number and his overseas address. The document was signed and 
stamped by a firm of lawyers and legal consultants. A further document, letterheaded as the 
judicial department of the firm of lawyers was also attached, which contained the same 
stamp and signature. The signatory was confirmed to be a notary public. A translation of this 
document was provided, which said that:
The signatures of the stakeholders were approved by their acknowledgement and 
verification of their identity, eligibility, qualities and acceptance.
These documents, along with a copy of Mr Js passport, were sent to Aviva on 16 December 
2021. Aviva declined to accept the documents because the notary public hadnt signed the 
copy of Mr Js passport. It set out again who could certify the copy identification.
On 27 April 2022 Aviva confirmed to Mr and Mrs J why the policy proceeds hadnt been paid. 
This being that it had procedures to follow that ensure the security of their customers 
information and funds. It didnt consider it had done anything wrong. 
Mr and Mrs J remained unhappy with Avivas responses and referred their complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She 
agreed that technically, the information Mr J had provided didnt meet the criteria Aviva had 
set out. However, she was satisfied that the documentation provided by the overseas notary 
public was sufficient to evidence the passport had been reviewed and was being certified. As 
such, she considered that Aviva should accept the evidence provided and proceed to pay 
out the policy value.
Mr and Mrs J accepted the investigators conclusions. Aviva didnt respond. As such, the 
investigator decided to progress the complaint to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has said that it wont pay out the policy proceeds because it is not satisfied with the 
identification and address verification that Mr J has provided. Aviva is right that it needs to 
have policies and procedures in place to protect its customers. However, it also has to treat 
its customers fairly.
In this case Aviva has been provided with documentation from a notary public, which it lists as a profession that it will accept certification from, confirming that it has verified Mr Js 
identity. It has also a linked documentation, stamped by the same notary public, that confirm 
both Mr Js overseas address and his passport number. Aviva has not raised any concerns 
about the suitability of the notary public, so the issue it has would appear to be about the 
format of the documentation. 
The documentation provided is clearly not in the format that Aviva was anticipating. That isnt 
necessarily unexpected, as different countries have different legal systems and procedures. I 
consider that Aviva should have taken this into account when assessing whether to accept 
the documentation provided. The entire purpose of the exercise was for Aviva to be able to 
verify Mr Js identity. The documentation provided confirms that a notary public, working for 
a legal firm, in the country Mr J was residing in at the time had verified his identity. I am 
satisfied that Aviva should, reasonably, have accepted the documentation as evidence of 
Mr Js identity, especially in light of the fact that the money for the policy was being paid into 
a joint account in the UK, that it had verification of. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint, I 
require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr and Mrs J the proceeds of their policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman