DRN-2950384
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs decision not to cover his claim.
What happened
Mr S had legal expenses benefit under his home insurance policy. He explained that his 
previous GP had ignored his requests for medical proof that he suffered with symptoms of 
narcolepsy. Mr S said hed requested this information on several occasions because his 
previous employer was becoming increasingly impatient with the symptoms he suffered 
whilst at work. Mr S also said his GP overlooked his medical diagnosis, in 1991, and refused 
to give him the necessary medical proof so that he could confirm his illness with his 
employer. This resulted in his employment being unfairly terminated and so he brought a 
claim about this medical negligence under his legal expenses cover. 
RSA declined his claim and said theres no cover under the policy for this type of problem. 
Our investigator thought RSA had declined his claim fairly and agreed that this fell within the 
exclusions section of the policy terms.
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said;
RSA should accept the claim because he pays national insurance premiums which 
Mr S said satisfies the term paying for a service as he effectively pays for his GP. 
The policy terms are worded in such a way that they mislead consumers and that 
RSA rely on their broad meanings to unfairly decline claims;
Should this not fall within RSAs scope, then it should help him identify where to bring 
his complaint and;
The policy may not be fit for purpose and therefore we should consider whether its 
been mis-sold.
And so, its for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. My reasons for doing so are 
similar to those already explained by our investigator in that theres no cover available in 
these particular circumstances. Ill explain why.
The policy terms say about consumer protection;
B Consumer Protection
1. The cost of you taking legal proceedings against another person or organisation as a 
result of:
a. a dispute over a contract for buying, selling or renting goods or services;
b. a person or organisation breaking the requirements of Part II, Section 13 of the Data
    Protection Act 1998; and where breaking those requirements results in you losing money.
2. The cost of defending a legal action brought against you as a result of a dispute over a 
contract for buying, selling or renting goods or services
Mr S argument is that the insurer should cover his legal costs so that he can take his GP to 
court for the poor treatment he suffered. Mr S said that his employment was terminated 
because his employer didnt understand or accept that he suffered with narcolepsy. And so, 
Mr S needed his GP to provide medical evidence to share this with his employer and 
potentially remain employed. Because this was withheld, Mr S was unable to evidence his 
illness. But the policy doesnt afford him cover in the circumstances because theres no 
contract in place between him and the GP. 
Mr S believes the relationship between him and his GP is such that it satisfies the policy 
term above because theres an intended contract between them. Mr S said that because he 
pays national insurance premiums, which partially covers health services, theres effectively 
a payment for goods. But Im not persuaded by what he says here. And thats because the 
above term isnt intended to cover this type of complaint. 
Instead, this term is aimed towards providing cover for consumers who have unknowingly 
bought a faulty item for example, perhaps a car. In that scenario theres usually an intended 
contract between the buyer and seller of the goods and a reasonable expectation that its 
functional for its intended purpose. When I consider that example and how the terms would 
apply, Im satisfied that Mr S circumstances do not align with the clause above. 
RSA declined Mr S claim because there wasnt a contract between him, and the GP and Im 
satisfied thats fair, given what Ive just explained. I acknowledge Mr S arguments about 
covering costs through his national insurance premiums, but for the reasons Ive explained, 
Im not persuaded that satisfies the criteria set out above.
Mr S may have had an opportunity to bring a complaint about the quality of care he received 
from his GP through another Alternative Dispute Resolution scheme, but it sounds as though 
he may have already exhausted that route. Given what Ive explained, theres no cover 
available under this policy and so I dont uphold this complaint. 
Mr S has suggested that this policy may have been mis-sold because theres no cover in the 
circumstances. I should say that Ive not considered that element because it wasnt part of 
his original complaint. Further, this was effectively an additional extra added to his home 
insurance policy, which is provided by another insurer, so wouldnt fall within the 
responsibility of RSA.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons given above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Scott SladeOmbudsman