DRN-3228543
The complaint
Miss I complains that loans she had from Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) were 
unaffordable to her.
What happened
Miss I had three instalment loans from Lending Stream between August 2017 and July 2018 
as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
Repayment*Due Repaid
1 30 Aug 2017 £100 6m £36.32 28 Feb 2018 27 Oct 2017
2 23 Jun 2018 £500 6m £176.05 31 Dec 2018 29 Jun 2019
3 15 Jul 2018 £90 6m £203.48 31 Dec 2018 29 Jun 2019
* Including overlapping loans
Miss I says she had poor mental health, existing credit commitments and no disposable 
income when she applied for the loans. She says Lending Stream should have carried out 
better checks as the lending was unsustainable and she couldnt afford essential bills and 
had to borrow from friends. She adds that she was consistently over her limits on existing 
credit and payments on other loans were late or through debt management plans. Miss I 
says that her employment situation was unstable and her mental health and financial 
situation worsened as a result of the lending.
Lending Stream says it asked Miss I about her employment and income, as well as her 
regular outgoings. It says it sanity-checked these figures with statistics from independent 
sources and revised them upwards if required. Lending Stream says it also carried out a 
credit check to understand Miss Is existing credit commitments and found loans 1 and 2 
were affordable to her. However, it acknowledged that the pattern of lending should have 
indicated it may not have been responsible to approve loan 3, so it agreed to uphold Miss Is 
complaint about that loan.
Miss I rejected this offer.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. As Lending Stream 
confirmed it agreed to uphold the complaint about loan 3, he did not consider that loan any 
further. For loans 1 and 2, he was satisfied Lending Streams checks went far enough and 
there was nothing in the available information that should have indicated to Lending Stream 
that the repayments were unsustainable.
Miss I responded to say that she wanted an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss I could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should reasonably have done 
more to establish the lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting a risk of repeated refinancing 
signalling the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether Miss I could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Is complaint.
Loan 1
When Miss I applied for this loan, Lending Stream asked her about income and expenditure 
and carried out a credit check. As the loan was Miss Is first, and the maximum repayment was only around 3% of her income, Im satisfied Lending Stream was entitled to rely on the 
information she provided. As it is, Lending Stream considered Miss I had understated her 
expenditure, but even with an adjustment, it found she had over £500 of disposable income.
As Miss Is credit file showed no active accounts, and no delinquent or defaulted accounts, I 
find these checks went far enough and that there was nothing in the available information 
that should have indicated to Lending Stream that the repayments were unsustainable.
So Im satisfied Lending Stream was not irresponsible when it approved loan 1.
Loan 2
Miss I repaid loan 1 early and there was an eight-month gap before she applied for loan 2. 
This time the repayments were over 12% of Miss Is income, but due to the gap in lending 
and the good repayment history, Im again satisfied that Lending Streams checks went far 
enough. Miss Is credit score had improved, and she now had active credit accounts. Again, 
there was no adverse information on her credit file and existing credit commitments did not 
indicate further lending was unsustainable. Lending Stream increased Miss Is declared 
expenditure, but again found she had sufficient disposable income to maintain repayments.
So I find Lending Stream made a fair lending decision for loan 2.
As Lending Stream has agreed to uphold Miss Is complaint about loan 3, and its redress is 
in line with our standard approach, I wont consider it further here.
In summary, Im not upholding the complaint about loans 1 and 2, but Lending Stream has 
confirmed its offer for loan 3 is still available to Miss I.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman