DRN-2252490
The complaint
Miss R complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE acted unfairly and unreasonably in how its 
dealt with her claim under a travel insurance policy. She wants matters put right.
What happened
Miss R had a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes to go abroad with another 
relative in April 2020; the policy covered Miss R and her child. She also bought the extra 
travel disruption cover. The flight and accommodation were booked separately. The policy 
and extra cover were bought on 6 March 2020, and Miss R said that the agent assured her 
that the flight and accommodation would be covered in full if the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office (FCO) advised against travel due to Covid 19. 
On 17 March 2020, the FCO advised against all but essential travel. The country Miss R 
planned to visit closed its borders. Miss R cancelled her accommodation and the airline 
cancelled the flight and offered her a voucher for one year. She said that the accommodation 
offered to allow Miss R to rebook at another date before December 2021, but she couldnt go 
at another time as her child had to attend school and another relative attending the holiday 
wouldnt be able to come until a vaccine had been delivered.
Miss R claimed for her accommodation costs under the policy. Great Lakes said it would 
only pay up to £500 per insured person unless the extra travel disruption cover had been 
purchased, but it wouldnt pay anything as the costs were recoverable through rebooking. 
Miss R complained, pointing out that she couldnt simply rebook due to her personal 
circumstances, the country was still closed to tourists, the accommodation was already 
booked during the school holidays up to the end of 2021, and she had bought the additional 
cover due to the assurances from the agent when buying the policy. Miss R was also moving 
abroad so wouldnt be able to use the airline involved. Great Lakes said that it didnt think 
that there was an irrecoverable loss as the accommodation could be rebooked up to 
December 2021 and the flights were covered by a voucher.
Miss R complained to us and said she felt particularly unhappy that shed bought the extra 
cover and was left out of pocket. Miss R added that she wanted the flight costs paid for the 
same reasons  she couldnt use the voucher from the airline, though she was still trying to 
get a cash refund and was pursing this through other avenues. Miss R provided evidence 
that the accommodation wouldnt refund the cash and Miss R wasnt rebooking.
The investigators view was that the flight costs were recoverable as Miss R was using other 
avenues to get the refund, and was entitled to it under European regulations. He said that 
Great Lakes was acting fairly and reasonably in refusing to pay this aspect of Miss Rs claim. 
But the investigator said that the accommodation costs with interest should be paid by Great 
Lakes as it was clear Miss R couldnt use the offered credit in her circumstances as she was 
restricted by school holidays, needed another adult to come (due to the FCO warnings about 
crime in the country) and her relative couldnt come without the vaccine being delivered.
Great Lakes disagreed. It said that the policy only covered specified perils and it shouldnt 
have to pay Miss Rs claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I refer to Great Lakes, Im also referring to its agents. The relevant rules and industry 
guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. 
And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The starting point is the policy. It says it will cover cancellation costs (up to a specific limit 
depending on the level of cover taken out) if the FCO issue a directive advising against all, 
or all but essential travel to your trip destination because of an earthquake, fire, flood or 
hurricane. This means Miss Rs claim isnt covered by the standard policy as it doesnt 
cover cancellation claims due to FCO advice for anything other than the reasons quoted.
But Miss R did buy the additional travel disruption cover and this offered more extensive 
protection. It says We will pay you up to a maximum of  for any irrecoverable unused 
travel and accommodation costs (and other prepaid charges) which you have paid or are 
contracted to pay, plus any reasonable additional travel expenses incurred if you were not 
able to travel and use your booked accommodation  as a result of the Travel Advice Unit 
of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) or 
regulatory authority in a country/ to/from which you are travelling issuing a directive: a) 
prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to.
The FCO did issue such advice and this led to the airline cancelling the flight, and Miss Rs 
cancellation of the accommodation (as did the closure of the countrys border).
The extra cover refers to irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs. Theres 
an exclusion which says the extra cover doesnt cover any costs incurred by you which are 
recoverable from the public transport operator or for which you receive or are expected to 
receive compensation, damages, refund of tickets, meals, refreshments, accommodation, 
transfers, communication facilities or other assistance. The policy also says that it wont 
cover costs recoverable elsewhere. 
This means Miss R is only covered for losses that cant be recovered  vouchers, credit and 
offers to rebook can be seen as recoverable. However, it all depends on the individual 
circumstances whether its fair and reasonable to view losses covered by vouchers or similar 
as irrecoverable. 
In their response to the investigators view, Great Lakes made a number of representations 
about the guidance from the FCO and the exclusions in the policy. But I dont think that is the 
central issue in this particular case. I think the key issue is whether Great Lakes has fairly 
concluded the costs are irrecoverable for Miss R. 
In Miss Rs case, I think the flight costs arent yet irrecoverable  Miss R is using the 
arbitration service to get a cash refund, and shes entitled to it under the relevant regulations. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline that aspect of Miss Rs claim.
However, Miss R has explained and sent persuasive evidence about why she cant rebook 
the accommodation by the deadline of December 2021 - shes a single parent, has since 
moved abroad and is also limited to travelling in the school holidays. I note that Miss R was 
originally due to travel with her relative and that the FCO has provided guidance about the 
level of crime at the destination. Miss R has also explained that there isnt availability at the 
accommodation during the school holidays for 2021. The accommodation has confirmed it wont refund Miss R and noted that she cant rebook. The countrys borders remains closed 
to tourists at this time and there is no way to know when they will reopen. The evidence Ive 
seen also suggests that its most likely that the voucher isnt transferrable as I dont think that 
Miss R can apply the voucher towards alternative holiday accommodation in a different 
destination. 
I think it is fair and reasonable for her financial loss for the accommodation to be considered 
irrecoverable given her specific circumstances - including her more limited scope to travel 
and her understandable wish to travel with an adult relative to this particular destination. In 
all the circumstances, I think Great Lakes didnt act fairly or reasonably in declining this part 
of Miss Rs claim as Im satisfied the accommodation costs should be considered as 
irrecoverable for Miss R, given her specific circumstances.
Putting things right
Great Lakes should refund the accommodation costs in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, which is comprehensive and includes the extra travel disruption 
cover, together with 8% simple interest a year from the date of claim to the date of payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that Great Lakes Insurance SE should accept Miss Rs claim in respect 
of the accommodation costs and pay the money, together with interest as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman