DRN-3826570
The complaint
Mr A1 and his father, Mr A2, complain that Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited (MAB) made an 
error in their mortgage application and that the product didnt meet their requirements.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr A1 and Mr A2 asked MAB to source them a mortgage. MABs mortgage 
requirements report dated 22 April 2021 sets out Mr A1 and Mr A2s needs along with MABs 
recommendations. The two key elements relevant to whats being complained about here 
(which I note arent disputed) are that they wanted a Joint Borrower Sole Proprietor (JBSP) 
mortgage and to have a two-year fixed rate. Mr A1s and Mr A2s mortgage application was 
submitted to a lender where it was approved, and a mortgage offer issued.
In November/December 2021, MAB re-applied for the same mortgage for Mr A1 and Mr A2  
they explained the lender had required this because the original offer had expired. Ahead of 
completion in February 2022, Mr A1 and Mr A2s solicitor flagged that the mortgage hadnt 
been set up on a JBSP basis. Mr A1 and Mr A2 say this issue was sorted out by their 
solicitor and so it didnt cause a delay to completion of the purchase, but that the mortgage 
offer had to be reissued and wasnt fully sorted out until a month later which they found 
extremely stressful. They think this happened because MAB didnt submit the re-application 
correctly.
Upon receiving the mortgage documents after completion, Mr A1 and Mr A2 noticed that it 
said their interest rate was fixed for 15 payments until May 2023, rather than for the 
24 months theyd expected. Mr A1 and Mr A2 say they agreed to a product fee of £999 
thinking this was for a two-year fixed rate. Theyre unhappy that theyll potentially have to 
pay another product fee sooner than expected and that they wont have the fixed rate for as 
long as theyd thought.
When they complained to MAB, MAB said the product was suitable at the time of the advice 
and the documentation had been clear about when the fixed rate would end. MAB said it 
wasnt responsible for when the purchase took place and its the lender who sets the product 
end date. MAB has also since said in relation to the JBSP issue that the lender was chosen 
because it accepted JBSP and that the product was a joint mortgage  it says it would be for 
Mr A1 and Mr A2s solicitor to deal with the deeds side of things.
When Mr A1 and Mr A2 complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr A1 and Mr A2 didnt accept their findings; they said their mortgage officially started after 
their purchase due to the delays caused by needing to amend the mortgage. And that theyd 
asked MAB if they needed to do anything else as part of the renewal and they think it should 
have come out then that the rate wouldnt be fixed for two full years. So, the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision by an ombudsman.
I asked the investigator to contact MAB and the lender for further evidence in relation to what 
MAB should have included on the mortgage application about the fact that Mr A1 wouldnt be 
on the deeds (i.e. the JBSP element). The lender confirmed it was something that should 
have been confirmed on the application. MAB didnt provide a response within the deadline 
set.
I issued my provisional decision on 27 October 2022 explaining why I intended to uphold the 
complaint. In summary I thought the term of the fixed rate on the mortgage was clear and 
that as a whole the mortgage wasnt unsuitable for Mr A1 and Mr A2. But that I thought MAB 
had made an error in not including the JBSP information on the mortgage application and 
that it should pay Mr A1 and Mr A2 £300 compensation for the impact this had on them.
Mr A1 and Mr A2 didnt agree, they said (in relation to the term of the fixed rate) that MAB 
knew the anticipated completion date was in December 2021 when they recommended the 
mortgage in April 2021. But they did accept that £300 was fair compensation for the issue 
with the JBSP on their mortgage application.
A reminder was sent to MAB on 2 November 2022, but our service hasnt received a 
response from MAB response by the deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including considering Mr A1 and Mr A2s response to my provisional 
decision, Im upholding this complaint. Ill address each point in turn.
Was the product suitable  including the initial fixed rate period?
Im satisfied the term of the fixed rate on the mortgage was clear and that as a whole the 
mortgage wasnt unsuitable for Mr A1 and Mr A2 for the following reasons:
The mortgage requirements report from April 2021 is a written record of what was 
discussed and agreed at the time of the advice and so Ill be giving significant weight 
to this evidence.
This report explains that Mr A1 and Mr A2 wanted a maximum two-year fixed term 
because they wanted some stability whilst retaining the option to review their 
circumstances. Mr A2 expected to have returned to work consistently and therefore 
have a higher disposable income in the next two years. At the time of the mortgage 
application (the initial offer was made in May 2021), the fixed rate ran until May 2023, 
which did meet this need.
I understand Mr A1 and Mr A2s point that the mortgage was never intended to start 
before December 2021 due to the purchase being for a new build property, but the 
timeframes around their needs and circumstances were in April 2021. Mr A1 and 
Mr A2s needs hadnt substantially changed  for example they didnt inform MAB of 
any change to when they expected Mr A2 to have returned to work.
Theyve mentioned that the mortgage offer was only valid for six months and so 
would always have ended before they could use it. I note it isnt unusual for a 
mortgage offer to be limited for a set period of time such as six months but Mr A1 and 
Mr A2 were able to reapply for the same mortgage with no additional cost.
The report also says Lenders determine when the initial rate period of your product 
ends in one of two ways i.e. either a fixed amount of time after completion, or on a certain end date. During our conversations I advised you how the lender will apply 
this to your recommended mortgage. The details of when the initial rate on your 
product will expire can also be found in the Mortgage Illustration I provided. So, Im 
satisfied it was discussed and that Mr A1 and Mr A2 were aware of how the initial 
rate period applied to their mortgage offer.
Further, each mortgage illustration and mortgage offer provided to Mr A1 and Mr A2 
in relation to this product (including in April/ May 2021 and November/ December 
2021) clearly states the fixed rate will end on 31 May 2023. So, I think Mr A1 and 
Mr A2 could have questioned this if this was different from their understanding of the 
mortgage offer.
Mr A1 and Mr A2 say they wouldnt have agreed to a product fee of £999 had they 
known the product only provided a fixed rate for around 15 months. But Ive 
explained why I think it was clear when the rate would end and why this product met 
their needs.
Whilst Mr A1 and Mr A2 may now think other products would have been more 
suitable for them in November 2021, and say rates are now rising, this is with the 
benefit of hindsight. I wouldnt have expected MAB to provide fresh advice at the 
point of effectively renewing the offer given nothing significant had changed in Mr A1 
and Mr A2s circumstances and no concerns were raised at the time.
Did MAB include the correct information on the mortgage applications?
Mr A1 and Mr A2 say their November/ December 2021 application was done incorrectly 
because it wasnt set up with the lender as a JBSP mortgage. I think its likely that this is 
information that MAB should have made clear in the mortgage application for the following 
reasons:
It isnt disputed that MAB knew Mr A1 and Mr A2 wanted a JBSP mortgage and that 
this was taken into account when it recommended the product it did. MAB explained 
at the time that this limited which lenders it could use, and it chose a lender that did 
provide mortgages on this basis.
The lender has confirmed that its application contained the question Are all names 
on the mortgage to be on the deeds?. And that this would need to have been 
answered no in order for the lender to have been aware that Mr A1 and Mr A2 
wanted a mortgage on a JBSP basis. So, Im satisfied this was information the lender 
asked for as part of the application process.
The mortgage offer in Feb 2022 includes the following supplementary condition: 9. It 
is understood that this transaction is to proceed on a borrower non-proprietor basis 
whereby [Mr A2] will alone be named on the Title Deeds of the property. If this is a 
residential mortgage, if [Mr A1] is going to live in the mortgaged property they must 
complete the occupancy form before completion and drawdown of funds.
This suggests that the JBSP element is part of the underwriting criteria. This 
condition wasnt included in either of the previous offers, which supports my 
conclusion that MAB didnt make the lender aware Mr A1 wouldnt be on the deeds in 
either application it completed for Mr A1 and Mr A2.
Mr A1 and Mr A2 have explained that this was identified by their solicitor ahead of 
completion, but that it did cause delays to the mortgage as the lender had to issue a new 
offer and so their mortgage formally began after their purchase. As the funds were transferred on goodwill basis by the lender, Im not aware of any direct financial loss caused 
by this mistake, but I have thought about what compensation is appropriate given the stress 
it caused.
Mr A1 and Mr A2 have described being under pressure from the vendor (the builders of the 
new home) to complete on time, and the worry caused by an issue with their mortgage offer. 
I accept this must have been very stressful finding out there was an issue with their 
mortgage offer so close to completion.
Putting things right
I think MAB should pay Mr A1 and Mr A2 a total of £300 compensation in recognition of the 
distress and inconvenience caused, as described above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Mortgage Advice Bureau Limited 
to pay Mr A1 and Mr A2 a total of £300 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A1 and Mr A2 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman