DRN-1545099
 
Complaint
Mrs A says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy for a secured loan.
What happened
Mrs A took out a PPI policy with a secured loan in 2003. Mrs A paid for the PPI with a 
regular monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off 
work because of an accident or illness.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs A went through a loan application over the phone. There was a section for PPI, which 
offered her the choice to take out a policy or turn it down. I can see the staff member went 
through the rest of the form with Mrs A in order to fill it out, so I think its most likely that the 
section for PPI was discussed too. Its recorded that Mrs A chose PPI. Mrs A was sent a 
copy of the loan application, and she signed it to confirm what was on it. She was also sent a 
confirmation document which set out which products shed chosen, one of which was PPI. 
Again, she signed this to confirm her choices. And she already had a mortgage with 
Nationwide which didnt have PPI, so she wouldve known she didnt necessarily have to 
take a policy to get her secured borrowing. Ive not seen any wider problems with 
Nationwides sales process from the time, nor any evidence which shows that they misled 
Mrs A here. From what I can see, Nationwide gave Mrs A the choice to buy PPI or turn it 
down, and she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls 
doing so after so many years.
Nationwide didnt give Mrs A tailored financial advice about buying PPI, so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. It did have to give Mrs A clear information about the PPI.
Its possible that the information Nationwide gave Mrs A about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs A chose to take out PPI, which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, Mrs A 
was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.While Mrs A had sick pay through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that and offered 
her more comprehensive cover, especially when her sick pay reduced to just a fraction of 
her normal pay. Its worth bearing in mind that the loan was secured against Mrs As 
property, and if she fell behind on the payments she couldve lost her home. So it looks like 
PPI couldve really been useful for her in protecting her home in case something went 
wrong. The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And 
the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs A could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out 
the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman