DRN-3660348
The complaint
Mr P complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proper affordability checks before it advanced his loans. 
What happened
Mr P took three loans between June 2021 and March 2022. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £250.00 18/06/2021 27/12/2021 35 £12.50
2 £300.00 30/09/2021 15/01/2022 35 £15.00
3 £300.00 28/03/2022 06/05/2022 35 £15.00
The weekly repayment column above is the cost per week per loan. So, where loans 
overlapped the cost will be greater. For example, when loans 1 and 2 were running at the 
same time Mr Ps weekly commitment was £27.50. 
Morses considered Mr Ps complaint and issued its final response letter. Morses investigated 
the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to provide these loans and 
so it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr P didnt agree with the outcome reached by Morses and his representative referred the 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman in July 2022. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt think any of the loans should 
have been granted. In the adjudicators view the portion of Mr Ps income that would have to 
be used to make the repayments was too high and therefore the loans were likely to be 
unsustainable for him. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation to uphold the complaint. Ive 
summarised its response below. 
The income for loan one was verified against the credit file so Morses says the 
information it obtained was accurate. 
The loans were issued after June 2019 which means Morses used figures from the 
Office of National Statistics (ONS) in order to pre-populate minimum amounts for 
expenditure. 
Mr Ps disposable income shouldnt be needed for existing commitments. 
Morses doesnt consider the proportion of Mr Ps income that would be needed to 
repay these loans was excessive. 
The relevant checks were completed before all the loans were approved.  
Mr P repaid loan 3 much earlier than it expected.
Mr P had a good repayment history. 
There was also a short break in lending of around two months between loans 2 and 
3. 
Mr P didnt tell Morses of any financial difficulties he may have been having. 
Neither Mr P or his representative provided any further comments following the adjudicators 
assessment. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mr P could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Morses checks could have taken into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ps income 
and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr P. These factors include:
Mr P having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr P having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr P coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr P.
Morses was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr P was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, in particular made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ps complaint.For loan one Mr P declared he had a weekly income of around £124.50 with outgoings of 
£51.76. This left around £72 per week to make his weekly repayment of £12.50. 
For loan two Mr P declared that his weekly income had decreased to £117.92 and his 
declared weekly expenditure was £61.80. Leaving just over £57 to a week to afford the 
combined loan repayments of £27.50 per week. 
Finally, for loan three, Mr Ps weekly declared income decreased again to £110 with his 
weekly outgoings increasing again to £69. This left around £41 per week disposable income 
to afford the repayment on this loan of £15. 
Morses says for loans 1 and 3 it also carried out an income verification check, which given 
my understanding of Morses processes were done through a credit reference agency. 
Although based on the spreadsheet provided by Morses there is no salary or benefits (such 
as a pension) recorded.
Whereas for loan 2, Morses has recorded that Mr P was in receipt of benefits and it saw 
some evidence of this. Its worth saying again that Morses hasnt provided the information 
that it saw or provided details of the type of benefit that was provided. Given, what has been 
recorded for loans 1 and 3, I think its highly likely, that during the course of this lending 
relationship Mr P was in receipt of some benefits. 
Considering the information Mr P provided about his income and expenditure, Morses may 
have felt, these loans were pounds and pence affordable because this is what the 
information showed. However, as Ive explained above, that is only part of what Morses had 
to consider before granting these loans. 
Before loan one was granted Morses also carried out a credit check and it has provided the 
results of that search. Morses was aware that there were no delinquent accounts or defaults 
recorded on Mr Ps credit file. He did have six active accounts but only four had balances on 
them. In total Mr P owed other creditors £563 and he was, at the time utilising 93% of his 
available credit. 
Although Mr P had a relativity low amount of debt, it is clear that he was making almost full 
use of his available credit. In my view, the results wouldnt have prompted Morses to have 
either carried out further checks or to have declined Mr Ps applications for credit. But this 
was information Morses needed to consider when deciding whether the loan repayments 
were sustainable for him. 
However, in saying that I dont think, given what Ive seen that Morses made a fair decision 
when it decided to lend these loans to Mr P. Im, therefore, upholding Mr Ps complaint in full. 
As Morses has pointed out in response to our adjudicator, Mr P was committed to spending 
10% of his income when loan one was advanced, 23% when loans one and two where 
outstanding and 13% for loan three. In my view these payments, in this case were too high 
when considering what it knew about Mr Ps circumstances. 
In these circumstances, there was a significant risk, in my view that Mr P wouldnt have been 
able to meet his existing commitments without having to borrow again. So, I think its unlikely 
Mr P wouldve been able to sustainably meet his repayments for these loans.  
I say this because Mr P was making a commitment to pay Morses for 35 weeks for each 
loan and I think its fair to say that Mr Ps income was modest and potentially made up solely of benefits. On top of that, the information Morses was given suggested that with each loan 
application Mr Ps income decreased. Which is concerning. 
While Morses doesnt think those percentages are excessive I think they were. There is 
clearly going to be a line beyond which it wouldnt have been reasonable for Morses to lend, 
but thats going to be particular to the circumstances of each individual complaint. And whilst 
a large proportion is going to increase the likelihood in any case that something has gone 
wrong there isnt an automatic cut off  well always look at the broader circumstances  as 
Ive done here. 
Im not suggesting that just because Mr P had a modest income which was likely made up 
from benefits that funds couldnt be lent to him but what Morses needed to do is appreciate 
that taking into account the commitments that he had to it and over the time period was in 
my view not sustainable.  
Ive considered what Morses says in response to the adjudicator, but I dont think these 
comments change my mind. As Ive said above, some checks were carried out which may 
have shown the loans were affordable, but Morses also had to consider whether the loans 
were sustainable and I dont think, in this case it did that. 
In addition, while I can see the two-month gap between loans two and three, I dont think that 
makes a difference to the outcome that Ive reached. I say this because, the information 
Morses was given as part of the application process did show, in my view that these loans 
were unlikely to be sustainable for him. 
Based on what Ive seen Im upholding Mr Ps complaint in full and Ive outlined below what 
Morses needed to do in order to put things right. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it not lent to Mr P, as Im satisfied it ought to have. Clearly there are a 
great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr P may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr P in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr P would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr P any of his loans.A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr 
P which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr P originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should pay Mr P the total of A plus B.
D. Morses should remove any adverse information you have recorded on Mr Ps credit 
file in relation to these loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint in full.  
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Mr P as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman