DRN-2309955
The complaint
Mr K says Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) was irresponsible to lend 
him money.
Mr K wants Satsuma to apologise and refund money to him.
What happened
Mr K took out four instalment loans with Satsuma between November 2014 and February 
2016.
Mr K says that Satsuma lent him money that he couldnt afford to repay. And that even 
though he struggled with his repayments, Satsuma lent him more money. Mr K says 
Satsuma didnt tell him what would happen if he couldnt repay the loans.
When Mr K complained to this service Satsuma hadnt finished its investigation in to his 
complaint. After Mr K brought his complaint, Satsuma made an offer for loans three and four 
but not loans one and two.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Ks complaint be upheld. As Satsuma had already 
offered to put things right for loans three and four, the adjudicator only considered loans one 
and two. He didnt think that it was unreasonable of Satsuma to agree loans one and two. 
Mr K doesnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. Mr K doesnt consider that its 
fair for Satsuma to uphold part of his complaint but still ask him to pay the outstanding 
balance on the loans.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. 
loans one and two
Satsuma has given us evidence that it asked Mr K for details of his income, housing costs, 
financial commitments and other outgoings before agreeing to lend each time. As well as 
this, Satsuma has told us that it included safeguards to reflect information gathered from 
credit searches.
Satsuma recorded Mr Ks monthly income to be £1,700 for loan one and £1,400 for loan two 
against declared expenses of between £820 and £870.
Even though Mr K took out loan two on the day he repaid loan one, it was early on in his 
borrowing relationship with Satsuma. The checks that Satsuma carried out didnt reveal 
anything of concern so I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to try and independently verify the 
information Mr K gave about his finances. 
Based on everything that Satsuma knew about Mr K, it appeared that he could afford to 
repay loans one and two. So, I dont think Satsuma was wrong to agree to lend to Mr K. This 
means that I dont require Satsuma to refund or write off any of the interest on loans one and 
two.
loans three and fourSatsuma upheld Mr Ks complaint about loans three and four. It offered to refund the interest 
that Mr K paid on loan three and write off the unpaid interest on loan four. Satsuma also said 
it would amend Mr Ks credit file. However, Mr K is unhappy that despite Satsuma upholding 
his complaint about these two loans, it still expects him to pay any outstanding balance.
I sympathise with Mr K, but he had the benefit of the money lent to him, so I dont consider 
its fair to require Satsuma to write off any outstanding capital balance on loan four. I also 
consider it reasonable that Satsuma apply the compensation to any outstanding amounts 
due on the loans. I would however remind Satsuma of its obligation to treat Mr K fairly and 
reasonably in any settlement negotiations.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I find the offer that 
Satsuma made is fair and reasonable. To put things right, Provident Personal Credit Limited 
(trading as Satsuma) should take the steps that it has agreed to do in in line with its offer. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman