DRN-3841946
The complaint
Mr L complains about the handling of a chargeback claim he made to PayrNet Limited, 
trading as Pockit.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr L, but I agree with the investigators opinion.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here, 
I have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
The chargeback scheme isnt administered by Pockit, its administered by Mastercard and 
they set the rules. Pockit didnt have to submit a chargeback claim but Id think it good practice for them to do so where the right exists and there is a prospect of success.
When Pockit submitted the claim, the merchant defended it and provided evidence that the 
clothing Mr L had ordered had been delivered. Ive seen a copy of that defence and its clear the merchant used the same delivery address as the one we have on file for Mr L. The merchant also included photographs of the parcel on the open door threshold of what they said was Mr Ls house. On that basis I dont think Pockit were wrong not to arbitrate the chargeback any further as there was compelling evidence the goods had been delivered and the transaction had therefore been completed.
Im not therefore asking Pockit to take any further action.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman