DRN-2120490
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos 
Financial Services (Argos) applied interest to a Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) plan that it hadnt 
kept him informed about.
What happened
Mr H entered into a credit card agreement with Argos in October 2018. He made a purchase 
on his BNPL account. On 8 February 2020 Argos called him to say his account was in 
arrears. Mr H says he had paid the amount due for the BNPL item in full in December and 
wasnt told at that time that there was interest that also needed to be paid. He says he 
wasnt notified by Argos that the BNPL plan was coming to an end as he should have been 
and that he hadnt received any communication from Argos for several months. He says 
Argos admitted that post had been returned and that correspondence had been blocked. 
Mr H says he hadnt changed address or done anything to cause the mail to be returned and 
as he wasnt informed of the deferred interest becoming due he shouldnt be liable for this.  
Argos says that Mr H made a purchase for £279.99 on his BNPL account. It says the BNPL 
plan ended on 26 November 2019 and as payment hadnt been received by that date 
deferred interest was applied. It says that a payment for £279.99 was received on 23 
December 2019 but by this time the interest had already been applied in line with its terms 
and conditions. It says that Mr Hs balance was now on a normal credit plan that attracts 
interest and that late payment charges were applied.
Regarding communication with Mr H, Argos says that mail was returned to it in August 2019 
at which time a block was placed on his account to prevent further statements being sent 
until it had confirmation that the address was correct. It says that it wouldnt have contacted 
Mr H by telephone until the account was in arrears. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Argos had tried to contact Mr H 
about his account, but mail was returned. He thought Argos had acted reasonably by placing 
a block on the correspondence following the returned mail. He noted Mr H had made the 
payment in December 2019 but said the interest had been applied in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Hs account and that Mr H was made aware of these terms when he 
entered the credit agreement with Argos.
Mr H didnt agree with out investigators view. He said that mistakes were made in the 
investigation of his complaint by this service. He said he was surprised to stop receiving 
correspondence from Argos as these had been sent in the first few months  even though he 
had no activity in those months - and then they stopped although nothing had changed. He 
said that Argos had an obligation to give him advance notice of his BNPL coming to an end 
and while Argos may have generated a letter it was aware he wouldnt receive this and then 
didnt take any action to contact him through another route. Given these issues he didnt 
accept that he should take full responsibility for the issue that arose.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is about the interest applied to Mr Hs account following the expiry of his BNPL 
plan. I understand that Mr H has raised other issues which are being considered separately. 
Having considered the relevant information, I agree with the conclusions reached by our 
investigator for these reasons:
Mr H entered into a credit agreement with Argos and made a purchase through a 
BNPL plan. The terms and conditions of the account set out how interest will be 
charged on BPNL items if the payment isnt made in full by the end of the BNPL 
period.
Mr Hs BNPL plan came to an end in November 2019. He didnt make the payment 
for the item until after this date. Therefore, I cannot say that Argos did anything 
wrong by applying the deferred interest to his account. As there was an outstanding 
balance on the account this then attracted interest which is in line with account terms 
and when payments were missed late payment charges were applied. 
Mr Hs complaint is that he wasnt made aware of the BNPL coming to an end. Mr H 
says that Argos had an obligation to inform him that the plan was expiring 30 days 
before the end date. Argos has said that mail was returned and so a block was place 
on correspondence to Mr H in August 2019. It is not clear why the mail was returned 
but as this happened, I find that Argos followed its policies by applying a block. It is 
reasonable that action will be taken to ensure statements arent being sent and not 
received by the correct person and so a block being place on correspondence until 
the address was confirmed is a reasonable course of action. However, this meant 
that the letters generated informing Mr H about the BNPL coming to an end didnt go 
to Mr H. 
Mr H was aware that he had an outstanding amount with Argos and so if he hadnt 
received statements for a period of time, he could have contacted Argos about this. I 
understand that Mr H says that Argos should have contacted him through another 
route, but it has explained this isnt its policy and so, while I appreciate this would 
have been helpful, I do not find I can say Argos was required to do this.  
As Mr H didnt receive the letter telling him his BNPL period was coming to an end I 
have considered whether he had enough information to be reasonably aware of the 
BNPL period. I have looked at the statements that Mr H received (before the block 
was applied). He would have received statements from November 2018 to June 2019 
all of which included the BNPL amount and end date. The statements show the 
deferred interest amount and say that this will be applied if the BNPL balance isnt 
cleared before the end date. Given this, I find that he should have been aware of 
when he needed to make the payment to avoid the deferred interest.
Mr H said that he wasnt told in December 2019 about the interest amount when he 
made his payment. I appreciate this was frustrating but given the payment was made 
after the BNPL period this information wouldnt have made any difference regarding 
the deferred interest being charged. I note Mr Hs comments saying that he wouldve 
paid the interest at that point had he been told. However, as I find Mr H had received 
information which meant he shouldve been aware of the BNPL period end and the 
application of deferred interest at that point, I find that had he been unsure if he had 
made his payment on time he could have asked this at the time.  Overall, while I can understand why Mr H is upset that he didnt receive notification of his 
BPNL coming to an end, I find that he was provided with enough information to have been 
aware of the payment date and amount. He was made aware of the deferred interest amount 
when he made the purchase and in the statements he received. Therefore, while I 
understand how the payment date was missed, I do not find that I can say Argos did 
anything wrong by applying the interest to Mr Hs account. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Home Retail Group Card 
Services Limited trading as Argos Financial Services.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman