DRN-2719920
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a claim he made under his 
motor insurance policy
What happened
The details of the case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in full again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
Mr H has made several complaints relating to this claim which are being dealt with under 
different references at this service.  This decision only relates to the fact AXA didnt inspect 
Mr Hs car, it sent an email to him explaining it wouldnt be able to defend the third party 
claim and it gave conflicting information about the damage to his car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
AXA has confirmed it didnt require an inspection of Mr Hs car at the time of the 
incident as no claim had been made by the third party. Given the circumstances of 
the accident and the initial report of no damage to either car, I dont think was an 
unreasonable decision for AXA to take at the time. 
As part of this claim an engineer reviewed the images of Mr Hs vehicle. He 
explained in an email as there was damage to Mr Hs car, he would be 
recommending the third parties claim should be paid  as AXA would be unlikely to 
be able to defend the claim should it go to court.  The email also went on to say if 
Mr H disputed this and other costs were then incurred, he would become liable for 
those extra costs. 
Having reviewed this email, I think it is factual in its content and not threatening as 
Mr H has suggested. It sets out the engineers thoughts and explains the potential 
consequences should Mr H choose to dispute the claim further. I think this was 
reasonable information to give to Mr H to make him aware of the position of the claim 
at that time. 
I can see that AXA has admitted it initially told the third party there was no damage to 
Mr Hs car only to change that position later. It also initially agreed with Mr H that 
there was no damage until and engineer reviewed the images of the car.  AXA has 
offered Mr H £100 compensation for the distress and confusion it caused Mr H.  I 
think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Given the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman