DRN-3566058
The complaint
Mr Vs complaint is about the way Crowdcube Capital Limited presented an investment
opportunity on its crowdfunding platform. He feels information about the company he
invested in was inaccurate and Crowdcube should have checked this.
What happened
Crowdcube is an investment-based crowdfunding platform that promotes investment
opportunities by way of pitches. Prospective investors can view information about an 
investee business and the details of the investment in these pitches on the platform before 
deciding whether to invest. In return for their investment they receive shares in the investee 
business.
Mr V made an investment in a food takeaway company, which I shall refer to as Company
A, via Crowdcubes crowdfunding platform in 2016. The pitch for the crowdfunding
campaign explained that:
We have 2 units in North London which together generated £1.05m of net turnover 
last year. We are currently raising equity finance to fund the next stages of our store 
roll out plan.
[]
We are looking to raise a minimum of £350,000 for a new store in East and/or West 
London and other exciting business improvements.
Company A went on to open two new stores before it launched another fundraising round 
through Crowdcubes platform in 2017. Company A contacted its investors in 2018 and 2019 
explaining that it had decided to pivot its business model away from branded high street 
stores to an online delivery model via dark kitchens. Company A then entered into a 
creditors voluntary liquidation, following a winding up resolution being passed by Company 
As members in May 2020.
As well as investing in 2016, Mr V invested during the 2017 fundraising round and initially 
raised a complaint to Crowdcube regarding that round only. Having referred that complaint to 
this Service, Mr V explained he also had concerns with the due diligence Crowdcube 
conducted during the initial raise in 2016 and so the two complaints have been dealt with 
separately under separate complaint references. 
Crowdcube explained to this Service that it conducted appropriate due diligence when 
verifying the investment opportunity and presenting the information to Mr V. It said that the 
2016 pitch indicated that Company A intended to use the funds to open stores, Company A 
had a track record of opening stores since it had incorporated and it did open up two new 
stores following the 2016 investment round. So it didnt think it had acted unfairly in the way 
in which it promoted the 2016 fundraising round. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Vs complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, she 
said:
Crowdcube needed to ensure the pitch was clear, fair and not misleading. This 
meant undertaking enough due diligence to satisfy itself on the essential information 
on which the pitch was based and ought to have done a basic plausibility check on 
Company As plans.
Shed seen evidence of the due diligence Crowdcube performed, which included a 
business plan, full financials and management notes. And these all gave details of 
Company As forecast, plans and assumptions for the proposed roll-out of its stores. 
It was sufficiently clear from the pitch what the raised funds were to be used for and 
that the plans for physical store acquisitions were still in their early stages.
Crowdcube sent updates to investors in 2016 which confirmed Company A hadnt 
already secured store locations at the time of the pitch. She wasnt aware that Mr V 
questioned these updates which persuaded her that Mr V invested with the 
knowledge that the plans were at an early stage.
She also noted that ultimately, Company A opened up two stores following the 
fundraise which was what the funds were intended for.  
Mr V didnt accept the investigators opinion but provided no reasoning. And so the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of promoting Company As investment opportunity, Crowdcube was authorised
and regulated by the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are
required to follow are set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance.
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in
whole or in part to every firm. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The
most relevant principles here are:
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly.
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
Crowdcube was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are:
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client.
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotionis 
fair, clear and not misleading.
So before approving Company As pitch, Crowdcube needed to satisfy itself that the
information contained within it was fair, clear and not misleading. And it also needed to be
satisfied that by approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in Company A,it would continue to be acting in its clients best interests.
In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading nature of the claims or assertions
made in the pitch, Crowdcube would need to carry out reasonable checks. What these
reasonable checks involve, or indeed what they might be in any given case, is something
which is very much left to each platform to determine and would vary according to the
particular circumstances. Its clear that it wasnt the regulators intention to provide a set of
tick boxes which needed to be completed for a promotion to be approved.
Ive also borne in mind that the FCA said the following in its July 2018 consultation paper on
loan-based (peer-to-peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms:
It is our view that it will be unlikely that a platform could argue that it has met its
obligations under Principle 2, Principle 6 (PRIN 2.1.1R) and the clients best interests
rule (COBS 2.1.1R), if it has not undertaken enough due diligence to satisfy itself on
the essential information on which any communication or promotion is based.
The FCA also said that:
In relation to statements about future commercial success, this should include at
least a basic plausibility check. For example, if a borrower says it is going to build a
block of flats within 6 months but it does not have the relevant construction
permissions, it would seem reasonable for a platform to question the plausibility of
the project.
Ive also considered the FCAs guidance on approving financial promotions from November
2019 which explained that firms should:
analyse, and carry out due diligence regarding, the substance of a promotion 
before approving its content for communication by an unauthorised person. The 
extent and substance of the analysis and diligence needed to be able confirm that a 
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading will vary from case-to-case and will 
depend on the form and content of the promotion. When assessing whether a 
promotion is fair, clear and not misleading, a firm may need to consider (among other 
things):
The authenticity of the proposition described in the relevant promotion.
Whilst I appreciate Mr V had invested prior to the publication of these consultation papers
and guidance, I still feel they are relevant as they provide clarity as to the interpretation and
application of the existing rules and guidance which were applicable to Crowdcube at the
time.
The FCAs website provides consumers with useful information on crowdfunding. This
includes a section on how consumers should protect themselves before investing and says
they should first understand what due diligence a platform preforms on investee companies.
Looking at Crowdcubes website, it makes it clear what due diligence it performs in its due
diligence charter. It explains:
The following due diligence is carried on each company before the pitch is open to
investment: []
fact check all statements and claims made in the pitch text to ensure it is fair, 
clear and not misleading by obtaining, where possible, independent 
evidence.
Taking into account the above, its clear that Crowdcubes due diligence needed to besufficient to satisfy itself on the essential information on which the promotion of Company A
was based. Crowdcube also needed to check that the claims made in the pitch were
authentic by way of a basic plausibility test. Further, Crowdcube needed to make Mr V aware 
of the extent of which it performed due diligence on Company A, let him know the outcome 
of this and for it to be sufficiently detailed to allow him to weigh up the risks and benefits of 
investing in Company A.
Mr V hasnt provided much detail regarding why hes unhappy with the 2016 promotion 
beyond the due diligence performed by Crowdcube and much of his complaint seems to 
stem from his complaint regarding the 2017 promotion. As the 2017 promotion has been 
dealt with separately, my decision will focus solely on the due diligence Crowdcube 
performed on the 2016 promotion. 
The 2016 promotion made it clear that Company A was looking to raise funds for a new 
store in East and/or West London other exciting business improvements. It didnt specify a 
location for these new stores and didnt confirm if one or two stores would be opened. 
Crowdcube has provided the due diligence which it performed prior to approving the 
promotion. This included Company As business plan, full financials, and management notes 
giving details of the companys forecast, plans and assumptions for the proposed roll-out of 
its stores. Having reviewed this documentation, Im satisfied that Crowdcube performed 
sufficient due diligence on the detail contained within the pitch. 
Whilst the pitch went into a lot of detail regarding the overall aim of Company A and its 
business plan, considering it all as a whole, I think its clear that the plans were at an early 
stage. Im also aware that investors, such as Mr V were provided with updates in 2016 from 
which explained that, having received the investment funds, Company A was starting its 
search for the new store to open. Ive not seen any evidence of Mr V raising any concerns 
regarding the store not already been secured prior to the fundraise and Ive not seen 
anything in the pitch which would suggest that this was the case at the time Mr V decided to 
invest.
Whilst I appreciate Mr V has raised concerns about the 2017 promotion, looking at the 2016 
one in isolation, I dont think Crowdcube acted unfairly and ultimately, the stores opened 
which was the purpose of this fundraising round.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman