DRN-3171595
The complaint
Ms F and Mr R complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined a travel delay benefit 
claim under their travel insurance. My references to UKI include its agents which includes its 
emergency service.  
What happened
Ms F and Mr R have travel insurance through a bank account. On 11 March 2020 Ms F and 
their young son were on a trip abroad to visit family. They were due to fly back to the UK on 
11 May 2020. However, on or about 18 March 2020 the airline cancelled the planned return 
flight due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The first available flight to the UK Ms F could get was 
on 16 June 2020 which she and her son took. The flight arrived at a different UK airport than 
the original planned flight and Mr R travelled several hours to collect his partner and son.
Ms F and her son were able to stay with family for the extended stay and didnt incur any 
additional flight costs as the airline transferred the flight.
While Ms F was abroad Mr R had spoken to UKI about the situation. Ms F and Mr R have 
clarified that their complaint is UKI told him they could apply for travel delay benefit but when 
they made the claim it was refused. UKI say the claim isnt covered by the policy terms.
Our investigator ultimately said UKI should pay the claim in line with the remaining policy 
terms, plus interest.
UKI disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. It said the claim didnt meet the policy 
terms for travel delay benefit as Ms F hadnt checked in for the delayed flight. UKI said that 
on a goodwill basis only it had generally paid the benefit where a policyholder hadnt 
checked in but had been stranded abroad due to Covid-19 if the policyholder had incurred 
additional non-recoverable accommodation and/or travel costs. Ms F hadnt incurred those 
additional costs.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules say insurers are required to deal with claims fairly and promptly. And they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
The policy says:
Delay Benefit
We will pay £10 per insured person after the first two hours and an additional £10 
every following four hours up to a limit of £250 if you have arrived at your point of 
departure or connection and your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train is delayed. You 
must have already checked in.
As Ms F knew the scheduled flight had been cancelled she didnt go to the airport and hadnt 
checked in, which was reasonable. But on a strict interpretation of the policy terms the claim 
isnt covered as she hadnt checked in. 
However, I also have to consider whether it was fair and reasonable for UKI to decline the 
claim and I dont think it was. UKI told us it generally pays the travel delay benefit outside of 
the strict policy terms when a policyholder incurs additional accommodation and/or travel 
costs when stranded abroad due to Covid-19. As Ms F didnt incur those costs it wont pay 
the benefit. I dont think thats a fair conclusion for UKI to reach. 
The travel delay payment is a benefit intended to compensate for the inconvenience of being 
delayed and the miscellaneous expenses associated with that delay, its not a payment to 
cover specific losses.
Ive listened to the call between UKI and Mr R. Mr R explained the original flight had been 
cancelled and UKI said he could claim travel delay benefit for Ms F and their son if there was 
evidence of the flight delay. UKI didnt say the benefit could be claimed only if they incurred 
additional accommodation and/or travel expenses. It told Mr R the benefit would help 
towards small expenses, which was in the context of Mr R saying he needed to send some 
money to Ms F as now shed stayed beyond her planned return date shed run out of money. 
So Mr R could reasonably understand UKI had confirmed that if there was evidence of the 
flight delay Ms F would get travel delay benefit. And its clear from the call that Ms F was 
inconvenienced by the flight delay and had expenses because of the delay.
Even if I was persuaded by UKIs argument that Ms F had to incur additional accommodation 
and/or travel costs to get the benefit in her circumstances I wouldnt think it fair for UKI to 
decline the claim. Ms F could have incurred substantial additional travel costs as to get the 
available flight home she had to fly to an airport about 200 miles away from her local airport 
shed been originally due to fly into. Mr R drove to collect Ms F and their son. But she could 
have chosen to take a taxi to get them home. Although those travel costs wouldnt have 
been covered by the policy, using UKIs argument it would have paid the travel delay benefit 
as shed incurred additional travel costs. I dont think thats a fair position for UKI to put Ms F 
in particularly as this is a benefit payment.  
Putting things right
I think the fair and reasonable outcome is that when Ms F and Mr R provide UKI with 
evidence of the original flight delay/cancellation UKI should pay the travel delay benefit as 
set out in the policy for Ms F and their son, plus interest as detailed below.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to pay the claim for travel delay 
benefit as set out in the policy once its received evidence of the original flight 
delay/cancellation from Ms F and Mr R. Interest* should be paid at 8% simple a year from 
the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
*If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Ms F and Mr R how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms Fand Mr R a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman