DRN-3690380
The complaint
Mr A complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to 
a personal pension.
Mr A is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading this decision Ill largely 
refer to representations as being made by Mr A.
What happened
Mr A had an OPS from a previous workplace pension. In January 1991 he transferred his 
benefits from the OPS scheme to a personal pension with Swiss Pioneer Life on the advice 
of Pioneer Mutual Insurance Company. The transfer value of Mr As benefits at the time was 
£15,436.48. Swiss Pioneer Life and Pioneer Mutual later became part of Phoenix, which also 
has responsibility for addressing this complaint. So, to keep things simple, Ill largely just 
refer to Phoenix in my decision.
In October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment Board, set up an 
industrywide review of certain types of advice that was given between 29 April 1988 and 
30 June 1994. It was generally known as the "Pension Review". It aimed to address 
concerns about the possible widespread mis-selling of Personal Pension Plans between 
these dates. Where mis-selling was identified, the regulator set out the method and 
assumptions that firms had to use to determine the level of any redress due. The review was 
intended to be a one-off exercise to put right any damage caused by poor advice.
In 1995 Phoenix wrote to Mr A saying that the sale of his pension in 1991 may have been 
one that needed to be looked into as part of the Pension Review. So, it asked him to provide 
some additional details. Mr A replied, providing the information Phoenix had asked for.
Phoenix wrote to Mr A again in August 1996 saying that, based on what hed said about his 
circumstances, it believed the transfer in 1991 wasnt one that it was required to review.
Mr A complained to Phoenix, via his representative, in January 2021. In summary he said 
that the advice hed been given by the Phoenix adviser to transfer from his OPS to a 
Phoenix personal pension was unsuitable. He said the value of the benefits hed be giving 
up, including the death benefits available through his OPS scheme, hadnt been made clear. 
He said he had very little capacity for loss as this pension was his only real retirement 
provision and he had a cautious attitude to risk. And he said the adviser hadnt made it clear 
that the new pension arrangement would have to perform very well just to match the benefits 
he was giving up.
Phoenix didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the information it had indicated that 
Mr A was self-employed as a financial adviser at the time of the advice, working as an 
appointed representative of Pioneer. And he had acted as the adviser in the transfer of his 
own benefits. So, it felt he was likely fully aware of the relevant information before he 
decided to transfer.
Mr A asked for his complaint to be reviewed by our service. His representative said Mr A had 
only been an adviser for a matter of weeks at the point the transfer was completed. So, they 
didnt agree that hed have had the relevant knowledge or qualifications. And they said Mr A 
was coerced into transferring by Phoenix and the representative still didnt think Phoenix had 
acted in Mr As best interests.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
acknowledged there wasnt much information available and so felt it wasnt unreasonable to 
think the transfer mayve been unsuitable. But as Mr A had acted as the adviser, she thought 
he wouldve likely been aware of the risks and potential losses. And she didnt think she 
could fairly conclude hed have acted differently.
Mr As representatives did not agree. They maintained that Mr A was not qualified to transact 
the transfer or in a position to make an informed decision and so felt Phoenix had not acted 
in his best interests.
Our Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
I asked Phoenix for some additional information before reaching a decision. In its response 
Phoenix provided a copy of a letter sent to Mr A by Swiss Life in December 1998. This 
showed that it had in fact carried out a Pension Review for Mr A in 1998, as part of the 
review process required by the regulator. The letter detailed its findings and said its review 
concluded that the transfer conformed to the regulatory rules at the time and had not caused 
Mr A a loss. It said the review had been carried out in line with the guidelines and 
requirements set by the regulator, so the business wasnt intending to take any further 
action. The letter also included a calculation demonstrating that no loss had occurred.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2022 explaining that I didnt intend to uphold Mr As 
complaint. Below are extracts from my provisional findings, explaining why.
The crux of Mr As complaint is that he was given bad advice by Phoenix to transfer his 
benefits from his OPS and that he is worse off as a result. However, the letter that Ive now 
been provided from December 1998 indicates this complaint has already been considered 
under the Pension Review, with an answer communicated to Mr A. The available information 
indicates this was done in line with how the regulator directed businesses to look at mis- 
selling under the Pension Review.
Mr A and his representatives didnt mention this advice having been reviewed as part of the 
Pension Review when bringing the complaint. But I dont think that is unreasonable. Given 
how long ago the review was carried out and the answer sent to Mr A, I think its reasonable 
he may have forgotten about receiving this letter as memories do fade. But as the issue has 
already been looked into, Ive thought about whether it would be fair or reasonable to do so 
again.
The regulator provided assumptions for firms to use when carrying out loss calculations. 
These assumptions attempted to predict future loss by determining things like future 
investment returns. At the time most pension providers got specialist agencies to do much of 
the reviews. And businesses carrying out the reviews were subject to internal and external 
quality checks by the regulator. So, Im satisfied on balance that the review was likely carried 
out correctly.
The Pension Review was designed to be a one-off process which was based on what the 
regulator at the time considered to be a fair methodology, using reasonable assumptions for 
future growth rates. Some of those assumptions, in particular relating to expected growth rates, havent come to realisation. But this isnt a reason to undertake the Pension Review 
once again. It was designed to provide finality to both parties, so that a business such as 
Phoenix was able to provide redress for instances of mis-selling, but also so that it knew that 
it wouldnt have additional unknown liabilities in the future. This was important for the stability 
of the industry and consumer confidence in financial services more generally. But it was also 
designed to reassure consumers such as Mr A.
The review letter also explained that if Mr A was unhappy with the outcome of the review he 
could raise a complaint with Phoenix (then Swiss Life). And details were provided of our 
predecessor the Personal Investment Authority Ombudsman if Mr A wished to complain.
I understand from the complaint now raised on Mr As behalf by his representative that he 
still has concerns about the transfer of his OPS. And he may have new or additional reasons 
for these concerns, which he has only thought about more recently. But ultimately these 
concerns relate to the transfer and related advice. And as the transfer has been reviewed as 
it was required to be by the regulator at the time there arent fair and reasonable grounds, in 
my view, to look at this matter again.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached my final decision.
Mr As representatives said that he did not recall receiving the letter and noted it was 
possible that it was not delivered. In addition, as this letter was not referred to in earlier 
submissions relating to the complaint, they questioned its authenticity and whether Mr A was 
in fact included in the review. They also noted that the letter itself was dated over a month 
after the redress calculation which they said required an explanation.
Phoenix said that the letter from December 1998 had been stored on a separate system 
which was why it hadnt come to light earlier. It noted a letter was sent to Mr A in February 
1998 confirming he was then being included in the review, having previously been excluded 
 a copy of which had been provided previously. So, it was satisfied a review had taken 
place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt unusual for further information to come to light in the course of an investigation of a 
complaint. While I agree it wouldve been better if the letter with the pension review outcome 
had been located sooner by Phoenix I think its explanation for why this didnt happen is 
reasonable. And I dont think there is good reason to doubt that the letter is genuine.
Mr As representative have questioned the gap between the date of the calculation and the 
date of the letter itself. But given the scale of the pension review I dont think a there being a 
lag between calculations being completed and communicated is unreasonable. 
Mr A has reiterated that he doesnt remember receiving the letter. But, as I explained 
previously, I wouldnt necessarily expect him to, given the time that has passed.
In situations like this, where information is incomplete and there is a dispute, I have to decide 
the balance of probabilities what I think is more likely than not to have happened. And based 
on the information available, while Ive taken on board what Mr A has said about the letter potentially not being delivered, I think it is more likely than not that the letter was sent 
correctly and delivered.
And, as the concerns that have now been raised about the advice to transfer his benefits 
were reviewed previously, as required by the regulator, I dont think there are fair or 
reasonable grounds to consider the same matter again. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman