DRN-4051717
The complaint
Mr P complains that he lost out financially when Citibank UK Limited failed to update 
information on its platform and this delayed a planned trade and resulted in his stock being 
sold at a reduced unit price. 
To put things right, Mr P wants compensation to reflect the difference in the sale price as 
well as the maximum award for distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Mr P held stocks in a company I will call F.
On 5 January 2023, Mr P emailed his relationship manager at Citibank with information 
about company F, saying that it had announced a decision to redomicile, with the result that 
its International Securities Identification Number (ISIN) would need to be updated. 
F said conversion of ordinary shares was likely to be restricted from 2 January 2023 until 
9 January 2023 when it was expected the ordinary shares in the company could trade under 
the new ISIN.
..
On 10 January 2023, Mr P attempted to sell his F security at a unit price of USD14.60. He 
was unable complete the sale on this date as Citibank had not updated the ISIN on its 
platform. 
When he was able to finalise the sale on 11 January 2023, the order was completed with a 
lower unit price of USD13.27.
Citibank didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. In brief summary, it said that:
it began the process to amend the ISIN on 9 January 2023, in line with Fs 
announcement that this was when the change would be made, and 
its turnaround time to update an ISIN is two working days and it completed this 
change within this timescale, which enabled Mr Ps transaction to be completed on 
11 January 2023, with the new ISIN reflecting in his portfolio the same day:
Mr P didn't feel this was enough to resolve his complaint so he came to us and one of our 
investigators looked into what happened.    
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint, mainly on the grounds that she couldnt say 
Citibank had been unfair when it had acted in line with its procedures and completed the 
change within its two day timescale.  
Mr P disagreed with our investigator. He mainly said (in brief summary) that:
hed provided Citibank with all the necessary information on 5 January and the ISIN 
should have been updated and ready for him to trade on 9 January
stocks in portfolios need to be available for selling as per market working hours and 
not subject to Citibank's procedures
its up to Citibank to be aware and take all necessary actions to have everything 
ready to enable customers to trade.
As the complaint hasn't been resolved, it comes to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Mr P  I can understand that whats happened has been frustrating for 
him. We provide an informal complaints handling service and this is reflected in the way Ive 
approached the complaint. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point or 
question raised because its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this 
case. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr P and Citibank and reach an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. And having 
thought about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the same 
overall conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this. 
Its my understanding that the crux of Mr Ps complaint is that Citibank is responsible for him 
not being able to place his trade on 10 January when he wanted to sell F stock at the quoted 
price hed seen. So this is the focus of my decision. 
Mr P said that it shouldnt have been up to him to tell Citibank about the new ISIN number 
and it was unreasonable that it took two days for Citibank to update its records. He also said 
hed given notice on 5 January in any event so Citibank should have been able to action his 
trade on 10 January.
The ISIN is used to facilitate the trading of securities transactions, especially across borders 
and following Fs announcement, its new ISIN needed to be in place before Mr P would be 
able to trade his F stock.
Citibank has sent me a screenshot from its records showing that it started the process to 
change the ISIN on 9 January and completed this on 11 January.
Whilst I can appreciate that Mr P is frustrated that Citibank didnt update the ISIN information 
sooner, I cant fairly say that Citibank made any error or that it should reasonably have taken 
action sooner because:
I cant comment on Citibanks business process that meant it would take up to two days 
to update the ISIN on its system. How businesses choose to operate, their internal 
processes and the services they offer are matters that come under the oversight of the 
regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
I can look at the service provided and Ive considered whether Citibank should 
reasonably have started process of updating records sooner. Im mindful that Citibank 
was aware that trade in F stock could resume on 9 January and that updating the ISIN 
would take up to two days to complete. Ive checked whether, if Citibank had started the 
process of updating the ISIN sooner, Mr P mightve been able to trade successfully on 
10 January 2023. But Citibank has told me that this process could not have started 
earlier as this was dependent also on its custodians and that the holdings came to Citibank from the custodians only after the live date of the new ISIN on 9 January 2023.
Ive also thought carefully about whether its reasonable to expect that Citibank ought 
fairly to have communicated better with Mr P about this. In his 5 January 2023 email 
Mr P said: Below is what (F) has announced and since I have it in my portfolio please 
confirm that everything is done so I can trade my stocks. Thanks and Regards. He 
hadnt however said he wanted to be able to trade on 10 January, so I dont think 
Citibank had any particular reason to think that it should have alerted him to the 
possibility that he might not be able to trade until 11 January. 
The ISIN update took place within the two days scheduled for this happen and Mr P was 
able to complete his planned trade the same day.
In order to uphold Mr Ps complaint I would have to be able to find that Citibank made an 
error or acted unfairly or unreasonably. After having taken into account everything that Mr P 
and Citibank have told me, I havent seen enough to show that Citibank did anything wrong 
or that it treated Mr P in a way that wasnt fair and reasonable. 
So I cant uphold this complaint. If I have not referred to every point Mr P has raised its because I have concentrated on what 
I consider to be the core issue that affects the outcome of his complaint. Nothing else hes 
said is a good enough reason for me to uphold his complaint. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr P but I hope that setting things out 
as I've done helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman