DRN-2421342
The complaint
Mr G complains that Cofunds limited failed to process his ISA transfer-in request promptly 
and that this caused him a financial loss. He and his wife made identical requests; while her 
transfer was completed by 9 December 2018, his dragged on till late February 2019.
What happened
 An investigator at this service felt that the main responsibility for the delays appeared to lie 
with a third party but that Cofunds could and should have done more to chase things up. As 
such, she felt it should pay Mr G £150 for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service.
She outlined at length the timeline of events, including the points at which she felt Cofunds 
out to have pursued the third party, particularly given the ever-increasing delays. Neither 
Cofunds nor Mr G disputed her timeline of events.
Cofunds, however, did not agree that it had done anything wrong, saying:
Its not part of our process to chase for transfer-in money  were not to know if the 
customer has decided not to go ahead with the transfer
Any action we had taken to chase for the money may not have proved to be 
successful
We will only chase cash transfers where this is specifically requested, and our 
system automatically closes open cash transfer cases after three weeks when we are 
only waiting for the money
This would make it particularly difficult to identify transfer cases where were still 
waiting on money and is why we waited for the money to come in  the onus is on 
the ceding provider to finalise their side of the transfer and take the affirmative action 
to send the money to us
If we receive money but need further information on the transaction, we would 
certainly chase at that point
While the investigator said we are partly responsible for the delays, there is no 
comment about what caused the delay with the ceding provider
Can this be provided?
It backdated the funds value by several weeks
We dont agree we were responsible for the delays
 
The investigator did not accept these arguments, saying:
As a complaint against the third party is likely, it is not appropriate to share any 
details or correspondence about this issue. This complaint concerns Cofunds alleged 
role in the delays and, in her view, it did play a part
It would have been prudent to ask Mr G if he was still going ahead
Cofunds acknowledges that Mrs G's transfer had completed and that it wanted to 
save as much time as possible, hence it chose to email and letters by first-class post
There was a pattern of not chasing throughout the process, even after Cofunds 
became aware Mr G was still proceeding
Overall, Cofunds had provided no evidence to suggest it acted urgently even after all 
the delays of which it had become aware
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. As such, I will not repeat 
her lengthy timescale, which doesnt appear to be in dispute, nor her detailed points as to 
when and why she felt Cofunds should have done more.
I acknowledge that it is not Cofunds policy to chase transfers-in although I think its 
argument that this is because customers might have changed their mind is dubious.
However, what became clear by January 2019 at the latest was that Mr G clearly wanted to 
complete the transfers and that there had been repeated holdups (arguably the fault of the 
third party). At this point I think Mr G was reasonably entitled to expect Cofunds to go 
beyond its narrow self-imposed requirements and treat him fairly; in this case, to proactively 
seek to get things resolved, particularly after it got no response from the recorded delivery 
letter. I have seen no evidence it did that.
I am therefore satisfied that it did not provide the standard of customer service reasonably 
expected by an incoming customer and should pay something in lieu of the undoubted 
trouble and inconvenience caused.
 Putting things right
 Cofunds must pay Mr G £150.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and instruct Cofunds Limited to pay £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman