DRN-3662623
Complaint
Mr and Mrs B has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected their claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr and Mrs B bought a solar panel system (the system) for their home in 2017. The 
purchase was funded by a loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts 
and omissions of the installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the 
installer misleading Mr and Mrs B into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which 
they werent.
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that the 
benefits of the panels were mis-represented to Mr and Mrs B, and that fair redress would be 
for the loan to be restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would 
provide over a ten-year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual 
performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Ikano didnt agree saying the sales documents made it clear the system would not be self-
funding, so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Mr and Mrs B say there were told that this system would be self-funding and they purchased 
the system on that basis. They say they were advised, that at most theyd have to contribute 
£50 a month towards the purchase for the first year only and the benefit would increase from 
then on making the system self-funding. Their testimony has been clear and consistent 
throughout. 
I understand Ikano believes that the sales documents from the time of sale indicate that it 
was made clear to Mr and Mrs B that the system would not be self-funding over the term of 
the loan. There are several documents submitted by both Ikano and Mr and Mrs B  
including a quotation order form, a variation of contract and two estimated returns document, 
one handwritten and one typed. They were also given a number of other documents such a 
document explaining how inflation could impact the costs of utilities with a significant amount 
of handwritten facts and figures. 
I can see that originally the sales meeting was conducted in August 2017. The quotation 
order document sets out that Mr and Mrs Bs system will produce 3,248 kWh annually and 
the first-year benefit is likely to be around £499. It also sets out the cash price of £8,995 on 
it.  
There is also a handwritten estimated returns document which further explains that Mr and 
Mrs Bs system could expect to produce 3,248 kWh annually, and the first-year benefit is 
£499 (but this was £717 with optional extras). There is a section for the installer to complete 
comparing the costs with the benefit, but this was not completed. This document is not dated 
 but Ikano believes this was likely given to Mr and Mrs B on the day of the sale as some of 
the figures presented on there, match those on the quotation order document. But to be 
clear, this document is not dated and also includes figures not on the quotation order form so 
Ive had to bear in mind that neither Ikano nor Mr and Mrs B can say for certain if/when the 
document was given to the consumers. 
A contract variation document was completed in early September 2017 following a technical 
survey. The variation document sets out a revised annual estimated benefit of 2,722.82 kWh 
(but 2,995 with solar edge). The maximum first year benefit was around £324.24 (£376.3 
with solar edge). This document was not signed by Mr and Mrs B  a signature has only 
been completed by the issuer.  
There is also a typed estimated returns document. This document is not signed or dated, 
and it doesnt contain the consumers details. It sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 2995 kWh annually, a maximum benefit of around £376.51 in the first year (but 
£576.31 with optional extras.) On this document, the section comparing the cost and benefit 
has been completed and notes a shortfall of £49.97 between cost and benefit. But there is a 
note below that says, the combination of all savings measures a return in investment in year 
1. 
Ikano believes the typed estimated returns document was given to Mr and Mrs B alongside 
the variation contract as it contains some of the same figures as the variation document. And 
it clearly shows a shortfall between the monthly benefit Mr and Mrs B will receive and their 
monthly costs. They add that the variation document and the typed estimated returns 
document supersedes the earlier agreement  and this clearly shows Mr and Mrs B that the 
benefits would not cover the costs associated with the loan as it set out a monthly shortfall of 
£49.97. But much like the handwritten estimated returns document, as the document isnt 
dated, neither Ikano nor Mr and Mrs B can say for certain if/when the document was given to 
the consumers. 
I note the credit agreement was signed during the original sales meeting in August 2017, 
and this sets out that Mr and Mrs B were taking out finance of £8,995 repayable over 10 
years, with monthly payments of £98.85. The total amount payable with interest was 
£11,873. It doesnt appear that the costs were revised following the technical survey, so the 
credit agreement remained unaltered. 
Ive thought carefully about Ikanos comments and appreciate it feels these documents made 
it clear that the system would not be self-funding. But I have to disagree. It looks to me like 
Mr and Mrs B were given a barrage of figures over several documents over at least two 
separate meetings. Given Mr and Mrs Bs lack of experience with generation figures, I think 
theyd need considerable help in understanding what these figures meant. And they say they 
were told that the system would be self-funding with a maximum contribution of £50 a month 
needed in the first year following installation. This appears to be supported by the typed and 
undated estimated returns that suggests a shortfall of £49.97 for the first year. 
I would add that, as explained by our investigator, the 20-year benefit figures on the both the 
estimated returns documents are significantly more than the estimated year one figures benefit multiplied by 20  indicating the annual benefits will increase after the first year. As 
Mr and Mrs B say they were told. 
There seems to be no explanation as to why the agreement was varied, and why the system 
was estimated to produce less energy than the installer initially set out during the sale  
when the credit agreement was signed and the sale agreed to. And I have to bear in mind, 
that the variation agreement doesnt appear to have been signed by Mr and Mrs B. So while 
they may have been told about the shortfall for the first year, Ive seen nothing to persuade 
me that they were given any of the other information on that document relied on by Ikano to 
show the system would not be self-funding following that first year. And I also have to bear in 
mind that the credit agreement and the order form had already been signed and agreed to 
by this time. 
I have considered the specific figures highlighted by Ikano, and if read in the manner set out 
by Ikano, they appear to suggest that the benefits provided by the system is significantly 
lower than the cost -  therefore the system would not be self-funding. But the documents, in 
my opinion, are not easy to navigate, and require significant examination and explanation to 
enable someone to reach that conclusion. 
I must have regard to the wider context in which those figures and documents were 
presented bearing in mind that Mr and Mrs B are not well versed in these sorts of sales or 
solar panels generation figures. So Ive thought about the following factors: 
Ive considered how that information was set out on the documents.
The number of documents given to the consumers.
The multiple meetings that occurred and the fact that its not entirely clear what 
information was given at which meeting. 
The number of figures set out for them on each document and overall
The fact that some of the most significant documents arent signed by Mr and Mrs B 
so its not clear if these were even discussed with the consumers or if the documents 
were simply given to them as part of the sales pack.
The timeline of events, and the fact that the document setting out the shortfall 
appears to have been produced after the purchase and credit agreement had already 
been agreed to. 
Overall, based on everything Ive seen, it seems to me that the information given to the 
consumers was extremely confusing at the very least. I think the documents likely reflect the 
nature of the discussions Mr and Mrs B had with the installer. And Im not satisfied that 
information was clear enough to enable them to understand that the benefits the system 
would likely produce would be less than the costs and therefore the system would not be 
self-funding. I therefore find Mr and Mrs Ns testimony to be reliable and accept that they 
were verbally told the system would be self-funding after a year  as the benefits would 
cover the cost of the system  and they bought the system on that basis.  
So, having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those 
explained by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr and Mrs B were not 
given clear information to demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and 
would equate to an additional cost for them.
So, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mr and Mrs B fairly and they lost out because of what Ikano 
did wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right for Mr and Mrs BHaving thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the 
original loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs B from 
the solar panels over a 10-year period so they pay no more than that, and they keep the 
solar panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs B are paying (or have paid) more than 
they should have, then Ikano needs to reimburse them accordingly. Should the calculation 
show that the misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should 
be shared with Mr and Mrs B by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure Mr and Mrs Bs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs B in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over a 10-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr and Mrs B have the following options as to 
how they would like their overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continues to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs B and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs B and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs B accepts my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept.
If Mr and Mrs B has settled the loan, Ikano should pay them the difference between what 
they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% 
interest.
If Mr and Mrs B has settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Ikano, and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs B paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs B receive their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs B paid each month with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs B receives their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs B the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they wouldve owed if the system had been self-fundingIm satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs B first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ikano Bank AB 
(publ) should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman