DRN-4498495
The complaint
Mr R complains that Origen Financial Services Limited trading as Origen Financial Services 
(Origen) gave him unsuitable advice. He thinks this has led to a financial loss.
Mr R is represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC). But Ill only 
refer to him in my decision.
What happened
In 2013, Mr R had a stakeholder pension plan worth around £30,000. He was referred to 
Origen by his stakeholder pension provider. Origen said this was because he wanted to 
explore his Open Market Options (OMO).
At the time of the advice, Mr Rs circumstances were as follows:
He was aged 55 and married.
He was unemployed. 
The household total income was £13,816 and the household total expenditure was 
£13,000. 
He owned his own home with a mortgage.
He had medical conditions which could reduce his life expectancy. 
He wanted to start generating income from his pension. And to release the maximum 
tax-free cash from it so that he could reduce his mortgage and other debts. 
Origen issued a Pre-retirement pack to Mr R in July 2013. This explained the scope of 
service it would provide him with. It said:
This report provides information covering conventional lifetime annuities and a brief overview 
of the alternatives which may be of interest to you. 
Should you wish to explore any of the alternatives to conventional lifetime annuities we will 
be pleased to offer you financial advice.
The Pre-retirement pack also covered the advantages and disadvantages of choosing 
escalation within any annuity purchase. It also included an options decision tree to help Mr R 
decide on the shape of any annuity he might want to buy. And to help establish whether an 
enhanced annuity could be purchased.
In August 2013, Origen issued its annuity options report to Mr R. This recommended that 
after hed taken his tax-free cash lump sum, he purchase the enhanced annuity with the best 
rates. 
The Annuity options report stated the following:
This review of your annuity options has been carried out specifically to provide you with 
advice regarding your pension income and no other financial matters. 
The report recorded that the fact find Mr R had completed had identified that his attitude to 
risk (ATR) was medium. The report then stated:
On further discussion, we agreed that the level of income needed to be secure and you did 
not want any volatility so we agreed that for this annuity recommendation we would consider 
your risk to be: low risk.
The report stated that Mr R had decided on the following structure for his annuity:
Joint life with 100% spouses pension.
Guaranteed fixed annuity. It was noted that Mr R should be aware that it would not 
keep pace with future levels of inflation. 
10-year guarantee.
The report went on to state that Mr R could consider a drawdown pension as a suitable 
alternative to buying an annuity. But that this option had been discounted for the following 
reasons:
The size of your fund is too small to make a drawdown pension a viable proposition
You require a guaranteed level of income
The risks involved in a drawdown pension are above your stated ATR
Furthermore, in relation to the annuity purchase itself, you confirmed that you simply want to 
get the maximum cash and income from your annuity. We agreed that we would therefore 
look at a Guaranteed Fixed annuity for the guaranteed and maximised annuity income that it 
provides. You also confirmed that you understood that it would not be protected against the 
effects of inflation. We discussed escalating annuities but we discounted this option due to 
the reduction in initial income and time taken for escalating annuity to return a total 
cumulative income equal to that of a Guaranteed Fixed annuity.
The report also confirmed that due to Mr Rs medical history, enhanced annuity rates had 
been offered and were reflected in the quotations the report contained. 
Mr R purchased the recommended annuity and it started in September 2013. However, in 
late 2022, he brought a complaint to Origen through his CMC as he thought itd failed to 
consider whether he might be eligible for an enhanced annuity. He also felt that Origen 
hadnt adequately assessed his ATR. He said that a flexi-access drawdown arrangement 
wouldve been more suited to his needs. 
Mr R also felt that Origen hadnt adequately explained the impact of inflation on his annuity 
income at the time of the advice. And felt that annuity rates had been low at the time of the 
advice. So it was poor advice to recommend an annuity purchase at such a time. 
Origen issued its final response to the complaint in January 2023. It didnt think itd done 
anything wrong. It said that at the time of the advice, itd used a system which researched 
the whole of the market to obtain the most competitive annuity rates. It said that Mr R wouldve been fully aware of this. And felt that this was why hed been referred to it by his 
pension provider. 
Origen said that enhanced annuities had been discussed with Mr R. And hed completed and 
signed a Medical Questionnaire, confirming that the information provided was accurate. Itd 
then researched enhanced annuities using the health details Mr R had provided. And the 
annuity Mr R had subsequently taken out was an enhanced annuity. 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service in May 2023. His CMC said that itd posted a new 
complaint about the suitability of the advice to Origen in March 2023. Origen said it didnt 
receive this. As our investigator had seen no evidence that the CMC had chased Origen for 
a response to the revised complaint, she gave Origen eight weeks from the time itd received 
the new complaint to respond to it. She also withdrew the initial complaint the CMC had 
referred to this service. 
Origen issued its final response to the new complaint in August 2023. It covered the 
following complaint points:
Mr R felt that the suitability of the recommended annuity wasnt adequately assessed 
by the adviser.
And that the benefits of a variable income hadnt been explained. Instead, he was 
merely presented with the drawbacks and benefits of a fixed income.
Mr R felt that his adviser had forced him into the binary options of either low or 
medium risk categories. He didnt think this was an adequate assessment of his 
appetite to risk versus reward.
Mr R felt that if hed been given suitable advice he wouldve invested in a standard 
investment whilst still taking an income under a flexi-access drawdown arrangement. 
Origen didnt agree that its advice was unsuitable. It said itd provided Mr R with advice to 
purchase the annuity with the highest income available on the open market. It also said that 
the August 2013 report had explained why the annuity option had been recommended 
instead of a flexi-access drawdown arrangement. And that the report had clearly explained 
why Mr Rs ATR had been assessed as it had. 
Our investigator first considered whether Mr Rs complaint was one this service had the 
power to consider. She felt that the complaint had been brought within the time limits which 
apply. She said she hadnt seen anything in the information provided which suggested that 
Mr R was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint over three 
years before it was made. She asked Origen to let us know if it disagreed. 
Our investigator then considered the merits of the complaint. She didnt think Origens advice 
was unsuitable. Or that itd done anything wrong. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator. He still felt that hed wanted a medium risk 
investment, but the adviser had persuaded him to go low risk. 
Origen responded to Mr Rs point. It said that hed wanted security of income at the time of 
the advice. And that whatever his ATR had been assessed at, the need for secure income 
wouldve driven a secure  that is, low risk - outcome. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first considered whether the complaint was bought to this service in time. In line with our 
investigator, Ive found no evidence which suggests that Mr R was aware, or ought 
reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint over three years before the 
complaint was made. And, as Origen hasnt disagreed, or provided further evidence on this 
point, I agree with our investigator that the complaint was brought in time and that we can 
investigate the merits of it.
However, having considered those merits, Im not going to uphold the complaint. I know my 
decision will disappoint Mr R. Ill explain my reasons for it.
I first considered whether Origen acted reasonably when it changed its assessment of Mr 
Rs ATR from medium to low and recommended he purchased an annuity. 
Was the ATR assessment reasonable?
Mr R felt hed wanted a medium risk investment, but the adviser had persuaded him to go 
low risk. 
Mr Rs objective was to generate an income from his pension. And to release the maximum 
tax-free cash from it. He was unemployed at the time of the advice. And his household 
income was only just greater than his expenditure. So I can understand why Mr R wanted to 
generate income at this time. 
I also understand that Mr R had debts and no savings at the time of the advice. So his 
capacity for loss was very low. 
The August 2013 annuity options report stated that the fact find had identified that Mr Rs 
ATR was medium, or Risk Level Three. This was defined as follows: 
I regard myself as having a balanced approach to risk. I am therefore prepared to accept the 
risk that the value of my benefits may vary up or down. I require a broad-based approach for 
medium to long term investment, including exposure to equity based funds investing in the 
UK and major overseas markets. I am therefore prepared to accept the risk that the value of 
my income may fall in return for potentially good medium to long term rewards. 
The report then said that the adviser had discussed this assessment with Mr R. And that 
they had agreed that because Mr R needed a secure level of income from his pension, and 
didnt want any volatility, they would consider his ATR to be low risk, or Risk Level One, for 
the purposes of the annuity recommendation Mr R had asked Origen to help him with. 
Risk Level One was defined as follows:
I prefer guaranteed benefits or benefits known in advance wherever possible. I accept that 
this may result in higher costs or lower return but consider this a price worth paying for 
additional financial security. For investment funds security of income is important to me and I 
accept that this may mean low rates of return and that I may not be protected from inflation.
While I can see that Mr R was originally assessed as a medium risk investor, I consider that 
Origen fairly amended that assessment, with Mr Rs agreement, because of his overriding 
objectives and his financial circumstances at the time of the advice. I say this because Mr R was unlikely to be able to tolerate investment risk  he had no other 
savings and his pension was therefore the only way of getting additional income at that time. 
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr R had any investment experience other than that hed 
gained from his existing pension investments.
Putting this another way, if the report had continued to assess Mr Rs ATR as medium after 
his financial circumstances and objectives had been taken into account, I wouldve 
questioned the quality of the advice. Therefore I cant fairly say that the adviser acted 
incorrectly here.
I next considered whether the advice to buy an annuity was suitable. Or whether it wouldve 
been more appropriate to recommend Mr R took out a flexi-access drawdown arrangement.
Should Mr R have been advised to take out an annuity?
Mr R felt that the suitability of an annuity wasnt adequately assessed by the adviser. And 
that the benefits of a variable income werent explained. 
Mr R also felt that annuity rates were low at the time of the advice. So it was poor advice to 
recommend an annuity purchase at that time. 
I first considered Mr Rs point about low annuity rates. From what Ive seen, I dont agree. I 
say this for a number of reasons. 
First, Im satisfied that given Mr Rs objectives, and his low capacity for loss, an annuity was 
a reasonable recommendation. Second, Origen had no way of knowing whether annuity 
rates would increase or decrease over time. But I consider that it provided Mr R with full 
information about the income he would receive if he decided to purchase an annuity. 
Therefore Mr R made his decision on what to do with his pension fund with full knowledge of 
what he would receive during his, and then his spouses, lifetime.
I also consider that Origen made it clear to Mr R that the decision to buy an annuity wouldnt 
be reversible and that it was possible that it would provide poor value. I say this because the 
cover letter for the July 2013 Pre-retirement report stated: 
Once you have purchased an annuity with your pension fund, in most cases you cannot 
change your decision and you could be stuck with a poor value annuity for the rest of your 
life.
I next considered Mr Rs point that if hed been given suitable advice, he wouldve taken 
income from a flexi-access drawdown arrangement. 
As our investigator noted, the Pre-retirement pack issued in July 2013 included some 
additional fact sheets outlining alternative products that Mr R couldve been interested in, but 
which carried a greater degree of investment risk than an annuity purchase. 
The pack also clearly explained how annuities worked, and listed the advantages and 
disadvantages of various choices Mr R would have to make about the structure of any 
annuity he went on to buy. The pack also contained a comparison list of different types of 
annuities and pension drawdown. It also stated: 
In our recent conversation we also discussed that you could consider a drawdown pension 
as a suitable alternative to buying an annuity. However, this route has subsequently been 
discounted for the following reasons:The size of your fund is too small to make a drawdown pension a viable proposition.
You require a guaranteed level of income.
The risks involved in a drawdown pension are above your stated attitude to risk.
Based on what I understand to have been Mr Rs circumstances at the time of the advice, I 
cant fairly say that Origen acted unreasonably here. From what Ive seen, the first two 
reasons the report listed for the drawdown option having been discounted were completely 
accurate. I think the third point couldve been worded better to reflect that Mr Rs ATR had 
been agreed as low risk given his objectives. But overall I dont consider that Origen did 
anything wrong when it ruled out using a drawdown arrangement. 
I agree with our investigator that Mr R wouldnt have been able to access a flexi-access 
drawdown arrangement in 2013 as they didnt yet exist. The similar alternatives that were 
available at the time of the advice carried various limitations and risks. This wouldve meant 
that it Mr R took a higher level of income in the early years of drawdown, his plan wouldve 
had to work that much harder to maintain its value.
I also agree with our investigator that although it may have been possible for Mr R to have 
received a higher level of income over time from a drawdown arrangement, depending on 
the limitations and risks noted earlier, Im not persuaded that he wouldve been comfortable 
with not knowing what pension income he might achieve.
Im satisfied that the reports Origen provided Mr R with in July and August 2013 show that it 
discussed Mr Rs various options, the risks they involved and the likely impact of inflation on 
a level annuity. Im of the view that the information Origen provided was enough for Mr R to 
understand the choice he was making. And I consider that he chose to buy an annuity 
because it was most important to him that he knew what income he would get from his 
pension. Therefore I dont consider that Origen did anything wrong when it advised him to 
take out an annuity.
I finally considered if Origen adequately explained the impact of inflation on the 
recommended annuity.
Did Origen explain the impact of inflation?
Mr R felt that Origen hadnt adequately explained the impact of inflation on his annuity 
income. 
The July 2013 Pre-retirement pack covered the advantages and disadvantages of choosing 
pension increases. It said that if escalation was chosen: 
the effects of inflation are offset, or offset up to a known percentage each year.
If the annuity is in payment for a lengthy period, the total income payments may exceed 
those of a non-escalating (level) annuity.
But that choosing an increasing pension would lead to the initial income from the annuity 
being lower than that of a level annuity. And that it would take some time before the total 
amount paid from an escalating annuity exceeded that from a level annuity.
Additionally, Mr R received a similar warning from an illustration from his personal pension 
provider on 26 July 2013:WARNING  this illustration has no cash in value at any time
Do not forget that inflation would reduce what you could buy in the future with the annuity 
shown.
Based on the evidence, Im satisfied that Origen did adequately explain the impact of 
inflation on Mr Rs annuity income. 
In summary, Im satisfied that Origen provided Mr R with suitable advice, based on his 
circumstances at that time. I say this because I consider that it discussed Mr Rs objectives 
in sufficient detail before it made its recommendation. I also consider that the evidence 
shows that Origen discussed and considered other ways for Mr R to meet his objectives. But 
that it fairly and reasonably discounted those options in favour of the guaranteed annuity it 
recommended given Mr R clearly didnt want any income volatility and had no capacity for 
loss. Therefore I cant fairly or reasonably uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman