DRN-3600300
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) blocked his account, called in 2 Bounce Back 
Loans he had received, and declined to release the balance of his account funds.
To put things right, Mr S wants Lloyds to release the funds in his account.
What happened
Mr S held business bank accounts with Lloyds for 2 sole trader businesses he operated. For 
ease of reference, Ill call these businesses A and T. He applied for Bounce Back Loans 
(BBLs) for each business: £35,000 for A in May 2020, and £50,000 for T in June 2020.
On 6 July 2020, Lloyds applied a block to Mr Ss accounts, while it carried out a review. The 
balance in Ts account was £27,916.96 and the balance in As account was £170,000. Mr S 
complained, but Lloyds retained the block. It said it was entitled to review its customers 
accounts, and had acted in line with its terms of business.
When Lloyds completed its review, it closed Mr Ss accounts, recalled the BBLs and used 
the funds in the accounts to repay the debt. When Lloyds wrote to Mr S to call in the BBLs, it 
said it believed some of the information Mr S provided in his application was incorrect, 
inaccurate or misleading.
Mr S sent Lloyds invoices to support the transactions on his accounts, and asked Lloyds to 
release the funds. But Lloyds declined to do so, so Mr S brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. He was satisfied Lloyds was entitled to close 
Mr Ss accounts effectively without notice, to call in the BBLs, and to use the funds in the 
account to pay off the BBLs. He said hed looked at the reasons why Lloyds had declined to 
release the account balances to Mr S, and said Lloyds had acted reasonably and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr S didnt agree, so he asked for an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of Mr S, I would need to be satisfied that Lloyds 
acted unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence Lloyds 
has provided to justify its actions, Im satisfied it acted in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it blocked Mr Ss account. And that it was entitled to do so under the 
account terms and conditions that governed the relationship between Lloyds and Mr S.
I appreciate Mr S is frustrated that Lloyds hasnt explained its reasons in full, and that he 
feels strongly about his complaint. But, under the terms and conditions of the account, 
Lloyds doesnt have to give a reason for doing so. So, I cant say it did anything wrong by not 
giving Mr S this information when he complained. And, having investigated Lloyds rationale 
myself, Im satisfied it was entitled to block the account and complete the investigation in the 
manner it did. And Ive seen no evidence to suggest it treated Mr S unfairly.
Bounce Back Loan
Lloyds made it clear that it would be recalling Mr Ss BBLs, and wrote to Mr S confirming as 
much on 7 September 2021. Lloyds offset the funds in the accounts against the BBL debt, 
and retained the remaining balance of just under £113,000. Mr S has provided our service 
with evidence he says shows hes entitled to that money, and Lloyds has explained to our 
service why it has rejected Mr Ss request to release the funds.
Firstly, the terms and conditions of the BBL set out the circumstances in which Lloyds can 
demand repayment of the loan, as well as the circumstances in which it can offset funds 
maintained in a current account against the outstanding balance. And Im satisfied Lloyds 
followed the correct procedure and acted in accordance with the terms of the BBLs when it 
called in the loans and offset the balance in the accounts against the debt due.
Again, I understand why Mr S wants to know the reasons behind Lloyds decision. But the 
terms of the BBL dont oblige it to tell Mr S. And, having thought about everything both 
parties have told me, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to compel Lloyds to undo its actions, 
or explain itself further.
As to the remaining funds, Ive also looked to see if Lloyds acted fairly in declining to release 
the same to Mr S. In circumstances such as this, before a bank releases funds to its 
customers it must first carry out checks to ensure its complying with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. Lloyds completed a review at this stage and gave Mr S the opportunity to submit 
evidence to support his claim that he was entitled to the funds in the accounts. 
Lloyds has explained to our service why it didnt release the funds to Mr S, and why it didnt 
accept his evidence. And, having looked at the evidence Mr S has submitted and the other 
evidence Lloyds reviewed, I accept its entitled to retain the funds in Mr Ss accounts, and I 
see no basis on which I could reasonably tell Lloyds to release the funds to Mr S.
Lloyds is under no obligation, whether contractual or otherwise, to disclose the reasons for 
its decision to Mr S. And Im not persuaded it would be appropriate for me to tell Lloyds to 
disclose the reasons for its decision.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
Lloyds decided to close Mr Ss accounts with notice, but as our investigator has pointed out, 
the accounts remained blocked during the notice period so the effect was that Mr Ss 
accounts were closed without notice. The terms and conditions of Mr Ss account do allow 
Lloyds to close accounts without notice in certain circumstances, so Ive checked to see if 
those circumstances were present in this case. Having done so, Im satisfied that they were, and that Lloyds acted in accordance with the terms of Mr Ss accounts when it closed them 
without notice.
I recognise my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr S. But, for the reasons Ive set 
out above, Im satisfied Lloyds has treated Mr S fairly, and so I wont be asking it to do 
anything to put matters right for Mr S.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman