DRN-3347694
The complaint
X complains that she did not give her consent to Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) 
upgrading her account to a fee-paying Flex Plus Account (FPA) in 2017.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
X says that she did not give any form of consent or agreement to upgrading her account to 
the FPA. X says she did not receive paper statements so had no way of knowing she was 
paying a monthly fee.
Nationwide says the account was upgraded online. It says X registered for online banking 
and gave consent to the upgrade through ticking boxes in its online application process. 
Nationwide says the FPA is an online account, and the application process makes it clear 
that all communication will be paperless.
Both parties are adamant about their positions. I dont doubt that X is giving her honest 
recollections. I can see that Nationwide has provided evidence of online activity.
I wasnt there when this account upgrade happened so I cant know what took place. 
Neither party is required to prove their position for me to find in their favour. I can only look at 
the evidence available today, which includes the testimony of both sides, and decide what I 
think is more likely than not to have occurred.
Ive taken note of Xs clear statement that she did not consent to the upgrade, and the fact 
that the FPA upgrade happened comparatively recently in 2017. I also accept her point that 
shes not in a position to provide technical proof that she didnt do the upgrade online.
But the type of evidence which Nationwide has provided showing Xs online registration and 
the subsequent request and consent to the FPA upgrade is consistent with that which this 
service has accepted on other cases. And this service has no evidence that Nationwide has 
been systemically providing misleading or incorrect evidence on such cases.
And to find in Xs favour, I would need to not accept Nationwides technical evidence and 
consider that some other party or Nationwide itself had Xs details, registered her online and 
did the upgrade, or that Nationwides online system did the upgrade spuriously, all of which I 
think is unlikely. 
So, unfortunately for X, after taking everything into account for the reasons Ive given above, 
I think its more likely than not that Xs memory is mistaken rather than the other possibilities. 
And, it would follow that I think she would have known about the FPA at the time of sale and 
that the FPA communication to her would be paperless.
I know X will be disappointed, but I think its more likely than not that Nationwide didnt do 
anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Xs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman