DRN-3494644
The complaint
Miss S complains about the valuation Advantage Insurance Company Limited offered for her 
car after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy. She wants it to pay her what she 
paid for her car. 
What happened
Miss Ss car was involved in an incident and deemed a total loss just four hours after she 
had bought it. Advantage offered her £15,210 in settlement of her claim. But Miss S thought 
it should pay her what she had bought the car for, £15,899, and reimburse her £200 for 
transport costs for a replacement car. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Advantage 
should increase its offer to £15,899, less any deductions, and pay Miss S the difference 
between this and its initial payment, with interest. But he thought it wasnt responsible for 
Miss Ss transport costs. 
Advantage didnt respond to the Investigators view, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to see whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Advantage said its offer to Miss S was the highest valuation provided by two trade guides we 
use. But our Investigator checked the trade guides and found that Advantages offer was the 
lowest in them. I can see that he checked the guides for cars of the same make, model, age, 
mileage and condition as Miss Ss car at the date of its loss. 
The valuations he found ranged between £15,210 and £16,823. There was a spread in the 
valuations, but not significant enough to discount the outliers. The average of these 
valuations was £15,943, and the median was £15,795. 
So Im satisfied that Advantages valuation wasnt fair or reasonable. I agree that a fairer and 
more reasonable valuation of Miss Ss car would be what she paid for it just four hours 
before its loss, £15,899. And so I think Advantage should pay Miss S a further £689.
Miss S has been without her money for some time, and so I think Advantage should 
reasonably add interest to this further payment.
Miss S said she had to pay £200 to have her replacement car delivered to her. But I cant 
reasonably ask Advantage to reimburse this amount as it was outside its control and it was 
Miss Ss decision to make this arrangement.
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss S £689 more in settlement of 
her claim, adding interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of 
the incident to the date of payment.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Advantage to take off tax from this interest. Advantage 
must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman