DRN-3323157
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) concerning a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs B are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In or around September 2014 Mr and Mrs B were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about buying a solar panel system (the system) to be installed 
at their home. After a visit from a representative of P, Mr and Mrs B decided to buy the 
system, and to finance it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In January 2019 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that P had cold-called Mr and Mrs B, and had made a 
number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true. And it said it 
was these misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs B to enter into the contract with 
P. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system was shown as £8,906.10 to mislead Mr and Mrs B, since 
when interest was added, the total cost was £17,388;
the system would be self-funding by virtue of the feed in tariff (FIT) payments and 
electricity savings; and
the system wouldnt cost Mr and Mrs B a penny.
In its final response to the complaint, Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree that the 
system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs B, or that there was any other reason for 
the claim to be upheld. But it offered to pay Mr and Mrs B £200 to apologise for the time it 
took to respond to their complaint.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She commented that P had given 
Mr and Mrs B three different estimates. Shawbrook was unable to provide a reason for this. 
It had told us it had contacted P to seek clarification, but no explanation had been provided. 
The investigator pointed out that the system was underperforming in comparison to all three 
estimates. She thought that Mr and Mrs B had been told that the system would be self-
funding, based on the higher performance figures shown in the quote. That amounted to a 
misrepresentation. And she thought it was this that had induced them to enter into the 
contract and that theyd suffered a financial loss as a result.
Shawbrook didnt agree with the investigators view. As an agreement couldnt be reached, 
the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes sections 56 and 75 of the Act. Section 75 provides 
protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs B paid for the system with a fixed-sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This allows Mr and Mrs B to claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs B and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party, which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive looked at these in detail, and have considered whether they support the alleged 
representations made by P.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process, and that it is therefore relevant, alongside Mr and 
Mrs Bs recollection of the sale, when considering if there were any untrue statements of 
fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest rate to be charged, 
the total charge for credit, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
Point of sale documentation
The documents P gave Mr and Mrs B at the point of sale included three different generation 
estimates. Ive summarised these in the table below.Date Document Generation 
estimate(s) 
kWhOptional 
extrasCost of 
systemYear 1 
income 
& 
savings
Undated Typed contract 
(unsigned)3,140.80 Hot water 
controller£8,906.10 £897.68
27.09.14 P personal quotation 
(unsigned)3,140.80 
3,266.43Hot water 
controller£8,906.10 £1,069.28
27.09.14 One-page 
handwritten contract 
(signed)2,889 None £8,906.10 £705.33
Shawbrook has asked P to provide clarification about the sales process to explain why 
Mr and Mrs B were given three different generation estimates. But P hasnt provided the 
clarification requested.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what I thinks most likely 
to have happened, based on the information I have.
Mr and Mrs B say that P told them their system would be self-funding, as the combined 
return from the FIT and the savings on their electricity bills would be enough to cover the 
cost of the system. As shown in the table above, the quote showed estimated first year 
income and savings of £1,069.28. That would have been nearly enough to cover Mr and 
Mrs Bs monthly repayments right from the first year. And by the twelfth year, it would have 
generated enough to cover the total amount payable under the credit agreement.
But the MCS certificate shows an estimated annual generation figure of 2,889 kWh  
significantly lower than that shown in the quote. And this matches the estimated generation 
shown in the handwritten contract. The handwritten contract, which Mr and Mrs B appear to 
have signed on the same day the quote was prepared, doesnt include a hot water controller, 
or any other optional extras. But the cost wasnt reduced to reflect this, or the fact that the 
estimated generation output was, in fact, significantly lower than shown in the quote. And 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs B were given an amended quote to reflect the 
lower estimated generation figure. 
The signed, handwritten contract shows an expected total first year return of £705.33. But it 
doesnt mention that total cost of £8,906.10 doesnt include interest on the loan. And theres 
no mention of the monthly loan repayments Mr and Mrs B would need to make. This means 
Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have been able to use this document to make an accurate 
comparison of the cost and benefit of the system. And I think Mr and Mrs B would have 
relied on the representations made to them by Ps salesperson that the cost of the system 
would be covered by the FIT payments and the savings theyd make on their energy bills. 
So in the absence of an amended quote, showing the lower expected generation figure 
alongside the details of the benefits of the system, I think the overall benefit of the system 
was misrepresented to Mr and Mrs B. And I think its likely that they were induced to enter 
into the contract on the basis of the higher generation and return estimates shown on the 
quote. 
As it is, the system has been performing at a lower rate than shown in the MCS certificate, 
and a significantly lower rate than either of the figures shown in the quote.Our role is to resolve individual disputes between consumers and businesses fairly, 
reasonably, quickly and informally. Determining fair compensation isnt always an exact 
science and its more difficult in a case like this, where solar panels have been installed at 
the property.
Ive thought about whether it would be fair to unwind the credit agreement, remove the solar 
panels and give Mr and Mrs B a refund of all the payments made (less any financial benefit 
gained from the installation of the solar panels). But I think it may be disproportionate to do 
this, given that the panels are working and generating green energy. And I think theres an 
alternative that would put Mr and Mrs B in a fair position.
I think that the fairest solution is to ensure that Mr and Mrs B dont suffer a financial loss as a 
result of having had the system installed. This means that the solar panel system needs to 
be cost-neutral over the 15-year loan term. In other words, Mr and Mrs Bs total outgoings 
(including the monthly loan repayments) should be equal to any income and savings that the 
panels generate.
Putting things right
To put things right Shawbrook should recalculate the loan so that Mr and Mrs B pay no more 
than the known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs B from the solar panels 
over the 15-year term of the loan. And Mr and Mrs B should be allowed to keep the solar 
panel system. This will put Mr and Mrs B in a cost-neutral position over the loan term, 
meaning that theyre not disadvantaged by the misrepresentation.
If the recalculated loan shows that Mr and Mrs B would have paid less each month than they 
have actually paid, Shawbrook should give Mr and Mrs B a choice between the following 
options as to how they would like the overpayments theyve made to be used:
(a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment, resulting in the loan finishing early,
(b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
(c) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs B and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early, or
(d) the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs B and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
Shawbrook should pay Mr and Mrs B simple interest at 8% per year on the amount of each 
overpayment from the date of the overpayment to the date of settlement.
Finally, Shawbrook should pay Mr and Mrs B the £200 compensation it offered them for its 
delay in responding to their complaint, if it hasnt already done so.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Shawbrook Bank Limited to put things 
right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman