DRN-3286352
The complaint
Ms S complains about how Citibank UK Limited dealt with her request to withdraw money 
from her account.
What happened
Ms S says she opened her Citibank account some years ago but left the United Kingdom 
(UK) keeping the account open. She says she returned to the UK in 2018 intending to use 
the account but was unable to do so. Ms S says she would like the account closed and her 
money returned to her and says she provided Citibank with evidence of the change of her 
name. She says a number of her e-mails were unanswered.
Citibank says it correctly blocked the account when it wasnt being used and when letters 
sent to Ms S were returned. It says there was a difference in Ms Ss name details and tried 
to call her about it, but she ended the call. Citibank accepts it didnt respond to Ms Ss 
correspondence and has apologised as well as offering £100 compensation.
Ms S brought her complaint to us and our investigator asked Citibank for further information 
about this complaint. Citibank hasnt provided any of that requested information or 
responded to the investigators view. The investigator upheld the complaint and thought Ms 
S had provided evidence of the very slight name change details as well as both her 
passports and a court order about the name change. The investigator didnt think Citibank 
had told Ms S or us what she needed to do to close the account and didnt think the 
compensation went far enough for at least two years of delays.
The investigator recommended Citibank pay Ms S a total of £250 compensation and also 
pay 8% simple interest per year from 2 September 2019 on the account balance. The 
investigator recommended Citibank clearly explain what information it needs to close the 
account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator and for similar 
reasons. Im satisfied that Citibank could and should have provided the requested 
information in this complaint and we can in those circumstances can only decide the 
outcome of this complaint based on the evidence we have.
I accept that Citibank would have been entitled to have blocked Ms Ss account in 
circumstances where she left the UK and no longer used the account. Im satisfied that 
Citibank has certain regulatory duties when an account isnt being used and as here, when 
correspondence is returned. Such blocks are designed to protect, as in this case Ms Ss 
money, and I think it her responsibility to have provided up to date addresses to Citibank.
There is no question here that Citibank didnt then deal appropriately with Ms S and I can 
see that it accepts that. I have no doubt Ms S was caused frustration and inconvenience in 
writing to Citibank and in not receiving a response. This was Ms Ss money and I appreciate 
that she wanted it returned. Im satisfied that Ms S has been trying for over two years to sort 
matters out which is a significant time period. I cant fairly say what the impact on her was in 
not receiving her money as Citibank hasnt told us how much is in the account. But I dont 
think the £100 compensation offer goes far enough for the reasons I have explained. I think 
Citibank should pay £250 in total which I think is fair and reasonable and fairly reflects the 
delay here.
The key issue is the account closure. I appreciate Ms S has changed her name very slightly. 
I dont think it clear why Citibank wouldnt accept a combination of two passports and a court 
order to update the account and allow it to be closed. It is difficult to see what else Ms S 
could provide and I think a certified copy of the documents is unlikely to provide better 
evidence than a court order. I dont think Citibank has told us or Ms S what she needs to 
provide, and I would hope that it is able to close the account now. And that it recognises how 
long this problem has gone on for, in Ms S in trying to obtain her own money.
Putting things right
Citibank should pay Ms S £250 compensation. It should also pay 8% simple interest per year 
on the balance from 2 September 2019 until the date of this decision. Citibank should 
explain in clear terms what Ms S needs to provide to close the account and review the 
evidence it has to decide if it can do so without further evidence.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Citibank UK Limited to pay Ms S 
£250 compensation and pay interest as set out. It should also provide clear instructions so 
that the account can be closed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman