DRN-1605341
 
The complaint
Mr C is upset by the way in which his insurers Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance PLC (RSA) 
settled his claim under his home insurance policy. 
Reference to RSA and Mr C also includes their agents where applicable.
What happened
Mr C was a victim of a burglary at his home address. The thieves stole documentation and 
boxes relating to high value jewellery. The jewellery itself wasnt stolen and Mr C contacted 
RSA to make a claim. 
RSA agreed with Mr C and settled the claim based on the difference between the value of 
the jewellery with documentation and boxes and that of similar jewellery without the 
documentation and boxes. RSA confirmed that the offer of £25,000 was in full and final 
settlement of the claim.
Following the payment (as well as a sum of £500 compensation for delay that had 
happened) Mr C contacted RSA as he felt that he didnt receive the full value of his jewellery, 
which he discovered as a result of obtaining new insurance quotes from another insurer. The 
other insurer required that each item of jewellery be specified on the policy. When Mr C 
realised that the valuation of the jewellery was reduced, he asked RSA to re-open the claim, 
but it refused. It said that the settlement had been on a full and final basis and had been put 
forward by Mr C or on his behalf, which RSA agreed to. RSA also confirmed that the 
settlement was legally binding. 
Mr C was unhappy about this and brought the complaint to the service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and found that RSA had acted fairly. He said 
that RSA had accepted that the jewellery was worth less without the boxes and 
documentation and allowed for a depreciation in value, which was outside of the policys 
terms and conditions. He recommended that RSAs offer of £25,000 for the loss of value and 
£500 compensation for the delay was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr C didnt agree with our investigator and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. 
I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr C, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
Like our investigator I must consider whether RSA acted fairly in dealing with Mr Cs claim. 
Having reviewed the evidence provided, I think it has. The main issues that Mr C is 
dissatisfied with are:  
The difference between the insured value (£50,000) and the amount paid to him. 
He felt that the offer made by RSA lacked transparency, as it withheld information from him 
to allow him to make an informed decision.

Difference in values
Both parties accepted that Mr C was paid £25,000 for the stolen boxes and documentation. 
The issue arises as to how RSA valued the boxes and documentation. From the evidence, I 
can see that RSA obtained valuations from a specialist jeweller. 
Mr C said that at the time the jewellery had been valued at £50,000 and so he felt that he 
ought to have received more and not £25,000 that he accepted. RSA said it considered 
representations from Mr C and agreed with Mr C that a fair settlement would be to place a 
value on the stolen boxes and documentation. 
It accepted that jewellery without the documents would be worth less than jewellery that had 
all those items.  So, although Mr Cs policy didnt specifically cover for a reduced value of the 
jewellery (due to the missing boxes and certificates) RSA accepted his representations. 
From the evidence, I have seen that RSA had initially had in mind an offer of around £32,000 
on the basis that Mr C surrender the old jewellery as salvage. From the evidence, it seems 
that the agreement to accept the £25,000 had taken place between RSA and the loss 
adjuster appointed by Mr C, who had authority to act for him. So, when it offered the full and 
final cash settlement, Mr C accepted it. 
So, taking all these points into consideration, I am satisfied that RSA did act fairly when 
assessing the difference in value; not least because it paid £25,000 outside of the policys 
terms and conditions. But also, because it acted on the representations put forward by Mr C 
or Mr Cs broker.  
Transparency
I have been provided with the full business file and I have looked at the chronology of what 
happened to assess whether RSA had been transparent in its dealings with Mr C.  Having 
reviewed what I have seen, I think it has and Ill explain why. 
In April 2018 Mr C claimed for the full contents but excluded at the time the items of jewellery 
relating to this complaint. In early May 2018, RSA paid out on the contents as claimed and it 
was at this point that discussions started regarding the jewellery. 
From the evidence, RSA werent going to pay out for the jewellery but entered negotiations 
with Mr C regarding the valuations of the jewellery. In early July 2018 RSA requested that Mr 
C send the jewellery to the specialist jewellers workshop for a valuation to take place. Mr C 
refused to do this.
RSA then offered to carry out an inspection of the jewellery with Mr Cs loss adjuster being 
present. In early October 2018, Mr C loss adjuster agreed with RSA on the general contents 
and other valuables but noted that the valuation of the jewellery was still outstanding. 
Around 2 weeks later that valuation came in and Mr Cs loss adjuster was told about it. 
Further negotiations took place between Mr Cs loss adjuster and RSA until RSA agreed with 
Mr Cs loss adjuster and authorised the payment of £25,000 for the missing boxes and 
documentation. So, I dont think RSAs efforts lacked transparency as Mr Cs representative had been party to the discussions surrounding the jewellery prior to the offer being made. Mr 
Cs broker (on behalf of Mr C) accepted the offer including the additional compensation 
amount of £500. So, I dont think that RSA was unfair in its dealings with Mr C. 
I have next considered whether RSA were aware of how future insurers could assess the 
risk. From the evidence, I can see that when Mr C was insured with RSA, he didnt need to 
specify each item of jewellery for cover as a policy limit was in place that exceeded the 
valuation of the jewellery. Mr C decided, as was his choice, to change insurers.
Those insurers applied different criteria and said that each item would now have to be 
specified. It was at this point that Mr C realised that if he were to make a claim for the total 
loss, he might receive a lower value for the jewellery itself, excluding the documentation and 
the boxes. 
I can see that Mr C has said that RSA and the other insurers his broker were considering, 
were all under the same corporate group and so RSA lacked transparency. RSA has 
confirmed that it is a separate entity to the other insurers albeit, it is in the same business 
group and it wouldnt know how another insurer underwrites policies. So, I think its 
reasonable that it wouldnt be party to how another insurer would assess risk. 
Mr C accepted the settlement. I can see that the offer from RSA took into consideration, 
other costs that could be associated with the sale of the items. I also accept that Mr Cs 
broker was involved at an early stage in the entire process and it would be reasonable to 
assume that Mr Cs broker wouldve passed all the information onto him. So, I dont think 
RSA has acted unreasonably with the offer it made. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman