DRN-3699833
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy Nationwide Building Society will not refund him for a purchase he paid for 
using his credit card.
What happened
Mr N paid for a course of cosmetic treatment on his Nationwide credit card. It was 
scheduled for 6 sessions in total. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic the course of 
treatment was disrupted and the time period between treatment 3 and 4 was longer than 
originally planned.
Mr N eventually completed the course of treatment which also included a free extra 
session due to the previous disruption. However, Mr N is unhappy with the results he 
achieved. In summary he says that because the treatments were not spaced as originally 
planned the results are unsatisfactory. Mr N says he has not experienced the 90-95% 
permanent hair reduction he was led to believe he would achieve and would like a 
refund.
Mr N raised the matter with Nationwides disputes team. It considered the matter under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75), however, it declined to refund 
him. In summary, it says the supplier is willing to inspect the results with a view to 
providing a resolution if there has been an error on its part and as Mr N doesnt want to 
do this it cannot uphold his Section 75 claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint which Mr N referred to this service. In 
summary, she didnt think there had clearly been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier.
Mr N does not agree and asked for the matter to be looked at again. In summary, he 
accepts the consent form he signed says results can vary but says he was not given the 
chance for the treatments to be effective as the interval of these was disrupted.
On 15 July 2022 I issued a non-uphold provisional decision on this matter as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N also complained about some general customer service issues with Nationwide. It 
paid Mr N compensation for the customer service issues which he appears to have 
accepted and those specific complaint points seem resolved. The matter he referred to 
this service was about the outcome of his claim regarding the dispute with the supplier, 
so (unless told to the contrary) I will be focusing on that.
Section 75
Mr N used a credit card to pay for the treatment which means that Section 75 is 
relevant to this case. Section 75 allows Mr N to hold Nationwide responsible for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation in respect of the treatment purchased using 
the credit afforded here. 
However, there are certain technical criteria which have to be met for a Section 75 
claim to be valid. These criteria relate to the cost of the goods or services, the parties 
to the transaction, or the way the payment was made. I believe the criteria for a valid 
Section 75 claim are in place  so I have gone on to consider if the supplier breached 
its contract or misrepresented things.
I am satisfied it was the Covid-19 pandemic which prevented the supplier from offering 
Mr N the fourth session as scheduled in April 2020. I also note the parties then agreed 
what would happen going forward, namely that the sessions would continue from July 
2020 to conclusion and include a free additional treatment to make up for the disruption 
to the previously agreed schedule.
From what I can see Mr Ns current position appears to be that some other approach 
to the disrupted schedule would have been preferable, and what the supplier did in 
continuing the treatment was in effect a fruitless exercise that led to poor results.
The contractual information I have between the supplier and Mr N is limited. And in any 
event it appears unlikely to deal with the disruption caused by this unprecedented 
situation. So in considering whether there has been a breach of contract I have turned 
to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 which implies into a contract such as this a term that 
the contract will be performed with reasonable care and skill.
Essentially, I am assessing whether the suppliers actions in continuing the treatment 
(and adding an extra session) following an unplanned delay would be considered a 
lack of reasonable skill and care as defined by the relevant law.
What is considered reasonable care and skill is not focused on the results achieved but 
the manner in which the service was carried out. There is no specific definition to assist 
me with what would be reasonable or unreasonable and the matter is made particularly 
challenging when considering the complexity and variables around cosmetic 
treatments.
According to the original plan for the timings of treatments the fourth session was meant 
to happen up to three months after the third. However, it happened five months after as 
a result of the pandemic. While I know that Mr N has indicated the timings of the 
treatments were crucial  the information he has provided from the supplier about that is 
not clear cut in respect of the impact of particular delays. Information I have found online 
does indicate that the timing of this type of treatment is important but it is still unclear to 
me if a 2-month delay for a fourth session would be so significant as to make the course 
of treatment essentially set up to fail. And whether or not in continuing the treatment 
(and adding an additional session) the supplier fell below what would be considered the 
standard of reasonable skill and care in that particular industry.
I know Mr N has told us what happened and also sent in pictures. However, without 
further persuasive evidence, such as an expert report it is difficult for me to say that the 
supplier has likely fallen below the required standard here. Because of the complexity 
around treatments of this nature coupled with what was a relatively short delay to the 
planned schedule (and the addition of an extra treatment) it isnt in my view such a 
clear-cut situation that a non- expert could conclude this based on the evidence that is 
available. This is complicated further by the fact that an area was not treated during 
some sessions  for reasons which appear not to be the fault of the supplier.I note the supplier has offered to look at Mr Ns results and assess these with a view to 
potentially remedying any errors it finds. This seems like a reasonable way forward. And 
while Mr N says he doesnt want to do this particularly as he doesnt live as close to the 
clinic anymore  I think it is fair to take this into account when considering what 
Nationwide should be liable for here. Had Mr N taken up this offer it might be clearer 
whether the supplier had acted without reasonable care and skill. It is also worth noting 
that even if I was satisfied there had been a breach of contract here, a fair remedy in 
these circumstances might not be a refund but repeat performance.
Because of what Mr N has said about what the supplier led him to believe I have 
also considered whether the information he was given at the time of sale would 
allow me to conclude there was likely some kind of breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. Mr N indicates he was told he would get 90-95% success. He 
also points to a reference on the website that says permanent results.
From looking at the limited contractual documents I have I dont see specific promises 
around the percentage success rate. I note he signed a consent form which specifically 
and fairly clearly states that results would vary from patient to patient and no 
guarantees were provided. I do note Mr N says there are other documents he was 
shown which promised 90- 95% success  but based on what I have seen it is difficult 
for me to say there has been some kind of breach or misrepresentation in relation to 
this. Particularly in light of what Mr N signed  which would appear to be the type of 
thing you might expect with most treatments of this nature.
I also note Mr N has pointed to a reference on the suppliers website regarding the 
results that might be achieved  but I think this in isolation is too ambiguous here to 
constitute a false statement of fact. And when taken in light of what he consented to I 
think there are reasonably clear qualifiers elsewhere.
Furthermore, even if I were satisfied that the supplier gave Mr N specific assurances 
around the results, without further persuasive (likely expert) evidence it is difficult for 
me to say how successful his results have been in any event.
Chargeback
I have considered if a chargeback would have been a fair route for Nationwide to go 
down. A chargeback is a way that money paid on a card might be recovered but it is 
subject to the strict rules of the card scheme.
It appears Nationwide considered a chargeback and then decided there was 
not a valid claim. It isnt clear why this is but in any event I consider that any 
chargeback attempt was likely to have been out of time based on when Mr N 
approached Nationwide to raise his dispute. And even if it was not out of 
time, based on the circumstances here I cant fairly conclude it would likely 
have succeeded in any event. So all in all I dont consider Nationwide to 
have made a mistake by not pursuing a chargeback here.
In conclusion, I am sorry to hear about Mr Ns disappointment with his course of 
treatment. However, when considering Nationwides liability for what has happened I 
need to consider the particular criteria around Section 75. And in this case I am unable 
to fairly conclude that there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier here. I also dont think Nationwide made a mistake by not raising a 
chargeback. So overall I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct Nationwide 
to pay Mr N the refund he wants.I asked the parties for their comments on my decision. 
Nationwide did not have anything more to add. Mr N has not responded to date.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not received anything that would cause me to reconsider the findings in my 
provisional decision. I still consider these fair and reasonable for those reasons already 
outlined and set out above.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2022.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman