DRN-2926373
The complaint
Mrs and Mr P are unhappy with how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) managed 
their ongoing business relationship.
What happened
Mrs and Mr P (The Partnership) invested in 11 buy-to-let properties with a combined value 
of approximately £1.5 million. NatWest helped finance these properties by lending against 
each property with a separate loan.
 
The partnership never missed or were late with a loan payment. However, in November 
2010, NatWest wrote to the partnership saying that one of the loans had expired and was in 
default and that this meant that all the other loans were also now in default. 
 
NatWest later wrote to the partnership and advised that as the terms of the lending 
previously agreed no longer met its current criteria, it was no longer willing to renew the 
borrowing on the same terms, and that the partnerships ongoing relationship was to be 
transferred to the management of the Global Restructuring Group ("GRG"). 
NatWest advised that the reason for this transfer was that the Loan-to-Value ("LTV") ratio 
had exceeded the limits of what they were comfortable with, that the loan facilities had 
expired, and that there was no clear strategy for repayment of the outstanding borrowing.
 
In April 2011, all the loans were consolidated into one. As a result of the restructuring of the 
portfolio, the partnership paid fees that it feels were unreasonable and properties were then 
sold at prices below those that were fair - because the property sales occurred in the period 
immediately following the financial crisis when markets were unfavourable. The full 
outstanding debt was paid, and the accounts closed, in April 2012.
In October 2018, the partnership raised a complaint against NatWest. NatWest looked at the 
partnerships complaint, but they were satisfied that they hadnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably toward the partnership and so didnt uphold the complaint.
The partnership wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so it referred its complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that NatWest 
hadnt acted unfairly or unreasonably toward the partnership, given the nature of what had 
taken place, so they also didnt uphold the complaint.
The partnership remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The partnership has stated that NatWest defaulted one of the loans, which in turn caused all 
the other loans to default, despite that no payments were ever late or missed on the loan in 
question.
However, while it may have been the case that the partnership didnt miss any payments 
during the term of the loan, its evident that the particular 24 month loan in question here had 
expired in September 2010 - at which time the loan hadnt been repaid as agreed and at 
which time there was no immediate plan for its repayment.
 
It's also evident from the loan agreements that the agreements for all the properties refer to 
the standard loan terms and conditions, and that these standard loan terms include a cross 
default clause. And the loan agreement for the 24 month loan in question also states that 
non-repayment at the time of loan expiry constitutes a default and that this, because of the 
cross default clause, would trigger a default on all the other loans.
 
As such, I dont feel that I can reasonably conclude that the bank acted unfairly either by 
considering the loan in question, or all the other property loans, as being in default. Indeed, 
I'm satisfied that the bank accurately applied the terms of the loans in this instance.
The partnership has also stated that it feels that the transfer of the ongoing relationship to 
GRG was unjustified. Having reviewed the information available to me its evident that, 
following the expiry of the loan in September 2010, the bank agreed to extend the loan until 
December 2010.
It appears that it was  at the end of this extended period, in December 2010, that NatWest 
made the decision to transfer the continuing relationship to GRG, and the reasons provided 
by NatWest for this was because the LTV ratio was thought to have reached 100%, which 
was well in excess of the banks policy limits, and because it was also the opinion of the bank 
that there was no clear strategy for the repayment of the outstanding borrowing at that time.
 
It's up to a business to decide how it will manage an ongoing relationship. What would be 
expected by this service would be that any decisions a business makes in this regard dont 
lead to an unfair outcome and are communicated clearly to its customer. 
In this instance, considering the circumstances as described previously, I don't feel that it 
was unreasonable for NatWest to have concluded that the transfer to GRG was the best 
course of action in this instance and it follows from this that I dont feel that the transfer led to 
an unfair outcome. Additionally, I note that the bank sent clear communication to the 
partnership that they were preparing to transfer the ongoing relationship to GRG and sent 
further communication to the partnership after the transfer, confirming it had taken place.
The partnership also contend that they offered to sell a minimum of two properties to reduce 
the outstanding balance of the borrowing but that this option was refused by NatWest.
This complaint point stems from a disagreement between the partnership and NatWest with 
regard how to realise the value of the property assets following the loans going into default in 
November 2010. 
NatWest wanted to consolidate all the loans into one single loan and market all the 
properties for sale to clear the outstanding borrowing. The partnership didnt agree with the 
loan consolidation and sale of all properties and wanted to maintain the already existing 
series of individual loans and sell properties on a staggered basis over several years to 
reduce the overall level of borrowing.
 In February 2011, the partnership's representatives asked NatWest for a redemption figure 
to pay one of the loans following the sale of the relevant property. The bank declined to 
provide this figure and reiterated that it wanted the entire portfolio consolidated and 
refinanced and that all properties should be put up for sale. In response to the partnership's 
proposal, NatWest stated:
 
Your proposal suggests the refinance of four properties would leave a debt liability of
£365,000 with an annual debt servicing costs of £34,910, while base rate remains 
0.5%, an increase of 1% would cost an additional £3,650. 
The gross rental income would be £37,740, which is insufficient to cover debt service 
costs with enough comfort to allow your portfolio to be passed back to the main part 
of the bank. On this basis your proposal Is not presently an acceptable way forward.
 
NatWest also stated:
 
Our aim is to agree a strategy with you that will address problems and/or facilitate a 
return back within the Banks normal lending criteria based on your proposal a 
refinance of individual properties will not facilitate a return back within the Banks 
normal lending criteria.
 
This illustrates that NatWest felt that selling the properties on a staggered basis over several 
years would expose it to an unacceptable level of risk that the loans wouldnt be fully repaid. 
Because of this NatWest decided that the best way to ensure that it recovered its financial 
outlay was that the properties should all be put up for sale together. 
And, while I can appreciate that the partnership may not have agreed with the NatWests 
decision here, given that the properties were charged to the bank as security for its financial 
outlay, I can only conclude that this was a commercial decision that NatWest were entitled to 
make.
 
This means that I dont feel that it was unfair or unreasonable that NatWest insisted that all 
the properties be marketed for sale given that this was the course of action that they deemed 
most appropriate. What this service would expect of NatWest here would be that they clearly 
communicated their intent and their reasoning to the partnership. And, having reviewed the 
relevant correspondence, I'm satisfied that the bank did this.
The partnership also state that NatWest forced them to sell properties at prices that weren't 
fair. Ive already stated that Im satisfied that NatWests insistence on placing all the 
properties for sale wasnt unfair, but I believe that this complaint point may refer specifically 
to the sale of three specific properties. 
It appears from the information available to me that plans were already in place to sell these 
three properties before the partnership was told by NatWest in November 2010 that one of 
the loans had expired and that all the other loans were now in default. And I say this 
because the stated purpose of the loan taken on one of the properties in 2008 was to bridge 
the sale of that property, and because of meeting notes from September 2010 which refer to 
the planned sales of two other properties.
 
It's notable that these three properties were all financed with 24 month loans, and while the 
partnership have stated that it had changed its mind about selling these three properties, 
given the unfavourable market conditions at that time, it remains the case that the agreed 
loan facilities were due to expire in September 2010 and February 2011 respectively, by 
which time the properties would have been needed to have been sold or new extended 
facilities agreed. 
And, while I acknowledge that one of the partnerships complaint points is that NatWest 
werent open to the possibility of extending the shorter-term loans as they expired, I haven't 
seen any evidence that the partnership discussed the possibility of extending the loan 
facilities on these three properties with NatWest at those times. And I also haven't seen any 
evidence that NatWest insisted to the partnership that these three properties be sold, or that 
the partnership was opposed to such sales. 
As such, given that the plans appear to have always been to sell these three properties, it 
seems more likely than not that the sale of these properties wasn't forced upon the 
partnership at the insistence of NatWest, but rather was the culmination of a long held plan 
to sell the properties around this time.
The partnership also contends that as a result of the loans being consolidated that it paid 
charges and fees that were unreasonable.
In April 2011 the bank offered to consolidate the partnership's existing loans into one two-
month facility, repayable through refinancing with other institutions or through property sales. 
This offer included a capped fee of £3,000 to cover all security reviews. These were reviews 
undertaken by NatWests legal representatives of all the security documentation charging 
the partnership's properties to the bank, and I'm satisfied, given the circumstances, that it 
was reasonable for NatWest to have initiated such reviews. 
Its also notable that, in the end, the total fee charged for these reviews was £1,890. This 
means the fee charged here was under 0.2% of the amount of the borrowing and as such 
Im satisfied that it wasnt unfair.  
 
In September 2011 a new six-month loan was offered to cover the borrowing that remained 
outstanding and a new arrangement fee of £3,000 was charged. When annualised, this fee 
equates to over 3% of the total borrowing at that time. This is a relatively large percentage 
amount for such a fee. However, it must be noted that no arrangement fee was charged for 
the £1 million loan arranged earlier that year, and so when considered holistically, I don't feel 
that the amount of fees charged to the partnership here was excessive.
 
The partnership has referred in its complaint to surveyors fees, but I haven't seen any 
evidence of these fees and so Im unable to comment further on this aspect of the 
partnerships complaint.
Finally, the partnership has also stated that NatWest gave it poor advice about borrowing 
including the use of the 24 month interest only facilities referred to above.
I can appreciate that the partnership feels strongly about this point, but I dont feel that this 
aspect of the partnerships complaint is one that its within the remit of this service to 
consider.
The reason I say this is because this service isnt free to investigate all the complaints it 
receives and has to abide to a strict remit which is defined in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) 
section of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. 
In particular, DISP rule 2.8.2 states that, unless the business consents, or unless exceptional 
circumstances apply, the Financial Ombudsman Service may not consider complaints that 
are brought to it:
1. More than six years after the event complained of; or (if later)2. More than three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or 
ought reasonably to have become aware) that they had a cause for complaint
NatWest have consented to this service being able to review all complaint aspects relating to 
the time that the complainant  in this case the partnership  were under the management of 
GRG. But in this instance, the advice that the partnership received about which it wishes to 
complain took place before the transfer to GRG, and so the consent that NatWest provided 
doesnt apply.
Furthermore, the events being complained about took place more than six years ago, and 
while Im aware that the partnership feel that they only became aware that they could 
complain at the time that they raised their complaint with NatWest in 2018, Im satisfied that 
the partnership ought reasonably have been aware that they had a cause for complaint 
much sooner for this, and certainly no later than when they first encountered difficulties with 
the 24 month termed loans in 2010. Similarly, having considered the circumstances, Im 
satisfied that the exceptional circumstances clause doesnt apply.
This means that Im satisfied that this aspect of the partnerships complaint isnt one which 
its within the remit of this service to consider.
However, Im aware that the partnership feels that the root cause of the issues being 
complained about here is that some of the property loans were placed on short (24 month) 
loan agreements which were different to those of the rest of the properties - which were set 
up with longer loan terms. The partnership believes that had all its properties been set up on 
the longer loan term then the issues that arose when the shorter loan terms expired would 
never have taken place.
Additionally, the partnership states that it only agreed to the 24 month loan terms on some of 
the properties because it received verbal assurance from NatWest that they would be open 
to renewing the loans when they expired. Because of these points, I will make some general 
comments.
Ive reviewed the submissions provided to this service and I've been unable to find any 
written record of such an assurance provided to the partnership by NatWest, and no 
recordings of the conversations where the assurance may have been given survive. 
This would make it very difficult for me to consider holding the bank accountable to such an 
assurance, given that no record of it exists. And it also must be noted that, even had such a 
spoken assurance been given, that assurance can be superseded by later directives issued 
by the bank in response to, for instance, changing financial circumstances. 
As such, while Id have no reason to question the testimony provided by the partnership in 
this regard, Id also have no way to confirm that testimony, and even if it were confirmable I 
wouldnt consider that NatWest would have been bound to it in the face of the changing 
financial circumstances that were prevalent at that time.
 
Furthermore, while the partnership has expressed dissatisfaction that some of the property 
loans were only set for 24 months, these were ultimately loans to which the partnership 
agreed. 
All of which means that I find it very difficult to conclude that NatWest have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably with regard how they managed the partnerships ongoing business 
relationship following the transfer to GRG, or in how NatWest transferred the relationship to 
GRG in the first instance.I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs and Mr P wanted here, but it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or asking NatWest to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Mrs and Mr P will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman