DRN-3761235
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined their claim for storm damage 
under their home insurance. The policy was in joint names but, for ease of reading and 
because she brought the complaint, Ill refer only to Mrs D throughout my decision.
What happened
During a named storm, roof tiles came off Mrs Ds home and part of the lead roofing tore. 
Her garden fences also came down. She appointed a local roofer to repair the damage so 
that the water ingress wouldnt get worse and cause further damage. Mrs D took photos of 
the roof.
Mrs D claimed under her buildings insurance policy. QIC appointed a contractor to inspect 
the roof, who concluded that the tiles showed evidence of previous repairs, along with wear 
and tear. QIC declined Mrs Ds claim, explaining that if it hadnt been for the existing wear 
and tear, the storm wouldnt have caused the damage.
Mrs D complained to QIC. She said shed maintained her roof over the years which was why 
there was evidence of repairs. But Mrs D was particularly unhappy that QIC referred to 
online evidence which showed her roof in a worn condition before she even owned the 
house.
Nevertheless, QIC remained of the view that the damage was caused mainly because of 
wear and tear, and it declined the claim. So, Mrs D brought her complaint to our service.
To begin with, our investigator didnt think QIC had treated Mrs D fairly because it hadnt 
explained what wear and tear was evident. She recommended that QIC settle the claim, 
including the fences, at its own contractors costs, and pay £100 compensation for the failure 
to handle the claim appropriately.
QIC didnt agree. It said all the evidence pointed to the roof showing signs of wear and tear. 
And, because Mrs D had the work done before it could inspect the roof, QIC said it couldnt 
validate the claim. 
On further review, our investigator still thought QIC hadnt treated Mrs D fairly, but she said 
QIC should reconsider the claim and pay £100 compensation.
QIC remained unhappy, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. However, I wont be asking QIC 
to settle the claim and Ill explain why.
As this claim is for storm damage, Ive considered three questions:
Was there a storm?
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
Theres no dispute that there was a storm, and there doesnt seem to be any dispute that 
broken roof tiles is typical damage caused by a storm. 
So, Ill concentrate on the third question:
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
Mrs Ds roofer said the damage was caused by the storm. QIC declined the claim because it 
said the roof tiles slipped or broke mainly because of pre-existing wear and tear which was 
highlighted by the storm. Ive looked at the Field Surveyors report and agree thats what is 
documented. Its also the reason QIC gave in its final response to Mrs Ds complaint. 
However, my concern is that QIC hasnt adequately described the wear and tear or 
explained why that wouldve been the more likely cause of the damage than the storm. For it 
to rely on the storm condition of the policy, QIC would need to show that the claim is 
excluded.
QIC provided photos of the roof taken after Mrs D had the repairs done. I appreciate it may 
have been more difficult for QIC to determine the exact cause of the damage because Mrs D 
had the repair done immediately. But she didnt have the whole roof replaced, so I cant 
agree that QIC wouldve been unable to validate the claim.
Part of QICs reason for declining the claim is because of the remaining evidence of wear 
and tear, along with historical images showing the same problems.
Ive looked at the photos of the roof after the repairs, and the screenshots of online photos of 
the house. The best way I can think of to describe the roof tiles is higgledy-piggledy. But Im 
not an expert in roofing, so its not appropriate for me to try to reach an opinion on the 
condition of the roof. 
My role is to decide whether QIC fairly declined the claim based on the evidence. But I find 
that, without commentary from an expert to explain what the photos show, I cant reasonably 
say whether it was fair. 
Im not aware that Mrs D is a roofing expert either, so Id have expected QIC to give her a 
much clearer explanation of its decline, rather than just stating it was due to wear and tear 
and providing photos. Its unreasonable to expect her to draw her own conclusions about the 
wear and tear that QIC said was evident.
That said, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask QIC to settle the claim. Thats because its 
reason for declining may well be fair and in line with the policy, but it would need to be much 
clearer about that.
So, to put things right, QIC should reconsider Mrs Ds claim in line with the policy, and Id 
expect it to provide a reasonable explanation for the decision it reaches on the claim. To be 
clear, Im not asking QIC to accept, or settle, the claim.
FenceAs the fence damage is only covered under the policy if there was also damage to the house 
during the same incident, I cant ask QIC to settle that element of the claim in isolation. QIC 
should consider the fence damage alongside its consideration of the roof damage.
Compensation
Finally, our investigator thought QIC should pay Mrs D £100 compensation for the shortfalls 
in handling her claim. I can see why Mrs D would be frustrated at being told the claim was 
declined without proper explanation. Had QIC said exactly why it thought the roof was in 
poor condition, Mrs D may have accepted its position, or been better able to make an 
informed challenge to its decision. Therefore, Im satisfied that QICs handling of Mrs Ds 
claim fell short of what she could reasonably have expected, and for that reason Im 
requiring QIC to pay her £100 compensation.
In summary, QIC hasnt adequately explained why it declined Mrs Ds claim, so I cant 
reasonably say it treated her fairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and QIC 
Europe Limited must:
reconsider Mr and Mrs Ds claim in line with the policy, and provide a reasonable 
explanation for the decision it reaches, and 
pay Mr and Mrs D £100 compensation for the failure to adequately explain the 
reasons for declining the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman