DRN-3501783
The complaint
Mrs A has complained that Aviva Insurance Limiteds agents caused damage to her boiler 
while carrying out a service. Mrs A held a Plumbing and Boiler cover policy with Aviva. 
All reference to the insurer Aviva in my decision includes its agents. 
What happened
Mrs A bought a plumbing and boiler cover policy with Aviva in October 2020. She said her 
boiler was around four years old. In June 2021 an engineer on behalf of Aviva carried out a 
service of Mrs As boiler. No faults were identified. 
Later in June 2021 Mrs A reported a leak from the boiler. An engineer attended on 2 July 
2021 and reported finding a grommet from the condensate connection was not fitted to the 
trap and was therefore leaking condensate water. Aviva said the grommet was refitted and 
the engineer tested for any further leaks before leaving.
In October 2021 Mrs A reported a leak from her boiler to Aviva. She said the leak had been 
ongoing for some time but she had been out of the country and so unable to report it until 
now. 
On 4 October 2021, an engineer appointed by Aviva found a leak from the flue manifold and 
also a leaking valve on the pipe work. Aviva said both items were replaced by the engineer. 
Aviva said neither of these leaks were in relation to the previous leak repair completed in 
July 2021. 
In October 2021 Mrs As annual service was due and so an engineer attended two days later 
to carry this out. This engineer identified a leak from the condensate trap and recommended 
that the boiler be isolated.
Mrs A didnt agree to the isolation as she said she needed heating and hot water. On 4 
November 2021 Aviva arranged for an engineer to carry out a repair to the condensate leak. 
Mrs A complained to Aviva. She felt based on the actions by the engineers  and the advice 
to isolate the boiler in October 2021  Aviva should pay for the costs to replace her boiler. 
Mrs A cancelled her Direct Debit so cover no longer exists. 
Aviva said the engineer who carried out a service in June 2021 identified some surface rust 
present in the boiler - but as there was no active leak on inspection, they thought it possible 
that there had been a previous leak which had resulted in the rust reported.
So it said it wasnt responsible for the condensate leak  or the leak from the flue manifold 
and pipe work valve.
It did however uphold Mrs As complaint about the engineer who carried out a service in 
October 2021  as he had failed to report his findings (resulting in the advice to isolate the 
boiler) to Aviva. It collected a premium after Mrs A had cancelled her Direct Debit which it 
refunded. For the frustration and inconvenience caused, Aviva paid Mrs A compensation of 
£185.
Mrs A asked us to look at her complaint. Our Investigator said no reference was made to any 
existing rust from the service carried out on 2 June 2021 and she couldnt see rust in the 
photo provided by the engineer. She thought it would have been easy for the engineer to 
report and evidence any rust. The fact that this was not reported or evidenced made  in the 
Investigators view  the report provided questionable. So she wasnt persuaded that there 
was a leak present before the service was carried out on 2 June 2021. And so she believed 
it was more likely that the grommet that wasnt fitted correctly causing the leak  which Aviva 
confirmed could have been dislodged when checking other parts under the service  was 
more likely than not the cause of the condensate leak. This wasnt something that Mrs A was 
likely to have been responsible for. 
The Investigator also expected that  had the grommet been incorrectly attached before the 
service in June 2021, that the engineer would have picked this up at the time. But no faults 
were found. 
Photos taken by engineers on 30 June 2021 and 4 October 2021 showed a marked change 
in the level of rust to Mrs As boiler. However, the Investigator didnt find any evidence to link 
the leaks to the manifold flue and pipe work valve to the condensate leak  or that Mrs As 
boiler required replacing as a result of the leaks or repairs. So she concluded that Aviva was 
responsible for the rust damage to Mrs As boiler caused by the condensate leak, but not for 
replacing Mrs As boiler. 
The Investigator recommended Aviva put things right by paying for the costs to remove the 
rust damage or appoint a company to remove the rust damage the condensate leak caused. 
If Aviva decide to pay for the rust damage removal, the Investigator thought Mrs A should 
obtain an invoice. She also recommended Aviva should compensate Mrs A £75 in addition 
to the compensation it already offered her.
Aviva accepted that its engineer who carried out the service in June 2021 was responsible 
for the condensate leak . But it said the other leaks could have caused rust corrosion  and 
as we havent found that Aviva is responsible for those leaks, it follows that the damage 
associated with them wouldnt be either. 
Aviva says unless the rust has affected the boilers ability to work, which the Investigator 
agrees it hasnt, then there is no reason to remove the rust as it is purely for aesthetic 
reasons and will not prevent any suitably qualified engineer from carrying out effective 
checks and repairs in the future. Aviva says it will not affect the working or safety of the 
boiler in any way.
Mrs A didnt agree. She says the total recommended compensation of £260 isnt enough to 
reflect the inconvenience caused by having engineers attended several times and having to 
go back and forth with Aviva. Mrs A says a further fault has been identified with the boiler. 
As both parties disagree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont intend to go into the same level of detail as I can see that the Investigator has done 
this  and both parties dont dispute the key complaint points. So Ill focus on the remaining 
issues where there is disagreement. 
Mrs A is unhappy that the damage to her boiler was caused by acid leaking and that this was 
unsafe. Aviva acknowledged that there was a small level of acid from the leak which has 
resulted in rust damage, but there was no risk to safety. I havent seen anything to suggest otherwise. So from the information available, I cant say that Aviva is responsible for causing 
a health and safety risk by its errors. 
I think from the evidence available that the engineer who carried out a service on 2 June 
2021 is most likely responsible for the condensate leak that led Mrs A to contact Aviva later 
the same month. But I havent seen evidence to show that the other leaks identified in 
October 2021  which Aviva also repaired  were linked to the condensate leak. And so I 
cant safely conclude that Aviva is responsible for those leaks and any resultant damage 
from them. 
While I acknowledge Avivas comments about the cosmetic only benefit of cleaning the rust 
 and that its possible the other leaks may have contributed to the rust damage  I think in 
this case a fair outcome is for Aviva to meet the costs to have the rust removed for Mrs A.
I understand Mrs A feels the recommended compensation award isnt enough. I think  
taking everything into account  compensation of £260 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by Avivas failings is fair. I think with any call outs and repairs, its reasonable to 
expect a degree of inconvenience. I think for the additional call outs and repairs and the time 
involved for Mrs A, the recommended compensation award is fair and in line with awards we 
make for similar circumstances. 
I understand there are further issues with Mrs As boiler  but this isnt something I can 
consider. My decision covers the complaints Mrs A raised up to and including November 
2021 when Aviva replied to Mrs As complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following: 
meet the costs to remove the rust damage from Mrs As boiler  or alternatively 
reimburse Mrs A for these costs if she makes private arrangements - subject to 
reasonable proof of payment.
Pay Mrs A £75 in addition to the £185 if Aviva hasnt already paid it  making the 
total compensation award £260 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Aviva must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs A 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs A how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs A a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman