DRN-2829006
The complaint
Mr A complains that an appointed representative of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed 
to provide him with suitable advice, or sufficient information, when it recommended that he 
open, and later increase his contributions to, a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) pension plan.
What happened
Mr A was advised by an appointed representative of Friends Provident. However that firm is 
now part of Aviva, so it is Aviva that is responsible for dealing with the complaint. And Mr A 
has been assisted by his wife in making the complaint. But, in this decision, for simplicity 
I will simply refer to Aviva and Mr A.
Mr A was a member of an occupational pension scheme (OPS). In June 1996 he met with 
Aviva to discuss making additional provision for his retirement. Aviva recommended he open 
a personal pension plan in order to make FSAVCs. And Mr A then had a further meeting with 
Aviva in April 1999 following an increase to his salary. Aviva recommended that Mr A 
increase the payments he was making each month to his FSAVC plan.
Mr A says that he recently became aware that he might have been better off paying 
Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVCs) to his OPS instead. He says that Aviva failed to 
make him sufficiently aware of that option when it advised him to pay FSAVCs in 1996 and 
1999. So he complained to Aviva. It took Aviva some time to respond to Mr As complaint so 
it paid him £100 for the trouble and upset the delay had caused him. But Aviva didnt agree it 
had done anything wrong when it provided its advice to Mr A. So he brought his complaint to 
this Service.
Mr As complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought that Aviva had 
failed to provide sufficient information about the difference in charges between an AVC and 
a FSAVC scheme when it provided its recommendation to Mr A in 1996. And he thought that 
the advice it provided in 1999 was simply a top up of the existing arrangement. So our 
investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld and he asked Aviva to pay Mr A 
some compensation.
Aviva didnt agree with that assessment. It pointed our investigator to another decision 
issued by an ombudsman that concluded the information it had given Mr A in 1999 was 
appropriate. It said that it thought that, even if what it had provided in 1996 had been 
deficient (which it didnt), then Mr A should have been aware of the differences between the 
two contribution options by 1999. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr A accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr A and by Aviva. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a 
consumer and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask 
the business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
As part of its initial submissions on this complaint Aviva confirmed that it provided its consent 
for us to consider it. So that means I dont need to decide whether the complaint has been 
made in time, in accordance with the complaint handling rules set by the FCA. That means it 
is appropriate for me to consider the entire complaint.
What was Aviva required to do?
In May 1996 the Personal Investment Authority (PIA  Avivas regulator at the time) issued 
Regulatory Update 20 (RU20), codifying the procedures it expected product providers to 
follow in future sales. The PIA said that, before selling a FSAVC, tied advisers (such as the 
appointed representative of Aviva that Mr A dealt with) should:
Draw the consumer's attention to the in-house alternative
Discuss the generic differences between the two routes (taking account, among 
other things, of the features described in this article)
Direct the consumer to his employer or the OPS for more information on the in-house 
option
The article also refers to the lower charges under an in-house AVC in general terms. It says:
Charges under in-scheme AVCs will usually be lower than those under FSAVCs, 
reflecting economies of scale, rebated commission or a contribution to administration 
expenses by the employer. Of all the differences between the two routes, this is likely 
to exert the greatest impact on which route would offer the greater benefits to the 
client.
What does the evidence suggest happened in 1996 and 1999?
Aviva has provided us with its records from the two meetings that were held with Mr A. From 
those records it appears that copies of the meeting notes were sent to Mr A by post following 
the meetings. Mr A has said that he doesnt recall receiving those letters, and that he didnt 
sign any of the reports that were produced.
Ive no doubts that Mr A has provided his complete and honest recollections of what 
happened at the time. But the events in question took place up to 25 years ago. Im mindful 
that over such a lengthy period of time even the most careful of memories can, and do, fade. 
On balance I have no reason to doubt that the reports of the meetings that Aviva has sent us are a fair and accurate reflection of the discussions it had with Mr A. And I think those 
reports were most likely sent to, and received, by Mr A.
The relevant notes from 1996 say;
Having checked the details of AVCs available under your occupational pension 
scheme you are satisfied there is no reason why the purchase of a FSAVC would not 
be suitable for your needs. 
And Aviva says that Mr A was also given a factsheet at the time. That offered consumers 
comparisons of various features of AVC and FSAVC plans. In relation to charges/expenses, 
the following comparison was offered;
FSAVC AVC
Individually costed contractCost basis will vary dependent 
upon the scheme, but may have 
the advantage of spreading costs 
between members
And later on the factsheet went on to say;
if you want full details of the in-house AVC scheme it will be necessary for you to 
contact your employer / scheme trustees for the information
On the basis of the above I am not satisfied that Aviva did enough to sufficiently draw Mr As 
attention to the strong likelihood that the costs of an AVC arrangement would be lower than 
the FSAVC plan it was recommending. I dont know what information it was suggested Mr A 
should gather from his employer before agreeing to Avivas recommendation. But there is 
nothing in the notes from the time that suggests a full and frank discussion about the 
difference in the charges took place.
Mr A next met with Aviva in 1999. By that time he had been promoted at work, and his 
annual salary had increased. So he again reviewed his retirement provision with Aviva. The 
letter Aviva sent him summarising those discussions said;
We discussed the fact that you are eligible to make additional contributions to your 
occupational scheme and that you should contact your employer for more information. 
I explained the different features of employers AVC arrangements and the Free 
Standing AVC and these are detailed on the comparison chart that I left with you.
And since the meeting in 1996 Aviva had updated the comparison factsheet. The section on 
charges / expenses now read;
FSAVC In-House AVC
Individually costed contractCharges under in-house AVCs will 
usually be lower than FSAVCs 
reflecting economies of scale and 
reduced administration expenses
So whilst I would agree that the information Aviva provided to Mr A in 1999, when 
considered in isolation, reasonably disclosed the difference in charges Im still not persuaded 
this was enough. As before there is nothing to suggest that Aviva had a full discussion with Mr A about the difference in charges, or even highlighted the importance of him reading that 
specific section of its factsheet. And there is the very real possibility that, since Mr A was 
simply increasing the contributions he had started in 1996, the failings in that sale simply 
carried forwards into the discussions in 1999.
Did Mr A lose out as a result of Avivas failings?
Generally, as Ive explained above, the cost differences between an AVC and FSAVC plan 
might be of greatest importance to a consumer. These were additional pension savings 
being made to provide an income in retirement. So the over-riding aim would be to maximise 
the value of those savings when they were needed in future years. 
Of course the charges might not have been the only reason why Mr A might have chosen a 
FSAVC arrangement. Generally the benefits from an AVC plan would need to be taken at 
the same (or occasionally later) time as the benefits from the main pension plan. But Mr A 
wanted to retire at 55, and the normal retirement age of his OPS was 60. He could only retire 
earlier, and take benefits from the OPS, with the consent of his then employer. Obviously 
given that was some twenty years in the future, that could not be assumed. So Mr A might 
have found it attractive to be able to determine when he took his FSAVC benefits himself.
But the FSAVC benefits would only have formed a small proportion of Mr As overall 
provision for retirement. On their own it is unlikely they would have been sufficient for Mr A to 
retire. He would have needed the additional benefits from the OPS. So, on balance, I think 
the main area that would have been of importance to Mr A here was the difference in cost. 
Had Aviva made that difference sufficiently clear in 1996, I think it more likely that Mr A 
would have chosen to make AVC payments rather than those to a FSAVC plan.
But although, three years later, Aviva corrected the information failings that had occurred in 
1996 I must make it clear that I doubt Aviva highlighted the changes in its factsheet wording 
when Mr A agreed to increase his contributions in 1999. And so I dont think it is 
unreasonable to conclude that there is a strong risk that the sale in 1999 was heavily 
influenced by what had happened before. On balance I think it most likely that Mr A paid little 
attention to the revised information, and simply agreed to continue with the FSAVC plan hed 
already opened albeit with increased contributions. I havent seen enough to persuade me 
that Avivas discussions with Mr A in 1999 would have negated the problems that occurred 
previously.
So I think that Aviva providing better information to Mr A in 1996 would have resulted in him 
deciding to utilise an AVC arrangement, rather than taking out the FSAVC plan that Aviva 
recommended. I accept there was no requirement for Aviva to provide a detailed comparison 
of the differences between the two arrangements  that was an investigation that Mr A 
needed to conduct for himself. But I think Aviva did need to specifically highlight the most 
important differences, of which cost was undoubtedly the most relevant. And given the 
deficiencies of the sale in 1996 Im not persuaded that Aviva did enough to correct those 
problems when Mr A increased his contributions in 1999. I dont think the evidence suggests 
the cost difference was given sufficient prominence in those discussions to persuade him he 
should reverse the steps he took in taking a FSAVC in 1996.So I dont think Aviva did enough, in either 1996 or 1999, to meet its regulatory 
responsibilities when it sold the FSAVC plans to Mr A. So Aviva needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Aviva should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005. The 
FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising solely 
from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is used 
to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits. 
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 
1 January 2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 
1 January 2005 and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter. 
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mr As pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr A as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be 
tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement 
 presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman