DRN-3583447
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complained that their claim for storm damage under their thatched home 
insurance policy with Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) was unfairly declined.
What happened
During a period of heavy rainfall, Mr and Mrs A said their thatch roof was damaged which 
caused rainwater to penetrate it and subsequently led to some flooding internally. Damage 
was widespread, including damage to internal walls and carpets. Mr and Mrs A appointed a 
thatcher to take photos of the damage and apply a temporary tarpaulin covering to prevent 
further rainwater entering the property.
Mr and Mrs A made a claim under their policy and Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to 
validate the claim. Fairmead said having reviewed the claim I understand a claim was 
submitted under the storm peril, for damage to your roof and the subsequent internal 
damage caused by the water ingress. In order for a claim under the storm peril to be 
considered there has to be storm conditions present prior to or on the date of loss and the 
roof would need to show signs of visible storm damage. The loss adjuster appointed to your 
claim confirmed there was no visible evidence that the roof had been damage by a one-off 
event of storm. Weather records were also checked and there were no storm conditions 
present either prior to or on the date of loss. The loss adjuster confirmed your roof had 
allowed water to ingress due to wear and tear, which is excluded from the policy and 
therefore the claim to cover the costs to repair the roof was declined. However, as the policy 
provides cover for Accidental Damage, the internal damage caused by the ingress of water 
was accepted.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. He said it was clear damage was caused 
to Mr and Mrs As property. So, he thought the damage should be covered as Mr and Mrs A 
had an all risks policy and Fairmead hadnt provided enough evidence that it could fairly 
rely on the exclusions within the policy to repudiate the claim. He said the claim should be 
re-considered in line with the remaining policy terms. Fairmead disagreed, so the case has 
been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 7 June 2022. I said:
I have not considered the internal damage as Fairmead settled this as accidental damage. I 
have only considered the external damage which Fairmead declined. Fairmead said the 
claim was made under the storm peril but said there was no signs of visible storm damage 
and it didnt think there had been storm conditions at the time. Fairmead concluded the 
damage to the external roof was caused by wear and tear. So, Ive considered whether 
Fairmead has been reasonable in reaching these conclusions.
The policy is somewhat unusual in that it doesnt define the individual perils covered (e.g. 
storm, fire, flood). As the policy doesnt restrict cover to a list of specific causes of damage, 
Mr and Mrs A can make a claim for any loss or damage. However, the policy is still likely to 
have a list of exclusions and conditions. No policy will cover everything.
So, as the storm peril isnt a defined peril that the policy intends to cover, I dont think its fair 
that Fairmead has simply declined the claim as it said there wasnt any evidence of storm 
damage. However, Fairmead has highlighted a list of uninsurable risks that are listed out in 
the policy. I can see one of these uninsurable risks states: damage caused by wear and 
tear, atmospheric or climatic conditions (other than storm or flood), rot, fungus, mice, latent 
defect, insects or any gradual cause.
Fairmead told our service the basis on which the external repair to the roof were declined 
was that for a claim to be accepted for the external repairs required, this would have to be as 
a result of either storm conditions (storm force winds) or accidental damage. There was no 
evidence of damage caused by storm force winds on the photographs from our video call 
with the policyholder or the photos provided by the policyholder.
So, I have considered what Fairmead has said. I dont think its fair it has declined the claim 
on this basis. Mr and Mrs A has provided video evidence of their roof letting water in. The 
amount of water entering through the roof was significant and widespread. I have seen a 
video of the rainfall outside Mr and Mrs As home and its very heavy  so I think Mr and Mrs 
A has provided evidence that the weather conditions were bad and couldve caused 
damage. Fairmead has said there wasnt any storm force winds, so there wasnt a storm. I 
dont think this matters. Fairmead hasnt clearly defined the term storm in its policy. Our 
service thinks a storm can involve heavy rainfall, storm force winds or both. So, as I havent 
seen that Fairmead has done enough to show why this exclusion applies, I dont think its 
reasonable to rely on it. 
Fairmead also said given the exclusion in the policy for repairs required as a result of wear 
and tear and the evidence supporting the roof repairs being required due to gradual 
deterioration of the roof thatch, I feel we should maintain our position in declining any costs 
of external repairs.  As Fairmead has relied on the exclusion of wear and tear, I have 
considered whether it has provided sufficient evidence of this wear and tear.
Mr and Mrs A provided a testimony that theyve met the conditions of the policy by having a 
master thatcher inspect their roof in the last ten years. In 2015, a report was produced by the 
master thatcher and Mr and Mrs A said they implemented all the recommendations. 
Therefore, it appears that Mr and Mrs A have kept their roof well maintained, so I would 
expect Fairmead to have shown significant evidence of wear and tear if it is to rely on this 
exclusion to decline the claim. I dont think it has, so I intend to uphold this complaint. Ill 
explain why I think this.
Fairmead said inspection of the front elevation over the bedroom and bathroom found no 
storm related damage such as areas of displaced or missing thatch to support a valid 
tempest claim. As we consider inclement weather has highlighted a latent defect and/or a 
maintenance requirement and as such not covered by the policy. Fairmead has said it 
hasnt seen any evidence storms displaced the thatch or highlighted clear damage. 
However, I dont think Fairmead has evidenced that wear and tear is the cause of the 
damage either, I think it has just defaulted to that answer. If wear and tear was the issue, I 
wouldve expected Fairmead to demonstrate areas of the roof that had been poorly 
maintained, or areas of the roof that had deteriorated due to its age. As it hasnt provided 
any specific evidence to demonstrate wear and tear to Mr and Mrs As roof, it hasnt done 
enough to rely on the exclusion.
I think Mr and Mrs A has demonstrated there is damage, as they have shown evidence of 
the leak and their thatcher has had to make a temporary repair. The policy covers all 
damage and I dont think Fairmead has done enough to convince me the exclusions apply.  Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint, I intend to require Fairmead to re-consider the 
claim against the remaining policy terms, which includes any expenditure incurred on 
temporary repairs.
As I think the claim has been unfairly declined, I think Fairmead has added unreasonable 
delay to the conclusion of this claim. Mr and Mrs A havent been able to complete the repairs 
on their thatch and they have had to have an unsightly temporary repair on their property for 
this time. Therefore, I intend to award £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
they have suffered.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs A didnt say whether they accepted or rejected my decision, but they confirmed 
they didnt have anything further to add.
Fairmead didnt say whether they accepted or rejected my decision. Fairmead re-shared 
some information it had provided before.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to:
Re-consider the claim against the remaining policy terms
Pay £200 compensation  for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman