DRN-3691030
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC surrounding his 
request to transfer an ISA to another bank.
What happened
Mr K wanted to transfer his ISA from Barclays to another bank upon maturity and completed 
an ISA transfer instruction with the other bank. However, he received a letter from Barclays 
advising that theyd been unable to validate the transfer information provided by the other 
bank and which explained that the other bank had been informed and should be in contact 
with Mr K shortly to confirm how he wanted to proceed. 
The letter also asked Mr K to ensure that all information provided to Barclays regarding the 
requested transfer was up to date, but didnt advise what information, if any, had been 
incorrect on the requested transfer. Mr K wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr K submitted another ISA transfer request to the other bank, but then received another 
letter from Barclays similar to before. Shortly afterwards, Barclays responded to Mr Ks 
complaint. They explained that the wrong maturity dates had been supplied by the other 
bank, which was why the two transfer requests hadnt been accepted. Barclays therefore 
didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint, although they did later pay compensation of £25 to Mr K for 
customer service issues hed encountered when telephoning Barclays about the issue.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response Barclays 
had issued to Mr Ks complaint, including the payment of £25 compensation, already 
represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened.
Mr K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im satisfied from the information provided to this service by Barclays that 
they didnt receive the correct information from the other bank to enable them to process the 
first two ISA transfer requests. Indeed, I note that Barclays also didnt receive the correct 
information from the other bank in regard to a third transfer request that was received, but 
that because the ISA had matured at that time the incorrect information wasnt relevant and 
they were able to complete the ISA transfer to the other bank at that time.
Im aware that Mr K has spoken with the other bank at length and believes that the correct 
information was sent by the other bank to Barclays. As such, its difficult to understand why 
the incorrect information was received from the other bank by Barclays, but as explained I 
am satisfied that the information that Barclays received wasnt correct.  
One reason for this is that Barclays have provided confirmation to this service of the 
information they received from the other bank, which is incorrect, and also because Barclays 
arent able to change any of the information thats received from a third-party bank in such 
circumstances. 
Indeed, I note that regarding both transfer requests, Barclays acted quickly to inform Mr K 
that the information theyd received wasnt correct. And so, in consideration of all the above, 
I hope that Mr K will understand why I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably uphold this 
complaint against Barclays as he would like.
Mr K has also complained about the customer service issues he encountered when trying to 
resolve this matter with Barclays directly. Barclays have acknowledged that Mr K didnt 
receive the standard of service from them that he should reasonably expect, and Barclays 
apologised to Mr K for this and made a payment of £25 to him by way of compensation.
Matters of compensation can be subjective. But given the circumstances here, the £25 that 
Barclays have paid to Mr K does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate 
with what I might have instructed Barclays to pay to Mr K, had they not already done so. As 
such, I wont be instructing Barclays to make any further compensation payments to Mr K.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr K was wanting, but it follows from what Ive 
explained above that I wont upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any 
further action here. I hope Mr K will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made 
the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman