DRN-2394168
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy Bank of Scotland plc hasnt refunded him £27,000 he lost to an investment 
scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator when she wrote to the 
bank upholding Mr Ds complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mr D made three payments via telephone banking to an account controlled by a 
fraudster. He sent £10,000 on 30 May 2019, a further £10,000 on 31 May 2019 and 
£7,000 on 1 June 2019. 
He did so on the premise he was investing money with a legitimate investment 
company.
The company had been cloned by the fraudsters. Theyd set up an operation that 
appeared professional and genuine but was in fact fake.
The fraudsters used details of a genuine investment firm to make the scam more 
convincing.
Whilst there are now warnings about the cloned firm on the regulators website, they 
were not present at the time Mr D fell victim to the scam. 
The case was considered under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM or the 
Code). This is a voluntary scheme Bank of Scotland has signed up to, designed to reimburse 
customers that have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the Code is for a 
customer to be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer 
has not met their requisite level of care. In making such an assessment, a firm may consider 
whether the customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for belief that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
On 10 December 2019, Bank of Scotland issued its final response. It declined Mr Ds claim.  
It said it had no reason to prevent him from making the payments at the time. It suggested 
that under the Code, Mr D was required to take a certain amount of care to confirm any 
payee is genuine. It pointed out he could have researched the investment company online 
before sending money or paid using a secure payment method such as a debit card. 
It contacted the receiving bank to try to recover the money Mr D had sent. But no funds 
remained in the recipient account. 
Mr D brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Bank of Scotlands 
decision. One of our investigators looked into the matter and recommended the complaint be 
upheld. 
Our investigator found Mr D had a reasonable basis for believing he was pursuing a 
legitimate investment. She noted what Mr D had said about researching investments online 
and having had contact with other investment companies around the same time. Against this 
backdrop, she understood why an email from an investment company, especially a cloned 
one, would not have stood out to him. She highlighted Mr D had spoken to the scammer on 
several occasions and discussed various different investments before identifying one which 
met his needs. She noted the sophistication of the scam and felt it would have further 
convinced Mr D he was speaking to a genuine member of staff from the real investment firm. 
She pointed out what Mr D had said about researching the investment company online. 
Our investigator also noted Mr D made the payments using telephone banking on three 
consecutive days. She could see from his bank statements it wasnt usual for him to make 
transfers of this amount and frequency. She felt Bank of Scotland had missed three clear 
opportunities to discuss the transfers he was making. She thought had the bank asked him 
about the payments, as well as providing him with information about how investment scams 
may look and feel, Mr D would not have gone on to make any of the payments at all. She 
pointed out Mr D did phone the number on the real firms website when he wanted to cash in 
the investment he thought he held, so she felt it was likely he would have called if prompted 
to do so by the bank.
The investigator concluded Bank of Scotland ought to have fully reimbursed Mr D for his loss 
in order to settle the complaint, together with interest at the simple rate of 8% a year from the 
date each payment was made to the date of settlement. She also said Bank of Scotland 
should pay £350 compensation to Mr D to recognise that it missed the opportunity to prevent 
the scam from taking place, causing him a great deal of distress. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 9 October 2020 with a deadline for 
responding of 23 October 2020. Mr D responded to accept the findings the next day. 
Bank of Scotland did not reply during the response period. That deadline has now passed 
and the bank has still failed to respond, despite significant opportunity to do so. As such, the 
case has been escalated to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Bank of Scotland to the 
investigators initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have and/or to take account of Bank of Scotlands failure to reply to the 
investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether, under the CRM, Mr D ought to have been fully reimbursed when he 
notified the bank of the scam. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not he met his 
requisite level of care. I believe he did, for substantively the same reasons the investigator 
has already explained. I also agree with what our investigator said about the bank missing 
clear opportunities to step in and question the transactions at the point they were being 
made. This finding doesnt alter my consideration of Mr D being refunded under the Code, 
but it does mean Bank of Scotland should pay 8% simple interest from the date each 
payment was made.
Although most of Mr Ds distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal acts 
of the fraudsters, I think Bank of Scotland could have done more to protect him from the 
impact of this, especially given its obligations under the Code and its statutory duty to co-
operate with our complaints process (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook). I therefore agree with our investigators recommendation that £350 
compensation for distress or inconvenience should fairly be paid in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mr D ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded. I therefore direct Bank of Scotland to pay Mr D:
the money he lost  i.e. £27,000  within 28 days of receiving notification of his 
acceptance of my final decision; plus
interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date each payment was made to the date of settlement; and
£350 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of receiving 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will thereafter 
accrue at the same rate until payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman