DRN-1432391
 
The complaint
Mr N has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr N was involved in an accident and made a claim under his insurance policy. Admiral 
looked into the incident for him but decided he would be held fully at fault for the accident.
Mr N wasnt happy about the fact that he was held at fault. And that Admiral led him to 
believe that the worst possible outcome was 50/50 (split liability) during the early stages of 
the claim before going on to tell him that he was always going to be held fully responsible for 
the accident. Mr N said that he wouldnt have advanced the claim if he had known this as he 
was expecting to get at least half of his excess back.
Admiral explained why Mr N was held fully at fault for the accident. It did apologise for not 
being clearer about liability at the beginning and offered £50 compensation. But Mr N 
remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold the complaint. She accepted that 
Admiral couldve been clearer about the likely outcome of the claim. But she thought that 
Admiral did outline a worst case scenario (that Mr N could be held fully liable) when he first 
reported the incident. So, she thought Admiral had acted reasonably.
As Mr N didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Ns position as the excess he has had to pay was a lot of money. But he 
was always going to have to pay his excess in any event. But he couldve claimed some or 
all of it back from the third party if he wasnt found completely at fault for the accident.
In looking to decide liability Admiral is entitled under the policy to take over the settlement of 
the claim. Legal proceedings can be time-consuming, expensive and the outcome very 
uncertain. So insurers use their professional knowledge and experience to decide the likely 
outcome of claims.
This service doesnt decide liability, but we look to ensure that insurers act fairly and look at 
the available evidence in a fair and reasonable way. As Mr N appears to have accepted this 
position, and that he would be held fully liable, I wont go over the finer details of the case. 
But without any independent witnesses or CCTV evidence I dont think Admirals position is unreasonable, especially as Mr N emerged from a minor road into the path of the third party.
Although I agree that Admiral couldve been clearer in managing Mr Ns expectations about 
the chances of success, I dont think it acted unreasonably. I wouldnt expect Admiral to 
prejudge the claim. As such, it wasnt unreasonable to look into the possibility that Mr N 
wasnt fully at fault. Generally, I would expect an insurer to consider this possibility. And 
Admiral did tell Mr N that he could be held fully at fault for the accident during the early 
stages of the claim, so I think it acted fairly.
Furthermore, given the costs to repair Mr Ns car it was still likely that the cost would be 
more than his excess in any event even if Mr N got the repairs done cheaper independently. 
Plus, the other driver was always going to claim against Mr N through his insurance, so he 
always would have had a fault claim against him. 
Overall, although I think Admiral shouldve managed Mr Ns expectations better and has 
acknowledged it gave him false hope, I think its offer of a small amount of compensation is 
fair. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman