DRN-2453367
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that they were given unsuitable mortgage advice by National
Westminster Bank Plc.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The underlying facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons.
The mortgage that was taken in 2011 was for a 23-year term. Whilst Mr and Mrs S have said 
the term was shown in months thats not so. Part way through the illustration and offer it 
mentions months as it sets out how much the payments will be initially, and then what they 
will change to at the end of the preferential rate period. But the key information is at the start 
of the documents and that shows the term in years. The Your mortgage requirements at 
the start of the mortgage offer states You require the term of the mortgage to be 23 years.
The contemporaneous notes from 2011 show Mr and Mrs S originally applied for a 25-year 
term, but it was shortened to 23 years following discussions with Mr S about his retirement 
income. Unfortunately, due to the passage of time theres no further information available 
about that, but that contact note was recorded at the time, so it is strong evidence of what 
happened, and that the term was discussed and agreed.
Mr and Mrs S recall that the initial monthly payments that were discussed were too high as 
they could only afford £1,000 a month, and Barclays kept amending the figures until a 
monthly payment of around £1,000 was achieved. They say they were only told the term in 
months at that point and were only focused on the fact it was what they could afford, so they 
didnt notice the term took them both past their 65th birthdays (Mr S will be 65 years and 8 
months, and Mrs S will be 65 years and 9 months).
Mr S has said his employer had a set retirement age of 62 years old. Unfortunately, theres 
no record of him telling NatWest that at the time. Mr and Mrs S said:
Nat West were not aware of my retirement and never asked and this is where they 
failed. If they had checked they would have asked to alter the term or make higher 
payments. None of this was discussed with me
Again awareness is one thing but understanding the implications is another. I would 
also point out at that time the agism act came into effect and we did not know 
whether the retirement age at 62 would stick.
But the contact notes (9 August 2011) say:
Both have said that they hold pensions which theyd expect to pay apprx 66% of 
existing income post age 65 yrs
The notes at the time also record a conversation with Mr S on 10 August 2011 about the 
term and their retirements. The note says:
Salary mandated to NW account £39200/£2410. mrs £1992/166 CHB £2449.20. Tax 
Credits £559.65. Insufficient pension income to support mortgage into retirement and 
therefore term reduced by 2yrs Have spoken to Mr who is happy to reduce term to meet 
g/lines and am happy with that that he has sold a motorbike and funds will be in accounts 
by cob today with remainder by 27/08 as purchase of bike is on holiday
I have no way of knowing which version of events is correct  NatWests or Mr and Mrs S. 
But because Mr and Mrs S are the ones bringing this complaint against NatWest, to uphold 
the complaint their version needs to be more likely than NatWests version. Unfortunately, 
their version is no more than just as likely. 
The reference in the above contact note to the sale of the motorbike ties in with the 
mortgage appointment booking note we have on file. That shows the appointment was 
booked on 4 August 2011 for the afternoon of 9 August 2011. The notes on it state:
£215k paying off exist mrtg & nemo finance. Seen customer in dec & was only just 
moving booked pma 29/12/10 but was unable to come in, we have then been waiting for 
him to sell all his bikes to pay off the credit cards now ready.
Which is contrary to Mr S recollections, which were:
I can remember the initial conversation at the bank was a very quick chat. I had gone to 
the branch and the advisor said can we interest you in a mortgage. I was just paying in a 
cheque and next thing i was arranging a £216k mortgage.
It seems the initial conversation was in December 2010 and an appointment was booked at 
the time, but was cancelled by Mr and Mrs S. The follow up appointment was then discussed 
on 4 August 2011 and booked in with a mortgage adviser for 9 August 2011. There were 
various conversations with Mr S throughout the process; first about their incomes and 
retirement, and later about the fact their property had been downvalued so they needed to 
select a new interest rate. The mortgage then completed on 23 September 2011. So 
although Mr and Mrs S have referred to it as rushed and pushed, the timeline doesnt seem 
to support that.
To achieve a mortgage that was repaid before Mr S turned 62 years old the term would have 
needed to have been 19 years.
Mr and Mrs S have said:
In August 2011 I wanted to get all my finances sorted out. I had two parts to my 
current mortgage. One part with Northern Rock and the other with Nemo personal 
finance. Both were around £1100 a month together.
The Idea was to bring both parts together under Nat West and my only criteria was to 
keep it around £1000 a month as that was what I could afford.I was finding it hard financially, but we could cope at a £1000 a month.
They did mention the term at 23 years but to be honest I was only listening to fact it 
was under a £1000 a month
What if they had told me to pay £1200 to finish by 62. Would I have been able to 
make these payments. Would I have defaulted? These are unknowns but the risk 
would have been much higher with a much higher monthly bill
If we had done this from August 2011 it works out around £159 a month extra for the 
term. I may have been able to afford that  just.
The facts are a rushed application and mortgage deal was thrust upon me and the 
financial offer of a £1000 a month was all i was interested in. It saved me £200 on the 
current deal i had. That £200 was more than enough twice over to reduce the term to 
62 - if i had known!!! To change the offer in 2011 to £1100 a month would know 3.6 
years off the mortgage. I could have afforded that easily. In 2019 it would now be 
£1350 a month to reduce the term. Also the offer was written in months to me which i 
did not correlate into years or age at the time?
I continually expressed to the advisor my desire to stay around £1000 a month and 
they showed me they could offer £1004 a month
If NW had said in 2011 you need to pay £1100 a month and not £1000 to end the 
mortgage by 62 i could have afforded the extra £100.
I was focused on what i could afford. I wanted the £1000 a month
I wanted a £1000 a month as i was paying £1200. To reduce my term to 62 years 
old i would have had to pay £100 a month extra which i could have afforded
I told Nat West I could afford a £1000 a month but no more really. They then 
calculated what that equated too and said they could lend on affordability if I had a 
£1000 mortgage.
But the mortgage that completed in 2011 wasnt £1,000 a month. The completion letter that 
was sent to Mr and Mrs S on 23 September 2011 said:
The first monthly payment at current interest rates will be £1,134.95 and will be 
collected by direct debit from [bank account details] on 28 October 2011.
Your subsequent monthly payments, based on current interest rates, will be the same 
amount.
To shorten the term to 19 years then the monthly payment needed would have been around 
£1295; way above what Mr and Mrs S have indicated they could have afforded.
Based on everything Ive seen Im satisfied a 19-year mortgage term wouldnt have been 
sustainable for Mr and Mrs S and so it is likely they would have got into financial difficulties 
during the term. 
The remortgage was undertaken to repay an existing mortgage and a secured loan. Whilst 
we dont have the details of those mortgages (such as the terms and interest rates) the names of the lenders alone leads me to believe the interest rates on those would have been 
higher than the new mortgage Mr and Mrs S took with NatWest. Thats because neither 
lender was, at that time, a normal high street lender offering competitive interest rates. 
If Mr and Mrs S were only paying £1,100-£1,200 a month to those other lenders it seems 
likely the terms were significantly longer than the 19 years that would have been needed to 
get the mortgage repaid before Mr S turned 62 years old. This means there wasnt the option 
to just leave things as they were as Mr and Mrs S likely already had a mortgage and secured 
loan that ran past Mr Ss 62nd birthday, and in addition the monthly payments throughout the 
term would have been higher due to what I suspect were the likely higher interest rates.
This is a case where there was no perfect solution. The options that were available it seems 
were for a 23-year mortgage that was sustainable for 19 years but there could be a problem 
for the last 4 years if nothing had changed during the term, or a 19-year mortgage that was 
likely to be unsustainable from the start but that would be set to end before Mr S 62nd 
birthday. As I said, neither is perfect, but the first option has meant Mr and Mrs S have 
stayed in their home all this time and now, due to a change in circumstances, theyre in a 
position to repay the mortgage in full once their current fixed rate product ends in September 
2022, so when Mr S is 53 years old.
Having considered everything, whilst it is clear there were failings by NatWest, Im satisfied 
Mr and Mrs S werent financially disadvantaged by them for all the reasons given. Im 
pleased to hear that things have resolved themselves in an unexpected way and I cant 
imagine the relief thats given Mr and Mrs S having that pressure taken off them. It must 
have been a strain worrying about what would happen when Mr S retired. But as Im 
satisfied a 19-year term wasnt sustainable, and the option to stay with their current lenders 
wasnt likely to have been better for them, then I cant award any compensation however 
much Mr and Mrs S may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman