DRN-3591680
The complaint
A church, which Ill refer to as C, complains about the handling by Barclays Bank UK PLC of 
its request to open a new bank account.
Mr S and Mr P, two of the authorised representatives of C, bring the complaint on C's behalf.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are familiar to both parties, so I wont repeat them all 
here. In summary:
C was already a customer of Barclays.
In August 2021, C applied to Barclays to open an additional account for a special 
fundraising appeal it was planning to launch in October. The signatories to the new 
account were to be the same as for its existing account. Barclays told C that the 
account would be opened before its relationship manager went on leave in mid-
October, but this didnt happen.
Barclays said that an in-person meeting was required, which happened in late 
September. This delay was due to Barclays requiring a staff member from a different 
branch to be present. C explained at the meeting the urgency in establishing its new 
account, given that the account number was required for both the leaflets being 
prepared and the online giving facility being set up in advance of the appeal launch. 
One signatory of C wasnt present at the meeting but submitted the required forms a 
week later. 
Despite many phone calls and assurances that the account would be set up in good 
time prior to the launch, Barclays didnt process the new account application until 
early November. Barclays explained that this delay was due principally to the 
absence of Cs relationship manager.
On 1 December, the requested account was finally opened, five weeks after the 
launch of the appeal and more than three months after Cs original application.
Even then, the account wasnt fully operational. It took a further four weeks before a 
second signatory on the account had online banking access which, given the account 
required dual authorization, meant that C was unable to make payments, transfers or 
withdrawals in this time. 
In November 2021, C complained to Barclays. It said that Barclays should compensate it for:
the lost income resulting from it being unable to offer an online giving facility in the 
first five weeks of the appeal and not having bank details on its promotional material;
the time, effort, and costs incurred by Cs representatives to sort out Barclays 
administrative failings; and
additional costs incurred, such as reprinting the appeal leaflets, amending the web 
site, accounting charges, etc.
In March 2022, following our involvement, Barclays responded to Cs complaint. It 
recognised there had been some delays due to the unavailability of Cs relationship manager 
and offered C £200 for the inconvenience caused. It is also offered to reimburse C for any 
charges resulting from its delays, eg to update the website or to reprint flyers.
Mr S and Mr P were unhappy with this response, saying that it neglected to acknowledge the 
catalogue of errors and delays which they had experienced. So they brought Cs complaint 
to our service.
At this point, Barclays acknowledged its broader errors, including the delays in setting up the 
account with two signatories. It apologised for the delays and inconvenience it had caused 
and repeated its offer of compensation.
Our investigator considered Cs complaint. She said that Barclays had clearly caused Cs 
new account application to be delayed, and had caused further delay in processing the 
second signatory to have online access. She sought to mediate a resolution to the dispute, 
which resulted in Barclays increasing its offer to £400 for the inconvenience caused, plus a 
further £100 for the cost to C of reprinting leaflets. However, C rejected this offer. Our 
investigator then said that, in her view, Barclays should pay C £500 for the inconvenience 
caused, plus £100 for the leaflets.
C didnt agree with this view, so the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Barclays made significant mistakes in how it handled Cs application 
for a new account. A process which C was led to believe should take a couple of weeks took 
over three months. It appears to me that throughout the process, Cs representatives 
complied promptly with all requests from Barclays (even if they didnt always understand the 
need for those requests), while, at several points, Barclays did not progress Cs application 
swiftly. Even when the account was set up, there were errors which made it partially 
inoperable. In my view, Barclays clearly provided C with a poor service.
Given that the account is now operational, the subject of this dispute, and the matter for me 
to decide, is the extent of loss and inconvenience caused to C by Barclays mistakes and the 
appropriate compensation Barclays should pay. 
C has said that it suffered a loss of £100 from the need to re-print leaflets once the account 
details were available. I think it is fair for Barclays to reimburse C for this cost.
Mr S and Mr P estimated that Cs appeal lost out on around £1,270 of donations due to the 
delay in being able to provide account details to potential donors, including being unable to 
provide an online facility for donations. This was estimated as 10% of the donations received 
over the affected period by other means.
In addition, Mr S and Mr P told us that they and other representatives of C had spent in total 
about 50 hours of their time pursuing these matters. They submitted that this could be 
quantified in two ways: at a low commercial rate, this time could be evaluated at £1,000; or on the basis of the opportunity cost of this time, the lost fundraising activity could be 
estimated at £1,270. They have indicated that they believe the sum offered by Barclays is 
derisory for the inconvenience its mistakes have caused; and theyve suggested that the 
best way by which Barclays could restore its credibility and reputation is through a 
contribution to Cs appeal.
In determining a fair amount of compensation payable by Barclays to C, I have noted:
Mr S and Mr P have queried the extensive bureaucracy in establishing Cs new 
account, eg in the need for them to attend a Barclays branch to register the 
application. Theyve said this seemed excessive given that all the required 
signatories were existing signatories on an existing Barclays account for C. However, 
in my view, the steps required to set up the new account do not appear to have been 
unreasonable. It is for Barclays to determine the processes it requires to ensure that 
it manages its risks and fulfils all its regulatory obligations, and I have not seen 
anything to suggest Barclays acted unfairly towards C in the evidence it required 
from Cs representatives or in the steps it required them to take. For this reason, I 
believe that much of the effort required by Cs representatives to address Barclays 
requests, which might have seemed excessively burdensome, was necessary and 
reasonable. 
Nevertheless, it is also clear that Barclays mistakes caused Mr S and Mr P and other 
representatives of C to incur considerable extra inconvenience. They had to make 
many phone calls to chase up a process which took far too long, with some of these 
calls going unanswered and messages seemingly ignored. Barclays mistakes 
wasted a considerable amount of their time, and drew them away from the 
fundraising programme which should have been their focus. However, while I 
acknowledge the considerable time required of Cs representatives to resolve matters 
caused by Barclays mistakes, this service does not typically award compensation for 
inconvenience based on a complainants or representatives hourly rate or in terms of 
the opportunity cost from the time spent. Rather, we look at the overall impact that 
the mistake had.
In terms of the loss to the appeal, although the cheques received in the early period 
of the appeal couldnt be banked initially due to the delays, they were banked 
subsequently, so no loss was suffered in this regard. Some donors might have 
questioned why it took so long to bank the cheques, with some reputational impact 
on C, but I believe this effect would have been minimal.
Many of the donations that would have been made during the period of delay, when 
the account was unavailable, will have been made subsequently  although it is 
impossible to say how many. Mr S and Mr P believe that, by the time the online 
facility was available, some people will have forgotten about the appeal and therefore 
not donated, but they recognise that it is impossible to say what value of donations 
would have been lost. In my view, it is likely that those who were most keen to 
donate, and therefore those who would typically have made larger donations, would 
have found a way to do so, either by cheque or later through the online facility. So, 
although some donations will have been lost, I believe it is likely that these will have 
been of lower value.
In these circumstances, I believe that the amount of compensation sought by C is higher 
than I would typically award to compensate it for the banks mistakes.Our investigator has proposed that Barclays should pay C £500 to compensate for the 
delays, and a further £100 to compensate C for its loss relating to the reprinting of its 
leaflets. This would take the total compensation to C for Barclays mistakes to £600. I think 
that, in the circumstances of this complaint, this amount is fair.
I acknowledge that Mr S and Mr P, and others involved in Cs appeal, will have experienced 
some stress resulting from Barclays mistakes. However, the complainant in this case is C 
and as an organisation is unable to feel distress, I am unable to award anything to C or its 
representatives for this.
I also note that Mr S and Mr P have complained about Barclays complaint-handling 
procedures. However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and therefore, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, this isnt something I can consider. 
I acknowledge that Mr S and Mr P will be disappointed with this decision given the time and 
effort which has been required of them to address matters. However, in the circumstances of 
this complaint and for the reasons set out, I believe this compensation is fair.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay C £600.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2023.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman