DRN-1499894
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the boiler service that was due to be carried out by Great Lakes 
Insurance SE as part of his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr A arranged for his boiler to be serviced as part of his home emergency policy. When the 
engineer visited, he said he was unable to carry out the service because he was concerned 
that he wouldnt be able to refit the boiler casing. After the engineer left, Mr A found that the 
boiler casing was damaged.
Mr A complained to Great Lakes. When Great Lakes replied it said that the engineer couldnt 
carry out the service because of how close some pipes were to the boiler casing. It also 
didnt accept that the engineer had damaged the boiler casing. However, it offered to refund 
the premium Mr A had paid for the policy as well as money for the damaged part.
Mr A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said there 
wasnt sufficient evidence to show that the engineer had damaged the boiler casing and she 
thought that Great Lakes had acted reasonably in how it resolved the complaint.
As Mr A did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A said that his boiler was damaged by the Great Lakes engineer. He said that the boiler 
casing wasnt damaged during the previous service, carried out by another company, and 
that no-one else had dealt with the boiler since then. He said this meant that it must have 
been damaged by the engineer. Mr A also said that the engineer told his son that the boiler 
casing was damaged, but that the engineer said he hadnt caused the damage.
Great Lakes was unable to provide an engineers report from the visit. However, it provided 
a phone call between the engineer and the Great Lakes complaint handler who investigated 
Mr As complaint. The phone call took place a couple of weeks after the engineers visit. 
During that phone call the complaint handler asked why the boiler couldnt be serviced and 
then asked about the damage. The engineer explained his concerns about being able to fit 
the case back on the boiler and that if this wasnt possible that the boiler would need to be 
switched off. He said that Mr A wasnt there, so had spoken to Mr As son to try and explain 
the issue with servicing the boiler.
Ive thought about this carefully. I can understand that Mr A thinks that the engineer 
damaged his boiler, particularly as he said the boiler wasnt damaged before the visit. 
However, having looked at the evidence as a whole, I think that it is more likely than not that 
the engineer didnt damage the boiler. This is because, having listened to the phone call, the 
complaint handler asked questions that allowed the engineer to explain what happened 
without being led in a particular direction. The damage also wasnt raised until later in the 
conversation and the engineers response, in my view, seemed genuine and credible  
which was that he didnt damage the boiler. Of course, I realise that if the engineer did 
damage the boiler, he would have known that he was likely to be asked about this when the 
complaint handler phoned him. But, even taking that into account, Im not persuaded that the 
engineer damaged the boiler.
Ive also thought about Mr A saying that the engineer told his son that the boiler was 
damaged, but that he hadnt damaged it. The engineer said he spoke to Mr As son and that 
he explained his concerns about servicing the boiler. I dont know exactly what was said in 
that conversation, but, in my view, it doesnt demonstrate that the engineer himself was 
responsible for the damage, which is what is alleged. I accept this doesnt explain how Mr 
As boiler was damaged, but I dont think the evidence shows that it was due to the Great 
Lakes engineer.
I am also aware that Great Lakes didnt carry out the boiler service. This was because the 
engineer said that he thought he might not be able to get the case back on the boiler 
afterwards due to some pipework. Im aware that Mr A said that after the visit he was able to 
remove the boiler case and put it back on the boiler himself. However, I dont think it would 
be reasonable for me to say that the engineer should have carried out the service if he 
thought that it might make Mr As boiler unusable by doing so.  
When Great Lakes investigated, although it didnt uphold the complaint, it refunded the 
premiums and also gave Mr A some money for a replacement part. I think that was a 
reasonable response to Mr As complaint and I dont require Great Lakes to do anything 
further. Having said that, Im aware that Mr A said that he didnt bank the cheques, so if Mr A 
now wishes to accept Great Lakes offer, he should discuss this with Great Lakes to ensure 
that the cheques are still valid and how he can still receive the payment if they are not.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman