DRN-2967891
The complaint
Mr S complains that Soteria Insurance Limited (trading as Co-op Insurance) cancelled his 
motor insurance. Hes also unhappy about the way it dealt with the cancellation.
What happened
Mr S took out a motor insurance policy with Co-op in June 2020. Nine days after the policy 
started, Co-op wrote to Mr S to say it had received information that didnt match the 
information it held in its records, and that Mr S no longer fitted the criteria for the policy. So it 
was cancelling it in nine days time. Mr S says the letter took a long time to arrive, and he 
didnt receive it until he got home from work the day before the policy was due to be 
cancelled.
Co-op says it has refunded Mr Ss premium for the period after the insurance was cancelled. 
But it charged him a cancellation fee of £120.
Mr S is unhappy that Co-op gave him so little notice that it was going to cancel the policy, 
and with its reasons for doing so. Hes also unhappy that the cancellation of his policy is now 
shown on insurance industry shared databases. This may mean that he pays higher 
premiums for insurance in the future. And he says he experienced inconvenience, as he was 
unable to drive until hed arranged alternative insurance.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and recommended that it should be 
upheld. In brief, he didnt accept that Mr S had made a misrepresentation to Co-op when he 
applied for the policy. He thought that if Co-op had worded the application more clearly, the 
answer Mr S would have given would have resulted in Co-op refusing to cover him. So the 
policy wouldnt have come into effect, and thered have been no cancellation fee.
So the investigator said Co-op should put Mr S into the position hed have been in if he 
hadnt taken the insurance out. He said it should refund the £120 it charged Mr S to cancel 
the policy, subject to a deduction for the short period when the policy was in force. And it 
should remove the entry about the cancellation from the Claims and Underwriting Database 
(CUE). He also said Co-op should pay Mr S £100 to reflect the trouble and upset hed been 
caused.
Co-op disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional findings
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to Co-op on 8 July 2021. I said:
Mr S had had an accident 11 days before the policy with Co-op started. On the online 
application for the policy he was asked whether hed had any accidents, claims or losses in 
the last five years. He answered, correctly, that he had. There followed a series of questions 
about the details, including the question Was the accident your fault?. There were boxes to 
click marked Yes and No. Mr S clicked on the No box.
Mr S says the accident wasnt his fault, and his previous insurer, who was insuring him at the 
time of the accident, has confirmed this. Co-op says it checked the CUE and discovered that 
the claim for the accident Mr S had told it about was still open, and should therefore be 
recorded as a fault claim. Its pointed out that on the online application it said Please note 
that it is important you read carefully the Help text which accompanies some questions and 
provides additional explanation. And it says that Mr S would have had to click to confirm 
that hed read this to continue with the quote.
Co-op believes that if Mr S had read the Help text hed have answered the question 
correctly, as the information given in relation to a fault claim is clear and not misleading. 
And it considers that its clear Mr S was careless in the way he answered the question.
I disagree. Was the accident your fault is a straightforward question, in plain English. There 
may be scope for differences of opinion about whose fault a given incident was. But Mr Ss 
previous insurer had told Mr S that it wasnt treating the accident as his fault. And I dont 
think it was careless or misleading of him to answer the question the way he did.
If Mr S had clicked on the small icon next to the question, he might have discovered that 
what Co-op actually wanted to know was whether hed had whats known in the insurance 
industry as a fault claim in the previous five years. But thats a different question entirely. 
An insurer will usually record a claim as a fault claim unless and until it recovers all its costs 
from the other party. So the question in categorising a claim as a fault claim is not whether 
the insured was in fact at fault for the incident. In some cases they may have been. But a 
case may be categorised as a fault claim where  as I understand was the position in 
Mr Ss case  the insured was entirely without fault for the incident but the insurer is still 
waiting to recover all its costs. In situations where the full costs are subsequently recovered, 
the record is changed to show the claim as non-fault.
I acknowledge that Mr S would have needed to click to confirm that hed read and accepted 
the wording explaining that it was important that he read the Help text which provided 
additional explanation of some questions. But I dont think that an icon next to whats on the 
face of it a perfectly clear question, indicating that theres more information available about 
the question was enough to alert Mr S to the possibility that possibility that the question 
actually meant something entirely different from what it appeared to mean.
Nor do I accept that the information given in the help text is as clear as Co-op claims. It says 
that A fault claim is where the insurer is unable to recover their costs from someone else. It 
goes on to give some examples of why this might be, including that the claim is not yet 
settled. But a claim not yet being settled isnt, in my view, an example of a situation in which 
an insurer is unable to recover their costs. The insurer in such a case may or may not 
eventually recover their costs. If the claim is not yet settled, its too early to know for sure.
Whats more, the help text seeks to explain what a fault claim is. And it says that an insurer 
may regard a claim as a fault claim even if the insured doesnt consider themselves to be at 
fault. But it doesnt clearly say that if the applicant has had a fault claim against them within 
the last five years, they need to tick the Yes box to indicate that the accident was their fault.
So in summary, I dont think Co-op asked the question that it wanted the answer to. And 
theres no reason that Im aware of to doubt that if it had asked that question clearly, Mr S 
would have provided the details that Co-op needed.
Im satisfied therefore that Mr S did not misrepresent the situation when he answered the 
question about whether the accident was his fault. Consequently, Co-op was not entitled to 
take any action in respect of the policy. It should not have been cancelled, and instead 
should have remained in force.I understand that Mr S managed to obtain replacement cover that was in fact cheaper than 
the premium due under the Co-op policy. That means that Mr S does not need the cover for 
the full term of the Co-op policy to be reinstated, as might normally be the remedy where a 
consumer has unfairly had their cover cancelled mid-term. But because Co-op acted unfairly 
when it cancelled the policy, reference to it doing this should be removed from its internal 
database, and from any external databases.
To reflect the fact that the policy has been cancelled  and Mr S has taken replacement 
cover  I consider Co-op should ensure that any references recorded about the cancellation 
should show that it was Mr S who cancelled the policy. This should mean that the 
cancellation does not impact upon Mr S when applying for future insurance cover.
As no question of cancelling the policy would have arisen if Co-op had acted fairly in this 
matter, it should refund the £120 cancellation charge. But it should also refund all premiums 
Mr S paid, including the deposit of £452.09. Co-op may subtract from the refunds a pro-rata 
premium for the period of cover that Mr S has had under the policy, which I understand is 
from 7th to 25th June 2020.
Im satisfied that Co-op sent the cancellation notice to Mr Ss correct email address nine 
days before the cancellation. I acknowledge that Mr S says he didnt receive the email, but 
I cant fairly hold Co-op responsible for that. However, I accept that Mr S has experienced 
trouble and inconvenience as a result of the cancellation of his policy with Co-op, and I think 
that the £100 that the investigator recommended is reasonable to reflect that.
And I explained that I intended to uphold the complaint and to require Co-op to put things 
right by doing as Ive set out below.
Further submissions
Mr S says hes happy with my provisional decision. Co-op hasnt provided any further 
comments or evidence, and the time for doing so has now expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
To put things right Co-op should, to the extent that it hasnt already done so:
Refund premiums that Mr S paid for the policy. For the avoidance of doubt, this should 
include the deposit that Mr S paid for the policy, but Co-op may subtract from the 
refund a proportionate premium for the 19 days inclusive that the policy was on risk. 
I calculate this to be £117.68;
Refund the cancellation fee that Mr S paid;
Pay simple interest on those refunds at a rate of 8% per year from the dates Mr S 
made the payments to the date he gets the refund;Explain to Mr S how it has calculated the refunds;
Record the policy as being cancelled by Mr S and amend any records on internal or 
external databases to reflect this, and
Pay Mr S £100 to reflect the trouble and inconvenience that hes experienced.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Soteria Insurance Limited (trading as 
Co-op Insurance) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman