DRN-3195375
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) have removed a fee-waiver 
on their Premier account. This resulted in them being charged a monthly fee for their 
account from September 2021. 
Mr and Mrs D say that they were promised when they took the account out in September 
2001, that theyd always get the Premier account for free, providing they kept their balance 
above £5,000.
Mr and Mrs D say that their neighbour has a Private Premier account and he is able to keep 
his account for free. Mr and Mrs D say that they thought they also had a Private Premier 
account, so feel they are being treated unfairly.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr 
and Mrs D disagreed, so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I think it might help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I have to decide what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on all the evidence that is available. And 
having considered everything that has been provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs D say that they were told that they would always be able to have a Premier 
account for free, providing they kept their balance above £5,000. Mr and Mrs D are referring 
to what is known as a fee-waiver, which has been a long-standing feature of the Premier 
account.
Unfortunately, as the sale of the account took place many years ago there is little evidence 
that is available about what exactly was said and agreed during the sale. Im also mindful 
that due to the time scales involved memories can change and fade over time. Furthermore, 
beyond Mr and Mrs Ds testimony, there is no other evidence available that shows, or even 
suggests, they were promised that Lloyds was essentially unable to change any of the 
features on the account, or at least the fee-waiver feature, for as long as they held it. In the 
circumstances, I think its more likely that they were told they could have the Premier 
account for free, providing they met the fee-waiver  essentially, like any other benefit, for as 
long as it existed as a feature on the account. 
In addition to considering what Mr and Mrs D mayve been told during the sale, I have also 
considered whether Lloyds was able to make such an amendment to the account. Again, 
due to the time scales involved, Ive not seen a copy of the account terms and conditions 
from the sale. However, the earliest records of the Premier account I have seen are from 
December 2002, and the terms of the account include a provision that says:
We may vary the service and facilities offered on the Premier Banking Service current 
account giving notice to you either in a newspaper, branch, on-line or letter if and when this 
is necessary or appropriate to do so.
This is a fairly standard account term that, and as far as I can see, has existed in some form 
or another in the account terms and conditions since then. So bearing this in mind, I think its 
likely that it was also included in the account terms and conditions in September 2001 when 
I understand Mr and Mrs D agreed to the account. 
I note that Mr and Mrs D have provided a copy of what looks to be an application form for a 
fee-free Classic account, that was signed in 2005. Mr and Mrs D quoted a section from the 
form that says our contract will continue to apply if you dont cancel and says that the 
adviser clearly explained that Lloyds could not cancel the benefits of the account unless 
there was a case of fraud. However, I dont find Mr and Mrs Ds argument particularly 
persuasive. I say this because firstly, the form looks to be for a Classic account and looks to 
be from 2005, and not 2001 when they say the account was sold to them. But even if the 
form was the form they completed when they took out the Premier account, immediately 
below the section they have highlighted it says:
We may vary this accounts features or conditions, by giving you notice in a newspaper, 
letter, branch or on-line
Therefore, I am satisfied that Lloyds was able to amend or remove the features of the 
account - as it did many times over the years Mr and Mrs D held it - providing it gave 
account holders reasonable notice of the changes. And in the case of Mr and Mrs D, I can 
see that Lloyds wrote to them in June 2021 to say that the fee-waiver feature on their 
account was being removed from the 1 September 2021. So I think that Lloyds did give Mr 
and Mrs D a reasonable amount of time in which to consider their options.
Did Mr and Mrs D have a Private Premier account?
Finally, Mr and Mrs D say that their neighbour has a Private Premier account, and they say 
their neighbour is able to keep a fee-waiver on their account. They say that as far as they 
are aware, they had the same account. 
Ive considered what Mr and Mrs D have said. But unfortunately, there is no documentary 
evidence to support what they say. 
I have looked at the evidence that Lloyds has provided, particularly the record of Mr and Mrs 
Ds account holdings  which shows the account number, product name, product status i.e. 
sole or joint and date the account was opened. And this says that the account was a Premier 
account. There is no mention that it was a Private Premier account  nor is there any 
mention that it is a Private Premier account in the customer contact notes either. Having 
raised this point with the adjudicator, the adjudicator did ask Lloyds to double check their 
records. And the additional screen shot Lloyds provided of their records also didnt indicate 
that the Premier account was categorised as a Private account either.  
As such, I cant say that Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs D unfairly.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont think Lloyds has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
because it chose to withdraw the fee-waiver feature on Mr and Mrs Ds Premier account. I 
therefore dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 Thomas White
Ombudsman