DRN-2206918
The complaint
Miss E believes Moneybarn Limited trading as Moneybarn acted irresponsibly by agreeing a 
conditional sale agreement shed applied for.
What happened
On 21 August 2016 Miss E took out a £7,990 conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn, to 
be repaid over 60 months with repayments of £268.42 a month. This was used to finance a 
used car and was repaid in full in December 2019.
Miss E has complained that Moneybarn didnt act responsibly when approving this finance 
agreement. She says they didnt assess her affordability adequately  when she applied she 
wasnt working many hours, was claiming disability benefits, and Moneybarn only considered 
the statements for one of her bank accounts. So they didnt get a full picture of her finances. 
Moneybarn didnt agree they acted irresponsibly, so Miss E has brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Moneybarn did a credit search and reviewed Miss Es bank statements 
when they agreed to the finance. The investigator said that the bank statements showed 
sufficient income to support the lending, but the credit file showed historic defaults. While the 
investigator didnt think the defaults were a reason why the lending shouldve been declined, 
she thought Moneybarn shouldve done additional checks.
The investigator considered the information that wouldve been provided to Moneybarn had 
they done these additional checks. And she thought this showed the finance wouldve been 
affordable to Miss E. Because of this the investigator said that, even if Moneybarn had 
carried out proportional checks when deciding to lend, theyd most likely have seen the 
finance was affordable. So she didnt think Moneybarn needed to do anything more.
Miss E didnt agree with the investigator. Shes said she had a suspended repossession 
order a month before she made the application. Shes also said that, when she applied for a 
mortgage in 2019, she was told by the mortgage company that the mortgage and 
Moneybarn finance agreement were unaffordable. And shes said that she struggled to 
maintain payments to Moneybarn.
Miss E has provided bank statements from around the time she took out the agreement with 
Moneybarn. And shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. Where reasonable 
and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the lending decision was 
fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if the 
loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Moneybarn havent been able to provide a copy of the credit search they did at the time of 
Miss Es application in 2016. Its not beneficial for any lender to approve a loan without 
checking the affordability, otherwise they have too great a risk of not getting any money 
back. And checking a credit file is both a key part of this, and also part of Moneybarns 
approval process. So I dont think Moneybarn not being able to provide a copy of the credit 
search means they didnt do one.
Ive seen a copy of the bank statements Miss E provided to Moneybarn at the time of the 
application. These show a total weekly income of £2,640.50 over seven weeks from one 
source, and two (possibly) weekly payments from another source. But this second income is 
not consistent over the period of the bank statements. So Id think it reasonable for 
Moneybarn just to use the first income, which averages £377.21 a week or £1,634.60 a 
month. Ive noted these bank statements dont show any outgoings but do show Miss E 
transferred money to another account on a regular basis.
Moneybarn have said they used an average income of £1,495.10 a month  less than the 
figure Ive calculated from the bank statements. Theyve also said that, based on the 
information contained within the credit search they did, Miss Es regular credit commitments 
cost her £268.42 a month, so they considered their payment to be affordable.
Im aware that Miss E has said the bank statements Moneybarn used werent her 
statements. And shes provided statements for the same account, for the same period of 
time, which have different transactions on them. 
Miss E made her loan application through a third-party car finance provider Ill call Z. She 
uploaded her bank statements to Z, who provided them to Moneybarn through an online 
portal. Ive seen the bank statements Z provided to Moneybarn and these match the bank 
statements Moneybarn used to make their lending decision; not the bank statements Miss E 
provided as part of her comments on the investigators view.
Im unable to say why the bank statements Miss E has now provided dont match the bank 
statements Z provided to Moneybarn. But theres nothing on the statements Moneybarn 
received to indicate that theyre not genuine. So I think it was reasonable for Moneybarn to 
rely on them when making their decision. If Miss E has any concerns about how Z dealt with 
her bank statements, she would need to raise this with them directly.
Ive also seen a copy of Miss Es credit file, dated May 2019, and this contains historic 
details from when the application was made in 2016. So Ive considered the information in 
this report and taken this to be what Moneybarn wouldve seen at the time. But, because the 
balances on credit agreements wouldve changed between 2016 and 2019, I cant accurately 
calculate how much Miss E wouldve paid for her monthly credit commitments from this 
credit file.This credit file shows Miss E had six credit agreements / financial products in August 2016, 
where all of the payments were up to date and there were no historic arrears. But this also 
shows Miss E had five defaults between January 2014 and January 2015. Different lenders 
have different criteria for lending, so I agree that the defaults dont necessarily mean that 
Moneybarn shouldve automatically declined the application. Especially because Miss E had 
maintained payments on all of her live credit, and the latest default was 18-months old.
But I also agree that Moneybarn shouldve done further checks before approving the finance 
agreement, especially because of the number of defaults in a short space of time. Given the 
presence on another bank account, I believe Moneybarn shouldve obtained copies of the 
statements for this (second) account so they could confirm if the finance agreement was 
affordable.
Ive also noted that this credit file shows Miss E took out a number of credit agreements after 
the Moneybarn finance agreement was approved. But it doesnt show her mortgage. So, 
even though Miss E said she had a suspended repossession order, Moneybarn couldnt 
have known this unless Miss E told them about it. And Ive seen nothing to show that she 
did. So I cant say Moneybarn have done anything wrong by not taking into consideration 
things they werent aware of.
And the presence of additional credit agreements means that Miss Es financial situation 
changed after the agreement with Moneybarn was taken out. So, just because she was told 
in 2019 that a mortgage and Moneybarns lending werent affordable at that time, it doesnt 
follow that Moneybarns lending wasnt affordable in 2016. This would depend entirely on 
what Miss Es financial situation looked like in 2016.
Ive reviewed the bank statements Miss Es provided, for her second bank account. Which is 
what Id have expected Moneybarn to have done at the time.
The statements for the second bank account cover the period 14 June 2016 to 13 
September 2016. Miss E has also provided later statements, but as these show her financial 
position after she had the finance from Moneybarn, Ive not considered these. The 
statements Ive considered show an additional weekly income of £92.93 from Tax Credits 
and a 4-weekly payment of £307.60 from benefits  an additional £735.92 each month.
The statements also show regular outgoings of £655.04 for things other than credit 
commitments i.e. mortgage, council tax, utility bills, insurances etc. So, if Moneybarn had 
obtained and considered these statements, they shouldve used a monthly income of 
£2,370.52, monthly outgoings of £655.04 and their calculated credit commitments payment 
of £268.42. Which would mean Miss E would have £1,447.06 for their payment and general 
expenses, food etc. Based on this, if Moneybarn had done the additional checks, Im 
satisfied their loan wouldve been affordable to Miss E at the time.
Given the above, Im satisfied that the finance agreement wasnt irresponsible or 
unaffordable at the time it was approved. So I wont be asking Moneybarn to refund any 
payments, charges or interest.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Es complaint about Moneybarn Limited 
trading as Moneybarn.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman