DRN-1913572
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund him for a 
payment he made after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr M got in touch with a company in order to get his garage roof replaced.  
Mr M says the company came to his home to assess the work and that evening sent him an 
email with a quote to complete it. Mr M replied by email accepting the quote. Mr M then got 
another email asking for a 50% deposit and providing bank details in order for him to make 
the payment. Mr M paid the deposit of £1,175 via his online banking on 15 March 2019, to 
the bank details on the email. Mr M says he was told via email that the company would come 
the following Friday to carry out the work.
When the company didnt turn up Mr M got in touch with them. It then came to light that the 
genuine company had heard nothing further from Mr M after they sent him the quote. Mr M 
had been the victim of an email intercept scam, whereby the scammer sent Mr M an email 
that appeared to come from the genuine company but had the scammers bank information 
on it and using an email address the scammers controlled. Mr M got in touch with NatWest 
immediately to let them know and asked them to recover his funds.
NatWest investigated and let Mr M know they could only recover £1. Mr M raised a 
complaint and asked them to refund the full payment, saying the payee name on his transfer 
shouldve been checked against the beneficiarys account information. He also felt as a long-
standing customer of theirs, that they should refund at least some of the money he lost. 
NatWest wouldnt refund the payment, so Mr M brought a complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. In summary they felt there was 
nothing NatWest shouldve done to prevent the payment, as the payment was made online 
and didnt appear sufficiently unusual or out of character as to have flagged with NatWest. 
Also, that NatWest had done what they could to recover the funds, but only £1 was 
recoverable. The investigator explained that at the time Mr M made his payment there wasnt 
a requirement on NatWest to check the account name against the payee name on Mr Ms 
transfer. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion, so the case was passed to me for a decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I wont be upholding this complaint for the following reasons.
Its agreed by Mr M and NatWest, that Mr M authorised the scam payment of £1,175, albeit 
as a result of Mr M being duped by the scammers. Mr M made the payment through his 
online banking, using his security details to log in and request the payment. Although Mr M 
didnt intend the funds to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr M is presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance. 
However, Ive also considered what was considered to have been good industry practice at 
the time which required NatWest to:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case Mr M made the transfer online and without the direct involvement of NatWests 
staff. And having looked at Mr Ms account statements, Im not persuaded that this 
transaction was sufficiently unusual or out of character that I wouldve expected it to flag with 
NatWest as suspicious or potentially indicate that Mr M mayve been the victim of fraud.
While I appreciate that it this was the first time Mr M had set up a new bill payee, the amount 
of the transaction, £1,175, wasnt significantly higher than previous transactions on Mr Ms 
account. For example, in the previous few months hed transferred £700 to another account 
and had a direct debit go through for nearly £400. Also, the payment didnt significantly 
reduce Mr Ms balance or clear his account of all funds. I realise that the payments I 
referenced are less than the £1,175, but there has to be a reasonable balance between what 
will flag as suspicious and preventing consumers being able to use their account without 
checking each and every payment that is a bit higher than usual  which would be 
unmanageable and unreasonable. In this case, there wasnt enough about the payment of 
£1,175 that made it sufficiently stand out, whereby I wouldve expected NatWest to have 
contacted Mr M before following his instructions and processing the payment. 
I understand Mr M feels NatWest shouldve checked the name on the transfer against the 
recipients bank account name. As the names didnt match, he feels NatWest shouldve 
stopped the transfer request from being processed. But the regulations and industry 
guidelines at the time of this transfer only required NatWest to check the unique identifiers 
(i.e. the sort code and account number). In this case Mr M provided a valid sort code and 
account number, albeit for the accounts held by the scammers. While change has happened 
around industry guidelines for the confirmation of payee name against the account name  
this wasnt in place at the time and cant fairly be retrospectively applied to Mr Ms situation.
I appreciate Mr Ms frustration in this matter, but NatWest were required to process Mr Ms 
transfer request.  And in the circumstances, I cant fairly say that NatWest shouldve taken 
any additional steps before doing so. 
Ive also looked at whether NatWest couldve recovered any more funds for Mr M, once they 
were aware of the scam. But having looked at the evidence from the receiving bank, nearly 
all of the funds left the scammers account within twenty-four hours of Mr M making the payment. Whereas Mr M didnt realise he was the victim of a scam until several days later. 
At the point that Mr M let NatWest know he had been scammed, they promptly got in touch 
with the receiving bank  which is what I wouldve expected. Unfortunately at that point only 
£1 remained in the scammers account. Therefore, NatWest has acted reasonably in 
refunding Mr M the £1 they were able to recover for him.
I appreciate that Mr M is going to be disappointed, and that he feels NatWest should make a 
goodwill gesture to him as a long-standing customer. But I cant fairly recommend or ask 
NatWest to do that, and I wont be asking NatWest to refund Mr M the funds hes lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman