DRN-3050077
The complaint
Mr D and Ms T complain that OSL Financial Consultancy Limited, trading as MortgageKey, 
provided them poor service and delayed their mortgage application.  
What happened
Mr D and Ms T have a buy-to-let mortgage on a property they own. They had an interest rate 
deal that was due to come to an end at the end of March 2020. In January 2020 they 
approached MortgageKey and asked it to act as their broker in arranging a re-mortgage.
The re-mortgage wasnt completed by the time Mr D and Ms Ts existing interest rate deal 
was due to end. Theyve said that, as a result, they felt they had to take a new interest rate 
deal with their existing lender, as it was the only option available to them.
They complained to MortgageKey about the service it provided. They say it hadnt kept them 
updated and that its communication had been poor. They also said it had delayed the 
application, which caused them to have to take a new interest rate deal with their existing 
lender. They said they calculated that the new deal with their existing lender was going to 
cost them £15,000 more, over the two years the rate was fixed for, compared to the 
mortgage theyd applied for through MortgageKey. So, they said they wanted MortgageKey 
to pay them the £15,000 they felt theyd lost as well as to compensate them for the upset 
caused.
MortgageKey said it didnt think it had made any errors. It said that the lender had required 
additional information at various stages which had caused the application to take longer. But 
it felt it had communicated promptly and clearly throughout.
Unhappy with this response Mr D and Ms T asked our service to look into their complaint.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2021 explaining that I was inclined to uphold Mr D 
and Ms Ts complaint in part. Below are extracts from those provisional findings, explaining 
why I thought this.
Mr D and Ms T have been clear that they wanted the re-mortgage to be completed by the 
end of March 2020, to coincide with the end of their existing mortgage interest rate deal. And 
Im satisfied they made MortgageKey aware of this. Theyve said, when this didnt happen, 
they were left with no choice but to take up the offer from their existing lender, which theyve 
said was on less favourable terms than the mortgage they were applying for through 
MortgageKey. But Im not sure I agree that this was the only option available to them.
Although their interest rate deal was ending, they did have the option to keep their existing 
mortgage after that rate expired, while their application was completed or while they 
approached another different lender. I appreciate that this wouldve likely resulted in the 
existing mortgage moving onto a reversion rate, most likely their existing lenders standard 
variable rate, which wouldve resulted in their mortgage repayments increasing in the short 
term. And I can understand why this might not have been their preference. But I dont think I 
can say that this meant they had no option but to take up the more expensive deal.
Mr D and Ms T accepted the new deal with the existing lender, in the knowledge that this 
was less favourable than the re-mortgage they were applying for. And this was ultimately 
their choice. So, I dont think I can fairly hold MortgageKey responsible for this decision or for 
the additional cost involved.
I have though considered the service provided by MortgageKey as part of the application. 
And based on what Ive seen so far, I think it couldve done better.
I can see MortgageKey did indicate when it first spoke to Mr D and Ms T that it thought the 
application would be completed in time, as per their requirements. But I also accept it could 
not guarantee this, as the application was subject to assessment by the lender. And if the 
lender required additional information, this could reasonably have caused the application not 
to be completed in time. This is what MortgageKey has said has ultimately happened, but 
based on the information Ive seen so far, Im not sure I agree that the length of time this 
application took was solely due to the lender requiring more information.
MortgageKey has been unable to provide copies of correspondence it sent to the lender 
during the application. It has said that these were not retained due to system constraints 
because the mortgage did not ultimately go ahead. While this is unfortunate, it has provided 
its internal notes on the application for us to consider.
Weve obtained information directly from the lender to assist with our investigation. It has 
been able to provide copies of emails it sent to MortgageKey during the application process, 
asking for information.
Mr D and Ms T have also provided us a timeline of events as they remember them. Theyve 
been consistent about the details of this timeline throughout their complaint. And I can see 
that emails theyve mentioned receiving from MortgageKey do seem to correspond to the 
notes it was able to provide. So, I dont have any reason to doubt the timeline Mr D and Ms T 
have provided.
Where information conflicts or there are discrepancies, I have to decide, on balance of 
probabilities, what I think is most likely to have happened.
Im not satisfied the notes from MortgageKey reflect all of the correspondence that took 
place. There are emails from the lender, that Ive seen copies of, and which appear to have 
been addressed correctly, which arent noted. And there appear to be no records of 
telephone conversations within the notes. Mr D and Ms T have been consistent in saying 
they made a number of phone calls for updates and as Ive said I have no reason to doubt 
what theyve said so on balance I believe they likely did chase via phone. While its record 
keeping process is a matter for MortgageKeys discretion, I felt it necessary to make this 
observation about the notes being incomplete, as it informs my findings.
Ive looked at all of this information provided by all three parties about the communication 
during the application process and the responses to the complaint.
The application appears to have been submitted to the lender around 18 January 2020. 
From the information Ive seen, it appears the lender was asking for a specific list of 
additional evidence and explanations in support of the application, shortly after this from 
around 27 January 2020. Lenders are entitled to ask for further information to support an 
application. Where that does happen, Id expect MortgageKey, the broker, to gather this 
information and respond promptly.
The request included asking for further information about some expenditure / commitments 
noted in the mortgage application submitted by MortgageKey as well as requests for additional proof of income and identification. I can see the lender also informed 
MortgageKey, on 27 January 2020, that an amendment would be needed to the application, 
before it could go ahead, as there was a discrepancy between the information recorded on 
the application and that contained in some of the identification documents that had been 
provided.
I can see that these same information requests were repeated regularly by the lender  at 
least eleven times, at regular intervals, between the end of January and the end of March 
2020. I think this indicates it likely hadnt received what it needed. I can also see that this 
information was still being requested by the lender a couple of months after the application 
had been withdrawn  suggesting it hadnt been notified the application wasnt proceeding.
And from the notes MortgageKey has provided and the timeline of events Mr D and Ms T 
have sent us, it looks like some of the information the lender had asked for, relating to salary 
and sick pay entitlements, wasnt actually requested from Mr D and Ms T until the end of 
February 2020. And indeed, it appears clarification of the information in the application about 
expenditure wasnt requested until the beginning of March 2020. Based on this, I do think 
MortgageKey has caused some delays and the service provided couldve been better.
Mr D and Ms T have said that they made a number of phone calls to request an update. The 
dates theyve said these calls were made on, fall in the period where it seems like 
MortgageKey was not progressing the application as promptly as it couldve done. Based on 
this I think it is likely Mr D and Ms T werent kept accurately updated during that period either 
 otherwise I think its likely the required information wouldve been obtained much sooner.
MortgageKey has said where it already holds information being asked for by the lender, it 
wont request this again. But if this information was held already by MortgageKey, Id have 
expected it to be sent to the lender promptly. MortgageKey hasnt been able to show it did, 
as copies of emails it sent arent available. And the fact that the lender continued to request 
this right up until the application was withdrawn, suggests to me on balance what it needed 
for matters to progress wasnt provided.
MortgageKey has also cited the impact of the pandemic and national restrictions as to why 
some requests took time. But I note that, while in close proximity to those events, this 
application, and the delays, largely took place before any restrictions were imposed.
Mr D and Ms T also raised issue with MortgageKey having made more than one application 
to the lender on their behalf. MortgageKey has said, where an amendment is required to an 
application, it can either make the relevant change or submit a new application, closing the 
previous one. And it says neither option takes longer.
As Ive said, I can see that the lender requested an amendment to the application at the end 
of January 2020. And that might well explain why a further application was made. But the 
information provided by the lender indicates that it continued to chase for information on both 
applications. And the emails it sent to MortgageKey on several occasions asked for 
confirmation which application was proceeding as they appeared to be duplicates. So, it 
appears MortageKeys actions here appear to have at least caused confusion. But it also 
looks like the same information was being asked for in respect of both applications by the 
lender. So not only has this approach caused confusion, it doesnt actually appear to have 
remedied the issues with the original application.
Taking all of this into account, based on what Ive seen so far, I think the service provided by 
MortgageKey as part of this application couldve been significantly better. So, Ive thought 
about what it should do to address this.For the reasons Ive already explained I dont think it would be reasonable to ask 
MortgageKey to cover the additional costs Mr D and Ms T have said theyve incurred. But I 
dont doubt that the poor service provided likely caused them distress. So, I think itd be fair 
for MortgageKey to pay them compensation in respect of the distress caused. And, taking 
account of the information provided by all of the parties, I think a payment of £300 would be 
fair and reasonable here.
Responses to my provisional decision
I gave both parties an opportunity to make further comments or send further information 
before I reached a final decision.
MortgageKey did not respond to my provisional findings by the deadline given.
Mr D and Ms T did not agree with my provisional findings. They said that they didnt think the 
recommended award was fair. They said it didnt reflect the loss caused to them by 
MortgageKeys actions. They provided extracts from the mortgage offer with their original 
lender that theyd gone ahead with to illustrate the loss theyd incurred. And they said, this 
loss notwithstanding, if theyd allowed their existing mortgage to move onto a reversion rate, 
theyd have still incurred additional costs which my award didnt cover.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D and Ms T have provided extracts from the mortgage offer that they agreed to with their 
original lender, to show how much extra they are paying each month  a loss that they say 
MortgageKey caused them to incur. Im conscious though that the information Ive been 
provided shows that the application they were making via MortgageKey was to borrow 
approximately £340,000 on an interest only basis at a fixed interest rate of 2.2%. The 
extracts form the mortgage offer theyve provided, which theyve said they took up with their 
existing lender, indicate the borrowing was at a fixed rate of 1.78%, a better rate, but the 
outstanding borrowing was in the region of £377,000 and that this was being taken on a 
repayment basis. So, the arrangements are not like for like and it was the decision to have 
more borrowing on a repayment basis that seems to have resulted in the additional cost.
In any event though, as I explained in my provisional findings, I think the decision to take up 
the mortgage deal with their existing lender was ultimately theirs. And I dont think, despite 
what Mr D and Ms T have said, that this was their only option. So, I dont think MortgageKey 
can fairly be held responsible for this.
Mr D and Ms T have said that the suggested award in my provisional findings does not cover 
the costs they would have incurred if theyd taken the alternative option that I mentioned  
allowing their existing mortgage to move onto a reversion rate while the application was 
completed. Their mortgage did not though move onto the reversion rate, they withdrew their 
application and took up the new deal before this happened. It isnt possible to know how long 
the mortgage might have been on the reversion rate if they had done this, so I cant say with 
certainty what this cost wouldve been. Mr D and Ms T have suggested it might have taken a 
further three months but there is no way of knowing this. And in any event, this isnt a loss 
that they incurred, its hypothetical. So, I cant fairly require MortgageKey to compensate 
them for this.
As Ive said in my provisional findings, I think the application couldve been handled better by 
MortgageKey. But while that is true, and I think it appears that it caused some delays, this doesnt mean that even without those delays that the application wouldve been completed 
by Mr D and Ms Ts preferred date. Had the requested information been provided to the 
lender more promptly, it may still have required further information on top of this, meaning 
that the application took longer. And a mortgage offer was not issued by the lender  so 
there is the possibility that the application could ultimately have been rejected anyway if the 
lender decided it didnt meet their lending criteria.
Taking all of this into account, while MortgageKey could have handled the application better, 
I still dont think it can reasonably be held accountable for the loss Mr D and Ms T say 
theyve incurred. I think it is right that MortgageKey makes a payment for the distress 
caused. But for the reasons set out above, I remain of the opinion that a payment of £300 for 
this would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mr D and Ms Ts complaint in part.
To put things right I direct OSL Financial Consultancy Limited, trading as MortgageKey to 
pay Mr D and Ms T £300 for the upset caused by its poor handling of their mortgage 
application.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman