DRN-2967894
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to process their chargeback. 
What happened
While on holiday in October 2018, Mr and Mrs S were approached and asked if they wanted 
to purchase a holiday accommodation product. They have explained that they were made to 
watch a presentation about how they could continue to go on holiday with the third-party 
company in the months that followed for a total of €6,827. Following this presentation, they 
were asked to pay a deposit of €1,706 which they did on their debit card. The remaining 
balance was due to be made a month later.  
Mr and Mrs S said when they got home, they realised the accommodation was only available 
in certain weeks of the year. They explained they were told it was a holiday product and that 
the price of the holidays would be cheaper than they could find elsewhere. They said they 
were also told there was no timeshare connection, but in fact all of this information was false. 
Because of this, and due to a family member falling ill, Mr and Mrs S decided they didnt 
want to go ahead with the agreement. 
They asked for their contract to be cancelled and for their deposit to be returned but heard 
nothing back from the third-party company. They didnt make the final payment, meaning the 
contract wasnt completed. 
In November 2019, Mr and Mrs S contacted Barclays to raise a chargeback for the deposit 
paid. They said that although 120 days had passed, they should be able to raise it under the 
rule that gave 540 days if the product or service was for future use. 
Barclays didnt respond, and so Mr and Mrs S wrote a number of additional letters, sending 
evidence to support their claim. While their letters had been sent recorded delivery and 
signed for, Mr and Mrs S didnt hear back from Barclays until they sent their final response 
letter in December 2020.  
In response to Mr and Mrs Ss complaint, Barclays explained they had raised the 
chargeback outside of the 120-day time limit meaning they couldnt proceed. In relation to 
the letters received but not responded to, Barclays apologised and awarded Mr and Mrs S 
£200 compensation. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Barclays had acted correctly. He explained the rules 
set out by VISA and why the 120 days applied to Mr and Mrs Ss claim. He said that as they 
hadnt made the final payment and had cancelled the agreement, they had no intention of 
using the holiday product and therefore couldnt rely on the 540 days. 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with our investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for the same reason. Ill 
explain why. 
By way of background, the Chargeback Scheme is operated by Visa to assist customers 
with disputed card transactions. The scheme is bound by strict rules and time guidelines set 
out by Visa which banks must follow and is an arbitrary service which relies on document-
based evidence.
With any chargeback, there is never a guarantee that the funds will be reimbursed as there 
are specific criteria that must be fulfilled. The Visa disputes and chargeback process is also 
a voluntary scheme with its own set of regulations operating independently to UK legislation.
The Visa Core rules and Visa Product and Service rules from April 2018 (the rules in place 
at the time of Mr and Mrs Ss chargeback request) say:
A Dispute must be processed within both:
120 days of either
- The transaction processing date
- The date the Cardholder received the merchandise or services
 The Dispute Processing date must be no later than 540 calendar days from the
Transaction Processing date.
In this case, I do appreciate that any holidays taken by Mr and Mrs S would have been taken 
in the future, had they made the full payment and secured the contract with the third party. 
However, Mr and Mrs S didnt make the final payment. They decided they no longer wanted 
to proceed with the agreement, and the contract was cancelled as they had no intention of 
ever using the holiday product in the future. 
Because of this, they were never going to receive the merchandise or services in the future, 
and so the 540-day rule cannot be applied. 
The part of the rule that applies here is the part that states Mr and Mrs S had 120 days from 
the transaction processing date in October 2018 to raise their chargeback claim. From what I 
can see, they raised the claim in November 2019, which was over a year later. 
So overall, Im unable to ask Barclays to proceed with the chargeback as I agree it was 
brought out of time. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, but I hope I 
have explained clearly enough why the 540-day rule doesnt apply here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman