DRN-2932572
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy about how Hoist Finance UK Limited (Hoist) responded to his settlement 
offer. 
What happened
In November 2020 Mr L wrote to Hoist regarding the debt that he owed. He made an offer to 
pay approximately £525 in order to clear his debt which totalled £1,855.90. He explained 
hed previously suffered with anxiety and depression and that hes sadly experienced a 
family bereavement. Although he was feeling better, he was now a student and not in 
employment but wanted to clear his debts and focus on his studies. He had £4,000 to repay 
his creditors and had made offers on a pro-rata basis. 
In December 2020 Mr L chased Hoist for an answer to his offer and spoke to an advisor 
online. The advisor explained the offer was declined it but made a counter offer of £927.95 
which they later explained could be repaid over six monthly instalments. Mr L was unhappy 
about this and wanted to raise a complaint. 
On 5 February 2021 Hoist issued a final response to Mr Ls complaint. They said the advisor 
hadnt acted unprofessionally. They added they werent under any obligation to accept a 
reduced settlement. They said they were willing to discuss this further over the phone as 
they were unable to do so by email, but Mr L declined this offer. Hoist asked Mr L to 
complete a further financial statement. Mr L was unhappy about this as he already provided 
a financial statement. He also said other creditors have accepted his offer so why cant 
Hoist. He feels Hoist hadnt fairly considered his circumstances including his mental health. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said under section 7.14 of the Consumer Credit Sourcebook, Hoist had to give due 
consideration to a reasonable offer of repayment, provide a clear explanation as to why a 
reasonable proposal was rejected and not take any steps likely to intimidate Mr L to increase 
the offer  making a counter offer does not count as intimidation. 
Our investigator said, it was up to Hoist to decide whether to accept an offer for reduced 
settlement of the debt and that the counter offer of 50% wasnt unreasonable. He said Mr Ls 
offer was checked by two managers but declined  and this was communicated clearly to Mr 
L during the online chat. 
Our investigator explained Hoists counter offer was a significant reduction of the debt owed 
so he didnt think Hoist had disregarded Mr Ls personal circumstances. He didnt think it 
was unreasonable Hoist requested another financial statement because Hoist had said if Mr 
L couldnt afford its counter offer then a repayment plan could be set up to reduce the debt.  
Mr L didnt agree. In summary he felt Hoist didnt take his circumstances into account. In 
addition to his earlier comments he said he was being asked to put his education at risk by 
being asked to use his student loan and that Hoist had dismissed his mental health pushing 
him to pay more than he could meaning he is stressed and not able to focus on his studies. 
He felt Hoist were bullying him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr L is anxious to be free of his debts as soon as possible so that he can 
focus on his studies and not have to worry about how much he owes. I also understand that 
he had a set amount of money (£4,000) which hed hoped would clear all of his debts. 
A business which owns a debt isnt required to accept a lesser sum than the amount owed. 
But I can see that Hoist did consider Mr Ls offer which is what Id expect to see in these 
circumstances. Hoist have explained Mr Ls offer was referred to two managers who both 
declined it. 
Ive seen copies of the online chat between Mr L and Hoists advisor and I can see it was 
clearly communicated to Mr L that his offer had been declined, and that this had gone 
through two managers. 
Hoist made a counter offer which was approximately 50% of the debt. They also explained 
that Mr L could repay this in monthly instalments if Mr L was unable to make this payment in 
one instalment. 
So based on what Ive seen I think Hoist responded positively to Mr L. I understand Mr L is 
disappointed his offer wasnt accepted. However, as Ive explained Hoist isnt obliged to 
accept partial settlement offers, and the decision whether to accept or decline any offer is a 
decision for Hoist.
During the online chat Mr L said he wanted to discuss his situation over email or via the 
online chat. Hoist said they couldnt discuss this by email due to their service level of five to 
ten working days and that they didnt deal with settlements via online chats. But Hoist did 
say they could speak to Mr L over the phone. Mr L declined the option of a phone call but I 
do think Hoist have demonstrated they tried to engage with Mr L to reach an outcome.
I appreciate phone may not have been Mr Ls preferred method of contact, but I dont think 
Hoists request was unreasonable especially given the nature of what needed to be 
discussed. Although this has been a difficult time for Mr L, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
that he couldnt speak to Hoist over the phone. 
Mr L has said hes unhappy he was asked to complete another financial statement. I can see 
he completed one around December 2020 time and was asked for another one in February 
2021 in Hoists final response letter. I can understand why Mr L would be frustrated at being 
asked to provide information hed supplied to hoist only a few months before. But I dont 
think Hoist need to do anything here as Mr L doesnt seem to have completed a new 
statement. And in any event, a fresh financial statement may have been helpful given this 
may form part of his discussion with Hoist to try and agree a way forward.
Mr L has said he feels Hoist are putting his education at risk by asking him to use his student 
loan to repay his debt. I can understand Mr L may feel this way because Hoist are asking 
him to pay more than he originally suggested, but from what Ive seen Hoist arent asking 
him to do this. Hoist are eager to get an agreement for a payment plan in pace to help Mr L 
reduce this debt and I would encourage Mr L to speak with Hoist to agree a way forward.Mr L also feels that Hoist have disregarded his mental health, but I dont think they have. 
The reason I say this is because they have engaged with his offer and two managers have 
considered it. Although theyve been unable to accept the offer, theyve put forward a 
counter offer which is 50% of the debt Mr L owes, and theyve offered for Mr L to repay this 
in instalments. 
Mr L has said other creditors have accepted his offers and has questioned why cant Hoist. 
But its up to each individual business to decide whether they accept a reduced offer. And it 
was up to Hoist to decide whether they wanted to accept the offer Mr L put forward. 
I know this complaint means a great deal to Mr L and hell be disappointed with my findings, 
but for the reasons Ive explained above I think Hoist have acted fairly and I dont think they 
need to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that Hoist Finance UK Limited do not need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2021.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman