DRN-3274530
The complaint
Mrs C says Oakam Ltd trading as Oakam irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about three loans that Oakam provided to Mrs C - heres a table setting out 
details: 
Loan Date taken Date 
paidTerm and 
typical 
weekly 
instalmentLoan 
amountHighest 
monthly 
repayment
1 8/11/2019 27/12/2019 26x£7.22 £100 £36.10
227/12/2019 11/2/2020 26x£21.21 £293.72 £106.05
3 11/2/2020 Sold to 
debt 
collector52x£30.82 £874.03 £154.10
When Mrs C complained to Oakam, it didnt agree it had done anything wrong. But, as a 
gesture of goodwill, it offered to refund interest on loan 3 as it said it may have been 
reasonable to have done better checks before providing this loan. Mrs C didnt feel this offer 
went far enough and so, through her representative, the complaint was referred to this 
Service. 
Im grateful to Mrs Cs representative for assisting with this complaint but to keep things 
simpler, as Mrs C was the borrower, Ill just refer to her from now on in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Mrs C disagreed. She mainly said that 
Oakam didnt check her finances properly at the beginning given that it could see the amount 
of defaults in her credit history and the fact she had a county court judgement (CCJ) on her 
record. 
As the complaint hasnt been settled it comes to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs C 
could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Cs complaint. 
Before lending to Mrs C, Oakam asked Mrs C for information about her financial situation, 
such as her monthly income and her outgoings and it obtained a credit report to gain an 
understanding of her credit history and see what she was currently paying for her existing 
credit commitments.
Ive looked at each loan in turn and thought about whether it was fair for Oakam to lend to 
Mrs C.
loan 1
When Mrs C took out her first loan, I think Oakam was reasonably entitled to rely on the 
information Mrs C provided. This suggested that she was able to afford this borrowing. 
Oakam recorded a figure for her monthly income that was around £1,280 and even allowing 
for all the regular expenses Mrs C had mentioned and the credit commitments it saw she 
was paying, Oakams affordability calculation showed that the loan repayments shed signed 
up to make should still be comfortably affordable for her. 
This was Mrs Cs first loan with Oakam, it was a relatively small amount for her to borrow 
and she didnt have any track record with the lender that mightve alerted Oakam to any 
currently ongoing underlying money problems. 
Ive taken carefully into account that Oakam was aware that Mrs C had a record of defaults 
outstanding as well as a CCJ. I dont think I can fairly say that Oakam should have declined 
Mrs Cs lending application on the strength of this information. Whilst the CCJ was a serious 
black mark on her credit file, it dated back almost two years. And the defaults, whilst 
concerning, werent enough in my view to have prompted a responsible lender to have 
declined this loan application. These also dated back a number of years and I can 
understand why Oakam might reasonably have thought that taking more active steps to 
repay these might not have been a spending priority for Mrs C if they werent a particular 
problem for her.
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing or an impaired credit record  and these things wouldnt necessarily be 
reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan application. 
Taking things as a whole, I think it would have been reasonable for Oakam to consider that 
the monthly repayments on its loan were affordable for Mrs C  allowing for the amount it 
had seen she had to pay each month towards her existing creditors, and what shed 
declared as her income and general living expenses.
So Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint about loan 1.loan 2
The following month Mrs C applied to Oakam to borrow a larger loan. The loan purpose 
wasnt recorded but it was used to clear the balance on loan 1 and I dont think it was 
unreasonable to think that a borrower might need some extra money over Christmas. This 
wasnt an especially large loan compared to the amount of Mrs Cs take home pay and what 
Oakam understood about her finances generally  which were broadly unchanged from 
when she took out loan 1.
Given the repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mrs Cs circumstances and her 
borrowing history at that time with Oakam, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for 
Oakam to ask Mrs C for the amount of information that would be needed to show the lending 
was unsustainable before agreeing this loan. 
I appreciate that Mrs C feels strongly that Oakam didnt do enough when checking her 
finances. But I cant see that there was anything in the information she provided, or the 
information Oakam had gathered about her financial situation, which meant that Oakam 
shouldve taken steps to enquire further into her finances or do more to check the 
information Mrs C had declared  or not lent to her at all. 
So I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint about loan 2.
loan 3
I agree with our adjudicator that Oakam ought to have done more in-depth checks before 
providing loan 3. Oakam expected Mrs C would be paying loan 3 for 12 months and it was 
aware that she had by this time been paying Oakam loans for twelve months in a row and 
she was now applying to borrow a significantly larger loan. So I think Oakam ought to have 
have taken steps to verify what Mrs C was saying about her financial circumstances to make 
sure it properly understood her financial situation before agreeing this loan. Oakam hasnt 
shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before 
agreeing to lend to Mrs C. 
But that isnt enough of a reason on its own for me to be able to uphold this complaint. 
Despite our adjudicator asking for more information, Ive seen nothing and havent been 
provided with any information to suggest that further checks to verify what Mrs C was saying 
wouldve shown that loan 3 wasnt sustainably affordable for her. 
And I cant see that Mrs C gave Oakam any indication that her finances were causing her 
serious money problems during her application for loan 3.  
Im very sorry that Mrs C found repaying the loans difficult. And I accept that in reality her 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information she provided, or the 
other information Oakam obtained. 
But in order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say that Mrs C lost out as a result of 
something that Oakam did wrong. And I dont think thats the case here. I say this because 
even if Oakam had done proportionate checks, I havent seen enough to show that it 
shouldve realised that loan 3 was likely to be unsustainable for her. So I cant fairly and 
reasonably uphold Mrs Cs complaint about loan 3. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mrs C. But I hope my explanations help explain why Ive reached my 
decision. If Mrs C would like help to manage her finances theres more information about 
how to get free debt advice and other support on our website  or we can provide contact details if she gives us a call. Mrs C may still wish to approach Oakam directly about the offer 
it made in its final response letter sent in July 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman