DRN-1831992
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with how Kindertons Ltd dealt with his car repair claim following a road 
traffic accident. 
What happened
Mr B was driving on a roundabout when he had a collision with another car. Mr B says the 
other driver was clearly out of control at the time of the impact. And because of this he 
believes the other driver was wholly liable for causing the accident.
The other driver left the scene without giving any details, and Mr B had to get their details 
from the police  there was CCTV footage of the general area where the accident happened 
and, from the details Mr B gave them, the police were able to trace the other driver.
Kindertons were instructed to manage the claim for Mr B. As an accident management 
company they usually deal with non-fault claims. But the other driver disputed causing the 
accident and the claim was eventually transferred to the underwriters and solicitors to 
resolve the liability dispute. Mr B is only insured third party, so his insurance wont cover the 
damage to his car if hes found to be partly or wholly liable for the accident.
Mr B has complained that Kindertons didnt get any CCTV footage of the accident, which 
meant that liability couldnt be confirmed. Kindertons have acknowledged they didnt request 
this early enough in the process, and when they did ask for it, it was too late. They offered 
Mr B £200 compensation for this error. He didnt accept this and brought his complaint to the 
Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) for us to investigate.
Our investigator said that, while CCTV cameras covered the general area where the 
accident took place, they didnt cover every part of the roundabout. So she couldnt say for 
certain that any CCTV footage wouldve shown the collision itself. So she thought Kindertons 
offer was reasonable and she didnt think they should do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He says the police were able to identify the other 
driver from CCTV footage and he believes theres a strong likelihood that this same footage 
wouldve been able to confirm liability. So hed like Kindertons to pay him a minimum of £425 
to cover the cost of repairs to his car. But he says this amount doesnt reflect the financial 
repercussions that I will face when I come to renew my insurance or the toll this has taken 
on my wellbeing. So hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and while I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment for Mr B; Ive reached the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, I want to recognise the upset caused to Mr B. Being involved in an accident, 
especially where you feel you werent at fault, can be both frustrating and stressful. But, for 
me to agree that Kindertons should pay for the damage to Mr Bs car, Id need to be satisfied 
that the CCTV wouldve shown that the other driver was fully liable for causing the accident. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Kindertons have accepted that Mr B told them, on 23 January 2019, that there was CCTV 
footage of the roundabout. But they didnt follow this up until 14 February, by which time any 
footage was no longer available. While the CCTV footage was sufficient to show the police 
the car Mr B described as being on the roundabout at the time he said it was; I have to 
consider whether the CCTV footage wouldve also shown the exact point on the roundabout 
where the accident took place, and if it had the correct angle to see enough of the collision to 
determine liability.
The other driver was disputing liability, and their insurance company needed the CCTV 
footage for the same reason as Mr B. Kindertons case notes show that the other drivers 
insurance company tried to get CCTV footage of the accident itself, but it wasnt available.
The insurance company havent said why the CCTV wasnt available. Itd be unfortunate if 
everybody on both sides left it too late to request the CCTV, and I think this circumstance is 
unlikely. In her view the investigator explained the positioning of the CCTV cameras, and 
how it was more likely than not that the single camera on the island wouldnt have captured 
footage that wouldve been sufficient to confirm liability. 
Because of the positioning of the cameras and the other drivers insurance companys 
inability to obtain any CCTV footage that confirmed liability; I agree that, if Kindertons had 
obtained CCTV footage, its not possible to say for certain whether this wouldve shown that 
the other driver was wholly liable for the accident or not. So I wont be asking to Kindertons 
to cover the repair costs for Mr Bs car.
I recognise that not being able to see the CCTV footage will always leave Mr B wondering 
what if? And I agree that Kindertons should compensate him for the fact hell never know. 
But there are other frustrations and stresses that comes from being in an accident, and 
those would always be there even if CCTV footage had been available. And it wouldnt be 
fair for me to ask Kindertons to compensate Mr B for this, as they werent the cause. Nor can 
I hold them responsible for how any insurance company may consider a disputed liability 
accident, and how this may affect any future premiums.
So I think that the £200 Kindertons have offered Mr B is sufficient for the inconvenience and 
frustration caused by them not requesting the CCTV footage earlier. Its now for Mr B to 
decide whether to accept this offer or not.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Kindertons Ltd. 
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman