DRN-3780202
The complaint
Mr A complains about the handling of his payment holidays and calculation of arrears; and 
the impact its had on his credit file. Mr As complaint relates to a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn). 
What happened
In April 2018 Mr A acquired a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The purchase price of the car was £20,800 and the monthly repayments on his 
agreement were £645.08 payable over 59 months.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were set out in detail in the
investigators opinion of July 2022, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus
on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
From the information provided, Ive identified the following areas as being Mr As main 
complaint points, which Ill address below:
Poor communication from Moneybarn
Moneybarn recorded incorrect information on his credit file
Moneybarn added interest to his payment holiday
Moneybarn didnt honour the agreed repayment plan
Moneybarn incorrectly calculated the arrears 
Moneybarn provided contradicting information 
Communication
On his complaint form, Mr A referenced the issues he was experiencing with Moneybarns 
communication. For example, Mr A mentioned that he felt they ignored his concerns and that 
he found it impossible to email them. In his email to our investigator in August 2022 Mr A 
also outlined various instances where he believed Moneybarn had failed to communicate 
with him adequately. 
I acknowledge Mr A has made around four complaints to Moneybarn. In their final response 
to Mr A, dated 17 August 2021, Moneybarn said that they considered Mr As previous 
complaints as part of that final response. So, Ive referred to this response throughout my 
decision. In their response Moneybarn refers to instances where their contact wasnt at the 
required level; and I acknowledge Mr A highlighted some of these issues in his email to our 
investigator dated 2 August 2022. Moneybarn have acknowledged failing to make some call 
backs and responses on time. Moneybarn has apologised and paid Mr A compensation in 
recognition of it.
Overall, Im satisfied that Moneybarn have acted fairly in relation to Mr As concerns about 
their communication and have fairly compensated him for this. 
I acknowledge Mr A may feel Moneybarns communication has fallen short on other 
occasions not referred to in their final response, for example when Mr A refers to complaints 
he raised with them. However, complaint handling isnt a regulated activity in its own right. 
Nor is it one of the specified non-regulated activities that Im able to deal with under our 
compulsory jurisdiction (DISP Rule 2.3.1R). And so, Im unable to look into the specifics of 
these events.
Credit file
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says that lenders who supply information to 
the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) are required to ensure the data is accurate and up to 
date.  
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) says that arrears relating to payment holidays 
resulting from Covid-19 shouldnt be recorded negatively on a consumers credit file. 
Moneybarn said in their final response that any negative markers applied relating to payment 
breaks were to be removed. I havent seen any evidence that this hasnt been done, that Mr 
A has been affected by it or that any further information reported by Moneybarn to the CRAs 
is incorrect or negative in relation to his payment holidays. So, Im not persuaded that the 
information recorded with the CRAs, about Mr As finance agreement with Moneybarn is 
incorrect. 
Mr A has sent in images of a credit report to our investigator, however the images provided 
doesnt confirm certain key information, for example the account holder or creditor. So, Ive 
not considered this information.
Added interest to the payment holiday
In April 2020, the FCA published temporary guidance for businesses in relation to motor 
finance agreements. The guidance was applicable in the exceptional circumstances arising 
out of the Covid-19 pandemic and the impact it had on motor finance consumers. 
In relation to payment deferrals the guidance said that businesses should grant consumers a 
payment deferral for three months where they are experiencing or expected to experience 
temporary payment difficulties as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
The guidance also says that a customer shouldnt have to pay any charge or fee in 
connection with the permitting of a payment deferral, however it also says: The continuing accrual of interest on sums owed under the agreement that remain unpaid would not be 
inconsistent with this guidance. 
From the information provided Im persuaded Moneybarn have acted fairly. Ive not seen any 
evidence that Moneybarn have added any additional fees or charges when setting up the 
payment deferral, however under the guidance, the accrual of interest on the amounts 
owning is fair in the circumstances.
Arrears, repayment plan and conflicting information
Following Mr As request, Moneybarn granted him with a payment holiday for April to June of 
2020, and a further payment holiday covering August to October of 2020. In consideration of 
the impact the Covid-19 pandemic had on Mr As financial situation and the FCA guidance in 
relation to payment holidays and Covid-19, Im satisfied that Moneybarn acted fairly in doing 
so.
I can see from the information provided which includes a statement of Mr As agreement, Mr 
A was in arrears following the payment holiday and started making token payments of £150 
from May until September of 2021. Im satisfied Moneybarn acted fairly by showing Mr A 
some flexibility and consideration in making his repayments.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found within the FCA handbook, 
says that a business must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance 
and due consideration. CONC 7.3.5 provides some examples which include, suspending, 
reducing or waiving interest or charges, allowing payment deferrals or accepting token 
payments. 
Mr A says Moneybarn incorrectly calculated the arrears. However, Mr A hasnt explained 
how the arrears have been incorrect and I havent seen any evidence that the statement 
provided wasnt accurate. So, Im satisfied the arrears are correct as per the information 
provided.
In addition to this Moneybarn have been issuing correspondence to notify Mr A about his 
arrears. For example, Moneybarn have sent to Mr A, a notice of sums in arrears letter in 
October 2020 and again in March 2021, a default notice in September 2021 and a recovery 
notice in November 2021. Mr A said he found some of their information conflicting. In his 
complaint Mr A refers to receiving correspondence contrary to what hed agreed with them 
over the phone. 
The FCA rules say that firms must provide customers with information on the amount of any 
arrears and the balance owing. So, although I can appreciate there may have been 
circumstances where certain correspondence may have been different to, or inconsistent 
with what Mr A would have agreed whilst talking with Moneybarn on the phone, as 
Moneybarn had a duty to provide certain arrears information, Im persuaded that Moneybarn 
were acting fairly when they issued arrears correspondence to Mr A. 
In October 2021, Mr A resumed his original payment of £645.08 and in November 2021 
made a payment of £648, followed by a further payment of £1,709.51 in the same month. In 
his email to our investigator Mr A says an agreement he entered into with Moneybarn should 
have negated the repossession of his car. Mr A refers to this as an arrangement for a 
consent order.
Having reviewed Moneybarns system notes I can see an entry in November 2021 where its 
recorded that Mr A was looking to complete a consent order, which involved him making a 
25% payment, and complete an income and expenditure to support it. I can see Mr A made the payment as Ive detailed above. However, Moneybarn told us that in order for the 
consent order to be actioned an income and expenditure would be needed. And although Mr 
A made the required payments, Moneybarn said they didnt receive Mr As income and 
expenditure. 
A consent order is a formal way of setting out financial arrangements between two parties, 
and which normally requires approval by a court. Moneybarn have confirmed to us there is 
no court action on Mr As agreement. So, from the information provided, although I think Mr 
A had an intention to enter into a consent order, Im persuaded that the action wasnt 
completed. Most likely as Moneybarn wasnt in receipt of Mr As income and expenditure. 
I acknowledge Mr A believed the arrangement would override any repossession action, 
however as the arrangement was never formalised in the form of a consent order, Im 
satisfied that Moneybarn were acting fairly by continuing their action to support Mr A with 
repaying the outstanding balance of the agreement. 
In addition, I can see that the payments made by Mr A were treated as additional payments 
and further reduced the outstanding balance.
All things considered Im not persuaded that Moneybarn have acted unfairly in the 
circumstances, and so I wont be instructing them to do anything more in relation to this 
complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances I dont uphold Mr As complaint against Moneybarn No.1 Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman