DRN-3386277
The complaint
Mrs M has complained (on behalf of Miss M and Mr M) that Inter Partner Assistance SA 
(IPA) caused unnecessary damage to Miss Ms and Mr Ms home when dealing with a 
claim on their home emergency policy.
What happened
In mid-2021, Miss M and Mr M noticed water dripping from their ceiling, directly below their 
bathroom.  They had home emergency cover with IPA.  So they called IPA to have someone 
come out to fix the problem.
An engineer came at about 9pm the same day.  He made a hole in the ceiling and removed 
the bath panel to try and see where the water was coming from when the bathroom facilities 
were used.  But he couldnt see the source of the leak  so it wasnt fixed.  Two days later 
the engineer returned.  He made the hole in the ceiling larger but still couldnt trace it.
Three days later, Mr M received a call from an engineer who thought he knew the cause and 
said he would come and make the repair the following day.  He came to the property but left 
without attempting the repair after Mrs M questioned him about whether it would cause 
further damage.
After this, Miss M and Mr M spoke to a plumber they knew about the problem.  He was able 
to stop the leak.  He didnt charge Miss M and Mr M for what hed done.
Mrs M complained to IPA on behalf of Miss M and Mr M about the damage their engineers 
had done to the property to try and trace the problem.  She said the work was unnecessary 
but had caused about £850 worth of damage.  And Miss M and Mr M had been caused 
stress by the number of unsuccessful visits and having to chase IPA by phone.  She asked 
IPA to reimburse the costs of repairs.
IPA investigated the complaint.  They said the policy didnt cover the cost either of 
permanent repair or making good any damage caused by trying to trace the leak.  And, in 
the absence of any report from the plumber who fixed the problem (which Miss M and Mr M 
couldnt obtain) they couldnt agree what the engineer had done was unnecessary.
But IPA did recognise theyd caused stress and inconvenience to Miss M and Mr M because 
the repeated visits to their home failed to fix the problems and failures in customer service.  
They paid Miss M and Mr M £200 compensation for this.
Miss M and Mr M werent satisfied with this resolution and Mrs M brought the complaint to us 
on their behalf.  Our investigator considered it and concluded IPA didnt need to do anything 
more to resolve it.  
She noted the policy doesnt provide cover for making good any damage to the property 
caused by an engineer trying to make an emergency repair and, without any evidence to 
support the position, she couldnt say the engineers efforts to identify the problem were 
unreasonable.  And she agreed IPAs customer service could have been better.  But she 
thought £200 was a reasonable sum to compensate Miss M and Mr M for this.
Miss M and Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Ms and Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand its upsetting  and can be expensive - to have a problem that results in 
damage to your home.  Its one of the reasons people buy insurance.   But policies dont 
cover every eventuality.  So, when we receive an insurance complaint, we look at the policy 
wording to see what is covered and whether the insurer has applied the terms fairly.
In this case, the policy states that it will cover:
Call out charges, labour and parts or materials for immediate repairs to stabilise and 
remove the emergency.
But that cover doesnt extend to:
The cost of effecting permanent repairs once the immediate emergency situation has been
resolved, including any redecoration or making good the structure, fixtures and fittings of 
your home.
I think both those clauses are clear.  And I can see Mrs M acknowledged that Miss M and  
Mr M arent covered for damage a contractor causes to put things right.  Her argument is 
that the damage the contractors caused didnt fix the problem so wasnt necessary.
Ive thought about this.  I appreciate the issue was eventually identified without using the 
holes which were made.  But Im not an expert.  So I cant say it was unreasonable of the 
contractors to make the holes or remove the bath panel to try and trace the source of the 
leak  even though it didnt ultimately assist.
And, on the basis that was reasonable, I think it was fair of IPA to apply the policy terms  
which say they wont be responsible for any repairs or making good the damage caused by 
trying to trace the leak.
Finally Ive thought about the compensation IPA have paid Miss M and Mr M.  I agree from 
what Ive seen that IPA didnt give Miss M and Mr M clear information about when engineers 
would be attending, left them expecting engineers who didnt arrive and on one occasion had 
two contractors attend on the same day.  
Its right that IPA should have compensated them for those failings.  But I think the £200 
compensation IPA have paid Miss M and Mr M for those failings is reasonable.  So they 
dont need to do any more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ms and Mr Ms complaint about Inter 
Partner Assistance SA.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman