DRN-2564583
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Metro Bank PLC closed her account and wont release her funds. And 
shed like the money returned. 
What happened
Mrs S had a current account and a savings account with Metro. 
On the 4 April 2019 Metro received notification from another bank that Mrs S received 
fraudulent credits into her account. They restricted Mrs Ss access and sent her a notice to 
close letter advising Mrs S her accounts would be closing within 7 days.
On the 11 April 2019 Mrs Ss accounts were closed. At the time Mrs Ss accounts held 
£14,589 which wasnt returned to her. 
Metro asked Mrs S for proof of entitlement to the funds. Mrs S explained that shed lent 
money to friends to set up a business and theyd paid her back in cash. Metro asked Mrs S 
for proof of this but no evidence was provided. 
Mrs S complained to Metro. But they didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. In summary Metro said 
theyd followed the terms and conditions of the account  specifically 11.2  and as per their 
policy customers may sometimes be asked to provide the bank with documents supporting 
payments coming in or out of their account. 
Mrs S didnt accept Metros conclusion so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs Ss complaint. Metro explained that theyd received 
an indemnity in November 2020 for some of the funds, but theyd not received any claims 
from sending banks for £7,589.92. So on the 11 November 2020 the bank agreed to release 
the £7,589.92 to Mrs S. Mrs S attempted to withdraw the funds in branch, however she 
wasnt able to obtain them until the 1 December 2020. 
Our investigator concluded that Metro acted fairly in closing Mrs Ss accounts, and initially 
restricting access to Mrs Ss funds. She thought Metro had acted fairly in returning the other 
funds to source  but thought that the bank could have released her funds sooner. Therefore 
she recommended that Metro pay Mrs S 8% interest on the returned funds from the date the 
account was closed to the date of settlement. 
Metro didnt accept our investigators view. They explained that the delay was a result of the 
bank needing to investigate Mrs Ss entitlement to the funds. And thats why they couldnt 
release the funds sooner. 
As Metro didnt accept our investigators view, so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I reached the same conclusion as our investigator for similar reasons. And 
Ill explain why below. 
Account closure:
Firstly Ive considered whether Metro acted fairly in closing Mrs Ss account. Ive looked at 
the terms and conditions of her accounts and Im satisfied they did. Section 11.2 of Metros 
terms and conditions outlines that the bank can close any customers account by providing 
2 months notice and in certain circumstances they can close an account immediately. Metro 
provided Mrs S with 7 days notice of the closure of her accounts, less than the standard 
2 months. For Metro to act fairly here they need to meet the criteria to apply their terms for 
immediate closure  and having looked at these terms Im satisfied theyve applied these 
fairly. 
Release of funds:
Ive thought about whether Metro have acted fairly in only releasing £7,589.92 and returning 
the remaining funds to source. Ive listened to the phone call Mrs S had with Metro after 
learning that her account had been closed. The member of staff asked Mrs S what the 
recent payments into her account  totalling £15,300  were for. Mrs S explained it was 
money shed received back from friends in return for business loans. The advisor asked 
Mrs S for proof of this  but this wasnt provided. On contacting our service Mrs S was asked 
by our investigator what the payments were for and to provide proof of entitlement to the 
funds. Mrs S provided two different explanations to that given over the phone to Metro. 
Specifically that shed saved the money in her house through wages from her ownership of a 
newsagents and more recently that shed been given the funds via the Ministry of Justice 
following a Payment Protection Insurance claim. Despite being asked for evidence for all 
three explanations Mrs S hasnt provided any documents to the bank or our service. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mrs S, but Im satisfied that shes been provided with a 
number of opportunities to demonstrate her entitlement to the outstanding funds. Despite 
this, Mrs S hasnt provided any evidence to the bank or our service. Without this evidence 
Im unable to ask Metro to pay Mrs S the remaining balance of her account. Or conclude the 
bank has acted unfairly in returning these funds to source. 
However, Ive moved on to consider Metros actions in withholding the release of the 
£7,589.92 to Mrs S. The bank have argued that they didnt release Mrs Ss funds sooner 
because they needed to investigate whether Mrs S was entitled to the funds. I appreciate 
Metros argument that some investigation was required here  but Im afraid I dont agree 
that the length of time Metro took to release Mrs Ss funds was reasonable. I think Metro 
could have done more to determine if Mrs S was entitled to the funds  for example 
contacting the sending banks to confirm if an indemnity for the funds would be provided and 
if so when. And in doing so established that Mrs S was entitled to some of the funds and 
released them more quickly.  
Im satisfied that Metro should have released Mrs Ss funds sooner  and in doing so they 
deprived her of the use of these funds. And the bank should therefore pay 8% interest on the 
funds from the date of the account closure to the date they were released.  
Putting things right
I direct Metro Bank PLC to:Pay 8% interest on the released funds of £7,589.92 from the 11 April 2019 to the 
1 December 20201. 
1 If Metro is legally required to deduct tax from the interest they should send Mrs S a tax 
deduction certificate so she can claim it back from HMRC as appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is I partly uphold Mrs Ss complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to carry out 
the actions set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman