DRN-3804259
The complaint
Ms V complains that payments she tried to make with her Lloyds Bank PLC credit card and 
debit card were declined. 
What happened
Last year, Ms V tried to make a payment with her credit card but it was declined. Ms V then 
tried to use her debit card but that was also declined. Ms Vs explained that, as a result, her 
husband had to come and complete the transaction. 
Ms V contacted Lloyds and complained. Lloyds advised that both the credit card and debit 
card Ms V tried to use had been replaced. Lloyds arranged for new cards to be sent to Ms V 
and went on to pay her £20 for the inconvenience caused. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms Vs complaint. They thought Lloyds had dealt 
with Ms Vs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms V asked to appeal and 
said she doesnt recall being sent replacement cards by Lloyds or reporting either as 
damaged. Ms V also said that when she called Lloyds to find out why her cards were 
declined its agents were unable to explain what had happened. As Ms V asked to appeal, 
her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has explained that both the credit card and debit card Ms V had with her when she 
tried to make a payment had been previously replaced. Weve asked Lloyds to supply 
evidence to confirm what its told us. 
Lloyds has sent us systems evidence that says the debit card was reported as damaged by 
Ms V in July 2020. As a result, Lloyds says it issued a replacement debit card that had the 
same card number. The systems evidence provided does verify that Lloyds recorded the 
debit card as damaged and sent a replacement to Ms V.
Lloyds has also sent systems information that shows the credit card was replaced in June 
2021. Ms V has pointed out her existing credit card hadnt expired at this point. Weve been 
back to Lloyds and asked it to explain exactly why the credit card was replaced. 
Unfortunately, Lloyds doesnt have a record of why it reissued the credit card in June 2021. 
I understand Ms V doesnt recall receiving replacement cards from Lloyds. But Im satisfied 
the systems information shows both cards were replaced by Lloyds and sent to Ms V as 
claimed. 
Ms V queried why she was able to continue using the cards despite replacements being 
issued. Lloyds has confirmed that unless a card is reported as lost or stolen, the card details 
remain the same. As a result, Ms V was still able to make payments using the information on 
her credit card and debit card when the physical cards werent required  like when making 
purchases online. Ive looked at Ms Vs credit card and current account statements and they 
dont show regular use of either card to make payments regularly. And the card payments 
recorded appear to be in relation to online transactions. 
Ms Vs told us Lloyds was unable to explain why her cards werent working when she 
contacted it and complained. Ms Vs also explained that she found the declined payments 
embarrassing and that her husband had to pay on her behalf. I do understand why Ms V is 
upset and that having her cards unexpectedly declined was distressing. But, as Ive set out 
above, Im satisfied Lloyds issued replacement debit and credit cards to Ms V. And I note 
Lloyds went on to agree compensation of £20 for the inconvenience caused. In my view, 
Lloyds has already agreed a settlement that fairly reflects the service provided and the level 
of distress and inconvenience cause. As Im satisfied Lloyds has already agreed a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances Im not telling it to increase the 
award or take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed a settlement that is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman