DRN-4082681
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) is sending him threatening letters saying it 
is going to close his account.
What happened
Mr L holds an account with HSBC. There is no overdraft facility on the account but at times 
Mr Ls account becomes overdrawn when he makes transactions for more money than he 
holds in the account. Or alternatively HSBC declines the transaction. 
When Mr Ls account becomes overdrawn or HSBC declines a payment HSBC writes to him 
about this and charges are applied to his account for the returned payment or overdrawn 
position of the account. 
Mr L complained about this to HSBC. Mr L wants a full refund of all charges. HSBC says Mr 
L doesnt meet its lending criteria, so it wont agree any formal lending for him such as an 
arranged overdraft. On occasion HSBC has refunded charges (in the past five years it has 
refunded £524 in fees) but going forward it cant continue to do this  managing spending is 
Mr Ls responsibility.  
HSBC says that it is trying to support Mr L in managing his finances better by encouraging 
him to get in contact with debt advice services and providing him with correspondence tools 
 such as obtaining his available balance through telephone, online or ATM before 
withdrawing funds or using his debit card. 
Mr L was dis-satisfied with this and so brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Ls concerns and reached the conclusion that HSBC hadnt done 
anything wrong. They didnt think there were any signs of financial difficulty from Mr Ls 
account statements and HSBC are entitled to charge for the banking services it provides. 
Mr L disagreed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mr L has experienced and see if HSBC has done anything 
wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mr L back in the position they wouldve 
been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation that I think 
is fair and reasonable.
I can see in some of Mr Ls correspondence he has referred to the proportionality of charges 
applied to his account by HSBC. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that 
I havent considered whether the various amounts HSBC have charged were fair and 
reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And the same applies to a banks lending criteria  I 
cant tell a bank how much or who it can lend to. 
All I can decide is if I think HSBC has treated Mr L fairly  and I think it has. Mr L complains 
that he has been receiving threatening letters from HSBC that it was going to close his 
account. Having reviewed some of the letters HSBC has sent Mr L, I can see that the letters 
are sent in response to how he has managed his account. 
The letters Ive seen do not say HSBC is going to close Mr Ls account. The letters are 
notifying him that his account didnt hold enough money for the payments Mr L wanted to 
make and that HSBC was not willing to agree lending (in the form of an unarranged 
overdraft) to meet these payments. So I cant say HSBC has done anything wrong here.
I understand HSBC has applied charges to Mr Ls account when it has become overdrawn or 
when payments have been returned. But as I have stated above what HSBC charges for its 
services is a commercial decision and not something for me to get involved with. 
However, in saying that I can see over the years a good proportion of these charges have 
been refunded by HSBC, but Mr L continues to make transactions on his account when he 
doesnt have enough money to meet these payments. 
HSBC is trying to support Mr L in managing his account by encouraging him to use the tools 
available to understand how much money he has available to him before he makes a 
transaction and avoid charges going forward. Which I think is fair  HSBC cant continue to 
refund Mr L all correctly applied charges and it is under no obligation to lend to him when he 
doesnt meet its lending criteria. Indeed, it would be irresponsible to do so based on the 
recent history of how he has managed his account.
So it follows I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint as I dont think HSBC has done anything wrong 
or treated Mr L unfairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman