DRN-3915918
The complaint
Mr V complains about pension advice provided by Charles Stanley & Co Ltd (CS).
What happened
The events that occurred arent disputed by either party. So, Ill only briefly summarise here 
insofar as setting out the basic relevant facts. 
Mr V met with CS in 2020. Mr V paid CS to complete a calculation to provide him with a 
carry forward figure  how much he could contribute for that tax year including previous 
years carry forward allowances. Following this, Mr V wished to review his group personal 
pension (GPP). He wanted to invest a further lump sum and look at his investment fund 
options. 
In January 2021, CS provided Mr V with a report that confirmed the amount Mr V could pay 
into his GPP, including taking advantage of the available carry forward allowance from the 
previous three tax years, to make as much contribution as he could to his pension. Mr V also 
sought a recommendation as to how the pension should be invested. This was based on 
information provided by Mr V including payslips and P60s. Mr V paid a one-off fee for this 
advice and no ongoing advice arrangement was agreed. 
Shortly after receiving this report, Mr V instructed his employer to increase his pension 
contribution via salary sacrifice for the month of March 2021. Mr V believed this wouldnt 
affect his annual allowance as it wouldnt be paid into his pension until April  the new tax 
year. Mr V told CS of his plans and it confirmed he could proceed with investing the lump 
sum as per the original advice.
However, whilst the salary sacrifice wasnt paid into Mr Vs pension until April 2021, it was 
taken from Mr Vs salary in March 2021, and this had the effect of reducing his annual salary 
for the tax year 2020 / 2021. This in turn reduced the total amount he could pay into his 
pension for that tax year. Mr V went on to pay the lump sum he was told he could by CS in to 
his GPP in March 2021, but this meant he ended up exceeding his annual allowance. 
Mr V complained to CS. He asked it to do a number of things in response to his complaint, 
including refunding all advice fees and deductions from his pension taken by CS as well as 
paying any fines or tax charges levied by HMRC. 
CS responded to Mr Vs complaint. It said, in summary, Mr V had only paid a fee for advice 
at a single point in time, not an ongoing service. CS said that the figure provided for carry 
forward tax relief was based on information provided by Mr V at the time and was correct. It 
couldnt be held responsible if the information the advice was based upon had changed.  
Unhappy with this response, Mr V referred the complaint to us where one of our 
Investigators looked into it. Our Investigator thought CS had missed a chance to correct 
Mr Vs understanding and explain to him the affect that increasing his contribution via his 
employer would have on his income and therefore his annual allowance. She noted that CS 
had revised its calculations in March 2021 but hadnt taken into account what Mr V had said 
regarding his additional salary sacrifice contribution. Our Investigator set out how CS should 
put right the loss caused by the overpayment being made into his pension. She also noted 
that CS wouldve charged around £1,500 plus VAT to complete the contribution calculation. 
So, she thought it fair that CS refund half of this amount (a total of £900). The Investigator 
also recommended CS pay £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter had caused and make a payment equivalent to 30% of the amount that had been 
overpaid to Mr Vs pension.
CS accepted that some of its communication with regards to the impact of salary sacrifice on 
relevant earnings could potentially be mis-leading. CS suggested it contact the pension 
provider to see if the excess pension contribution could be unwound  that is the amount 
paid by Mr V returned to him and the tax relief returned to HMRC. It agreed to pay £900 as a 
partial refund of the advice fee Mr V paid. And it said it would offer Mr V £400 for the trouble 
and inconvenience this matter had caused. CS also said that if Mr V wasnt able to have the 
overpaid amount of £2,519 repaid, it would offer Mr V 30% of this as suggested by our 
Investigator.  
Mr V declined this and said he would accept a refund of £1,500 plus VAT in respect of the 
advice fee paid, £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter had 
caused and 30% of the overpaid amount paid into his pension or the overpaid amount 
returned to him. 
CS attempted to speak to the pension provider but didnt have authority to act on Mr Vs 
behalf. Our Investigator asked Mr V to contact the provider himself.  Mr V did so and 
confirmed that the provider will return the overpaid amount to him with the tax relief being 
returned to HMRC. Mr V confirmed that he still wished to have the complaint be reviewed by 
an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr V has submitted his complaint to us in great detail. And hes said he requires 
answers to a number of questions hes posed, including specifics on who was at fault for 
various issues. I want to reassure Mr V that Ive read and considered everything hes said. If 
I dont mention or go into detail about certain points, thats not because Ive ignored it. This 
simply reflects the informal nature of our Service as an alternative to a court. My role is to 
consider whether a financial loss has been incurred as a result of actions or a mistake by 
CS. And, if it has, to put right that loss. So, Im going to focus on what I consider is the crux 
of this complaint  the incorrect figure for the carry forward allowance provided to Mr V.
Its clear from correspondence between Mr V and CS that Mr V was reluctant to spend more 
on advice than was absolutely necessary. And I think its clear that, following the advice 
given in January 2021, there was no further agreement for advice to be provided. I have 
noted Mr Vs comments that the advice letter recommends further pension reviews. But this 
is a recommendation, not an agreement to carry them out, nor to do so for free.
Ive also thought about Mr Vs comments that the advice shouldve been delayed to a later 
time as his income situation was fluid. But I dont agree. He asked CS for advice based on 
his situation at the time, and this is what was provided. The advice letter did make clear that 
this was based on what CS knew of Mr Vs situation at the time. And, leaving it any later, 
given the time this would take and the complexity of these calculations, may have meant 
Mr V missed the opportunity to make his contribution in that tax year. By increasing his pension contribution via his employer, Mr V in effect reduced his salary. 
The consequence of this was it also reduced the amount he could pay into his pension as a 
lump sum due to HMRC rules. Mr V asked CS in March 2021 if this would have an impact on 
the amount he could pay as a lump sum into his pension. I think that CS couldve refused to 
provide further information at this time given that no agreement for further advice was in 
place. However, CS advisor tried to help Mr V. Whilst Ive no doubt this was done in a 
genuine effort to help Mr V, this is unfortunately where the mistake was made in that the 
advisor didnt tell Mr V of the impact of the additional amount he was paying into his pension 
via salary sacrifice. And, based on this, Mr V proceeded with making the recommended lump 
sum payment into his GPP, in addition to the further salary sacrifice contribution via his 
employer. So, Im satisfied a mistake by GPP did lead to Mr V to exceed his annual 
allowance.
There was the potential this could cause Mr V a financial loss. However, hes now confirmed 
that the pension provider is in the process of refunding the overpaid amount and the excess 
tax relief will be repaid to HMRC. So, this puts right the financial impact of the mistake. By 
this, I mean that Mr V will not have overpaid into his pension, he will have the money 
returned to him and he will not be liable for any excess charges or tax to HMRC. So, whilst 
there has been no financial loss, I need to go on to consider if the impact this mistake has 
had on Mr V and whether any further compensation is warranted. 
Mr V originally suggested that the entire advice fee of around £3,600 should be refunded. 
Hes since reduced this suggestion to £1,500 plus VAT. In order to consider whether this is a 
fair outcome Ive looked at what advice the fee covered. This fee covered more than just the 
calculation of the amount Mr V could pay into his pension using the carry forward allowance. 
It also covered the research and recommendation of what fund to invest in and the overall 
pension advice. And I can see Mr V has asked a number of questions of CS and received 
further information and opinion following the initial letter of recommendation. And there is no 
suggestion that the investment advice given to him was unsuitable. So, overall, Im satisfied 
the advice was fairly charged for work carried out. 
Whilst CS did make a mistake, as Ive set out above, this was after the advice hed paid for 
was provided. And was, in part, due to Mr V changing his plans. Id normally require CS to 
correct any financial loss that has been incurred and compensate Mr V for any distress and 
inconvenience this matter has caused. However, Mr Vs pension provider has been able to 
unwind matters, so no loss has occurred. 
CS has offered to refund half of what it wouldve charged for the carryover calculation on its 
own. This works out to a total of £900. Ive thought about this, and I think this is fair in the 
circumstances and reasonable in the circumstances.
CS has also offered £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused. Our Investigator suggested this amount and felt it fair. Whilst this has clearly been 
frustrating for Mr V, and has taken him some time and effort to resolve the matter, I agree 
that this amount is a fair reflection of the trouble this matter has caused.  
Putting things right
To put things right, Im going to tell Charles Stanley & Co Ltd to:
Refund £900 of the advice fee (made up of £750 fee plus VAT).
Pay £400 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Charles Stanley & Co Ltd to put matters right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman