DRN-3080384
The complaint
Mr R has complained that a broker Hedgehog Limited mis-sold a car insurance policy to him. 
Hes unhappy that it didnt provide a full refund when he cancelled the policy and he 
complains that it discriminated against him.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr R bought a car insurance policy via the broker Hedgehog through an 
online comparison website. 
Hedgehog asked Mr R to provide proof of his No Claims Discount (NCD) of seven years. 
Through an online chat Mr R told Hedgehog hed called it before he bought the policy to 
check if his trade NCD would be accepted, and that Hedgehog had told him it would be. 
Mr R was very unhappy to find out that his trade NCB wouldnt be accepted. He asked 
Hedgehog to cancel the policy, which it did (this would have happened in any event due to 
the NCD not being acceptable). 
On cancellation Hedgehog said Mr R owed a cancellation fee and non-refundable set up fee 
totalling £65. 
In the online chat Mr R said he was unhappy at discovering the communication for the policy 
was online. He said he has difficulty reading and writing and would not have chosen the 
policy if hed known this. He wanted Hedgehog to communicate with him by phone. 
Hedgehog called Mr R back the following day to discuss his complaint as agreed. It then 
followed up the call by email and sent a final response to his complaint in September 2020. 
Hedgehog didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. It checked its records and could find no incoming 
call from Mr Rs number in the 90 days before 1 September 2020  which was a week after 
Mr R bought the policy. It said without evidence of the call, it couldnt uphold his complaint 
that it had wrongly told him his trade NCD would be acceptable. It explained that the number 
Mr R said he called was their claim line number. 
Hedgehog checked the online journey Mr R took when buying the policy on 26 August 2020. 
Hedgehog explained that depending on the answer he gave about where his NCD came 
from, he was either able to buy the policy or not. It found that Mr R had changed the answer 
during the online journey and bought the policy on this basis. 
Mr R remained unhappy and in October 2020 he asked us to look at his complaint. Our 
investigator thought Hedgehogs request for evidence from Mr R of the call he made via his 
network provider was a reasonable one. She didnt find Hedgehog had treated Mr R unfairly. 
She thought it had clearly explained the terms and conditions of the policy online to Mr R 
before he bought it  and it had asked a clear question about his NCD. When hed asked to 
be contacted by phone, Hedgehog did so. Mr R later asked Hedgehog not to call him as the 
matter was taking too long. 
In August 2021 both parties replied to the investigators view. Mr R provided an extract from 
a phone bill which he says shows he called Hedgehog three days before he bought the 
policy. Our investigator said the date and time of the call didnt match the account Mr R had 
previously given. Mr R said he couldnt remember exactly when he called Hedgehog as he 
was receiving treatment for a critical illness at the time. 
The investigator sent the information to Hedgehog for their comments. Hedgehog checked 
its call records again on receipt of the screenshot Mr R provided. Its provided evidence of all 
incoming calls at that time and there is no record of an incoming call from Mr Rs number on 
the date and time given. It says its waiting time on that day was in excess of 15 minutes  
and so it doesnt accept that Mr R was able to ask and receive an answer from their claims 
line about his NCD in a call that lasted less than three minutes. 
The investigator put Hedgehogs comments to Mr R  and asked him if he could provide 
better evidence to show he called them  as the evidence provided was a cut out line of a 
call to a Hedgehog number - but didnt show Mr Rs number or verify it was from a phone bill. 
Mr R didnt agree to provide any further evidence. He says hes already provided what we 
asked for. Mr R doesnt believe Hedgehogs account about its call wait times. He says it isnt 
fair Hedgehog has kept his money when he must have called at a quiet time and spoken to 
an agent.
As Mr R didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For ease Ive set out the complaints under headings below.
Mr Rs NCD and Hedgehogs communication with him 
Mr R told us that he was moving from a motor trade policy to a personal car insurance 
policy, so he got a quote online and decided to go with Hedgehog. Mr R told us that before 
accepting, he rang Hedgehog to check he could use his trade NCD. Mr R said Hedgehog  
told him it was ok and so he proceeded to buy the policy online. 
Mr R says within minutes of buying the policy he was asked by Hedgehog to provide proof of 
his NCD. Mr R says on the same day, he was in touch with Hedgehog via their online chat. 
Hedgehog has provided the transcript of the chat from 26 August 2020. 
In this discussion Mr R provided proof of his NCD and asked if it was acceptable. The agent 
replied that it wasnt, as the NCD wasnt earned under a private policy. Mr R said hed called 
before he bought the policy to check if his trade NCD would be acceptable and was told it 
would be. He asked for a manager to call him back. He complained that Hedgehog had mis-
sold the policy to him. The agent explained that the policy was an online policy, but he said a 
manager would aim to call Mr R back the next day after Mr R explained why he had difficulty 
corresponding in writing. 
A manager called Mr R on 27 August 2020 as agreed. Details of their discussion and 
Hedgehogs complaints process was confirmed to Mr R in an email after the phone call. And 
Im satisfied this is a likely accurate reflection of the call. 
To investigate Mr Rs complaint, Hedgehog checked its records for a recording of the call Mr 
R mentioned, but it couldnt find it. So Hedgehog asked Mr R if he could tell it the date and time he called. But Mr R refused. In September 2020 Mr R said he wanted either a full 
refund or a deadlock letter from Hedgehog. Mr R asked Hedgehog not to call him as he said 
the matter was taking too long to resolve over the phone. 
I dont think Hedgehogs request for evidence of Mr Rs call was unreasonable, given it could 
find no record of it after it checked  and given the potential significance of the call. And 
once it became aware of Mr Rs communication requirements, I think it acted fairly and 
reasonably in the overall way in which Hedgehog communicated with Mr R. 
Mr R provided this service with a screenshot of one line showing a typed record of a date, 
time, contact number and duration for a call. The number is the claims line number for 
Hedgehog. It shows a date and time of 23 August 2020 at 12.09pm for two minutes and 
thirty one seconds. This was three days before he bought the policy online.
However, it doesnt show which number the call log is for, and isnt on headed paper from a 
network provider in order to authenticate the evidence. So there is no way of linking the 
details to Mr Rs number or to show that the information comes from his network provider. 
We asked Mr R for further evidence, but he hasnt provided it. The date and time doesnt tie 
in with the date and time Mr R bought the policy online with Hedgehog and spoke to it via 
their online chat service. 
So Im not persuaded that there is enough for me to reasonably conclude that Mr R called 
Hedgehog and had a discussion with an agent before buying the policy. I think Hedgehogs 
evidence and comments are persuasive in that it seems a short period of time to discuss his 
NCD, given the call queues that day and the basic checks that would have needed to be 
done. 
Mr Rs online application for the policy 
So the remaining information for me to consider is the online journey Mr R took before he 
bought the policy. Screenshots show that Mr R was given a number of options to choose 
from following this question:
How have you earned the 7 years no claims discount?
Hedgehog says that Mr R initially chose: As the policyholder, on my own car, in the UK, last 
insured over 2 years ago
Hedgehog has shown that this led Mr R to a page which said Mr R would need to either 
contact Hedgehog - or change the number of NCD years to zero. It says the contact us 
option would have brought Mr R to speak to Hedgehog through their online chat system. And 
the outcome would have been that Hedgehog couldnt provide Mr R with a policy if it knew 
his NCD wasnt earned from a private policy. 
The note on this page reads:
Important  its unlikely we can offer a discount based on the option you have 
selected. Please do not buy the policy without following one of the options below:
The options given were to follow a link to contact Hedgehog (through online chat)  or 
change the number of years NCB to zero. 
Hedgehog concluded:Please note  if you buy the policy and we are unable to accept your No Claims 
Discount proof, your premium could increase or be cancelled. If you choose to 
cancel, the cancellation fee would apply.
Hedgehog says Mr R went back and changed the answer to; As the policyholder, on my 
own car, in the UK, insured within the last 2 years
This option allowed Mr R to proceed with the purchase of the policy. And the policy 
documents Hedgehog sent to Mr R support this. Hedgehog says the timeline between 
switching from the first option to the second was one minute. Hedgehog said this was a very 
narrow window of time to have called it and discussed his NCD with the claims team. And in 
the circumstances, I agree. 
Hedgehogs cancellation charge
Under Hedgehogs terms and conditions which were available to Mr R before he purchased 
the policy, it set out what it would charge in the event of a cancellation and when. It 
explained that if the policy was cancelled it wouldnt refund an arrangement fee of £15 and it 
would charge a cancellation fee of £50 even if cancellation was within the first 14 days of 
purchase. 
Mr R agreed to Hedgehogs terms and conditions before purchasing the policy. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I dont think Hedgehog has unfairly relied on the terms and 
conditions to charge Mr R these fees when he cancelled the policy. 
Based on the information available, I dont think Hedgehog did anything wrong. There isnt 
evidence to show it misled or mis-sold the policy to Mr R. And I dont think Mr Rs medical 
conditions played any part in Hedgehogs decision to charge him the cancellation fees. I 
think it fairly charged Mr R £65 on cancellation. 
I understand Mr R will be very disappointed with my decision. And I appreciate that he has 
been through an extremely difficult time. But I dont think Hedgehog has acted unreasonably. 
And so Im not asking it to do anymore.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman