DRN-2727862
The complaint
Miss N complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited still hasnt put things right 
after a claim on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss N discovered shed been the victim of an attempted break-in. After the police had 
visited she contacted Lloyds to let them know whatd happened. Miss N said Lloyds sent a 
surveyor to look at the damage. But shes worried because water is still entering her home 
after they removed a piece of plastic trim from her window. 
Miss N said the attempted theft had caused damage in a number of areas. But Lloyds hadnt 
done anything to put things right. She said Lloyds surveyor ruined her window, the back 
door only locks some of the time and shes really upset by how her claim has been handled. 
So she wants Lloyds to sort things out.
Lloyds said itd appointed someone to make the damaged window safe. Theyd removed a 
piece of plastic trim to work out what repairs were necessary. But theyd not put it because it 
needed replacing as part of the overall repairs. Lloyds could see Miss N was concerned that 
water could still get in. But its surveyor had revisited to inspect the window. And theyd 
tested to make sure it was keeping the water out. 
Lloyds said itd sent a personal claims consultant to assist Miss N with the claim. It accepted 
the damage to the window and door was consistent with damage caused by an attempted 
break-in. But the damage to the side gate appeared to be wear and tear. Lloyds surveyor 
said the damage to the laminate flooring appeared to have happened over a period of time. 
Water was entering through an air brick into the wall cavity. And Miss Ns home insurance 
policy didnt provide cover for damage thatd occurred gradually over time. 
Lloyds apologised for how itd dealt with Miss Ns claim. Thered been delays which had 
slowed down progress. But its appointed contractors were ready to carry out the repairs to 
the damaged window and door in line with the terms and conditions of the home insurance 
policy. And itd offered Miss N a total of £175 compensation for its poor service.
Miss N wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response. So she contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She appreciated how difficult it mustve been for Miss N 
to deal with the attempted break-in after a period of illness. And she looked at the different 
parts of Miss Ns claim to see if Lloyds had done anything wrong. But overall she felt Lloyds 
had dealt with the complaint fairly. 
Our investigator said Lloyds had accepted the damage to the window and door. But Miss N 
hadnt wanted it to carry out the repairs. And she hadnt been able to provide any further 
information about her flooring or guttering. So she couldnt say Lloyds had acted incorrectly. 
She felt Lloyds offer of £175 compensation for its poor handling of the claim was fair in the 
circumstances. So she wouldnt be asking it to do anything more.
Miss N didnt agree. So shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Lloyds had ignored 
parts of her claim before closing it. It hadnt checked for damage to the roof or upstairs 
windows after the guttering had been climbed on. Miss N said her health was stopping her 
getting a quote for the guttering and downpipe. And the problem with water getting in went 
away after a temporary fix. So it couldnt have been wear and tear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upsetting this has been for Miss N. And Im glad shes brought her complaint 
to this service to look at. Its clearly been a very difficult process for Miss N to go through. So 
Ive looked at everything Miss N and Lloyds have said. But having done so, I dont think Ive 
any proper basis to uphold Miss Ns complaint. Ill explain why below.
Miss N returned to her home after a few days in hospital to discover someone had tried to 
break-in. And that mustve been very upsetting. She had a number of visits from her insurer 
to look at the damage thatd been caused. But shes unhappy with the way her claim was 
handled. And she says Lloyds hasnt really put anything right.
Miss N has raised concerns about a number of areas she feels Lloyds hasnt dealt with. So 
Ill deal with each in turn. After the surveyor visited her property Miss N believes more 
damage was caused to the window. It leaked whenever there was a period of rain and both 
Miss N and her son were worried about slipping.
I can see Lloyds apologised for its contractor removing the plastic strip from the damaged 
window to check for damage and not putting it back afterwards. And it offered compensation 
which Miss N has declined. I understand the window was tested during a later visit and there 
was no sign of water getting in. But Miss N insists it only happens when it rains over a period 
of time.
Lloyds has accepted Miss Ns claim for attempted theft damage to the window. And its 
agreed the damage to the door was also caused during the break-in. I realise Miss N has 
lost confidence in Lloyds contractors. And I can understand her concerns after the problem 
with the plastic strip on the upvc window. But Lloyds has appointed a new firm to help with 
the repairs. And I think thats a reasonable response. 
Lloyds has agreed to cover the damage to the window and door under Miss Ns home 
insurance policy. And its appointed specialists to carry out the repairs. So although Miss N 
has declined their help so far, I think Lloyds has dealt with this part of the complaint 
correctly. And I hope Miss N will get in touch with Lloyds so the repairs to the door and 
window can take place.
Miss N also claimed for damage to her laminate flooring and wooden gate. She believes 
they were also damaged during the break-in. But Ive looked at the reports provided by the 
specialists who visited Miss Ns property. They agree the most likely cause of damage to 
both the flooring and wooden gate is general wear and tear. And unfortunately the home 
insurance product information document states wear and tear, maintenance, or loss or 
damage that happens over a period of time is not an insured peril. 
I know Miss N says a builder suggested it might be a slow leak following rain, although it 
would be expensive to get a report to confirm this. But unless Miss N can give Lloyds some 
other evidence I think its entitled to rely on the views of its expert assessors. I cant really ask Lloyds to pay for further reports when it already has information from two 
other sources that confirm the most likely cause of damage to the flooring is general wear 
and tear. 
And unfortunately I cant really say Lloyds has acted unfairly in declined the claim for 
damage to the timber gate for the same reason. I know Miss N says the lock had been 
broken off the gate. But the surveyor felt the gate was beginning to fall apart. And there 
wasnt any sign of the typical damage from a forced entry. So I cant really ask Lloyds to 
cover the cost of repairing or replacing the gate. Again the evidence suggests the damage 
was caused by wear and tear.
Miss N also said there may have been some damage caused to the guttering and downpipe. 
But shes not been able to provide more information because of her health and the general 
situation around shielding. I do appreciate Miss Ns concerns. But Lloyds has said it would 
look at any more information provided by Miss N. And I cant ask it to do anything else 
unless it has further information to assess.   
I know Miss N feels Lloyds shouldve dealt with her claim more efficiently in one go. And 
shes found it very distressing. I do agree Lloyds couldve handled the claim more smoothly. 
Miss N was in a difficult position having just returned from hospital. And an attempted break-
in wouldve been very stressful. So any delays in progressing the claim wouldve added to 
the upset and inconvenience suffered by Miss N and her family.
Miss N was also upset an appointment was made while she was on a school run. But Lloyds 
couldnt find any record of being asked to avoid certain times. And it did rearrange for a 
Saturday outside of its normal working hours. So I think Lloyds did try and take Miss Ns 
circumstances into consideration.
Lloyds has accepted it couldve done better. And I can see its offered a total of £175 
compensation for its poor service. I think thats the right response. Its in line with the sort of 
award our service wouldve recommended if Lloyds hadnt made the offer.
I do hope Miss N is feeling better soon. If she can provide any further evidence to Lloyds Im 
sure they will consider it. And I hope she will soon feel well enough to make an appointment 
so that the window and door can be repaired through her home insurance policy.
But based on everything Ive seen I cant really say Lloyds has acted unfairly in the way its 
handled Miss Ns claim. And I think its offer of £175 compensation for any trouble and upset 
is reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman