DRN-3208811
The complaint
Mr G complains that Metro Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him from being the victim of 
a scam or to help him recover his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In 2018 Mr G was sadly the victim of a scam. He believed he was paying a platform (which 
Ill refer to as V) to invest in CFDs and Foreign Exchange (FOREX) trading. Between 
March 2018 and June 2019 Mr G made several transfers from his bank account as a result 
of the scam. He also made several debit card payments as well. Overall, Mr G lost over 
£111,000 as a result of the scam. 
When he reported to Metro Bank that hed been the victim of a scam they investigated. But 
ultimately no money was recovered from the transfers hed sent and they said they were 
unable to progress chargeback claims in relation to the debit card payments. 
Mr G referred his complaint to our service and one of our investigators didnt recommend 
that the complaint should be upheld. As he disagrees, Mr G has asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr G lost this money. But my role here is to assess whether Metro Bank 
ought to have done more to prevent this, or if they could have done more to try to recover 
the loss. 
Ill first deal with the bank transfers which represent the majority of Mr Gs funds that were 
lost. 
It is common ground that Mr G authorised the scam payments in question here. I accept that 
these were authorised payments even though Mr G was the victim of a scam. So, although 
he did not know he was being scammed, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of the account, Mr G is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Metro Bank should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, when making several of the payments, Mr G was asked questions by Metro 
Bank. For example, Mr G told Metro Bank that a transfer of around £18,000 in June 2018 
was for the purchase of a vehicle. There are also notes of Mr Gs reasons for a transfer of 
around £17,000 that was made in June 2019. This time, Mr G said that the payment was to 
settle a builders invoice. 
Mr G says he doesnt remember saying any payment was to settle an invoice or to buy a 
vehicle, but Im more persuaded by the notes on Metro Banks systems. As Ive mentioned 
above, Id expect a bank to ask questions in response to unusual or uncharacteristic 
payment instructions. Id also expect them to provide suitable warnings of common scams 
based upon the answer they receive. But this is all predicated on the customer providing 
truthful answers to the questions being asked. Banks should be aware that victims of scams 
are sometimes coached or given cover stories by scammers to explain the payments. But I 
dont think any reasonable level of questioning by Metro Bank would have resulted in a 
situation where the investment / trading scam would have come to light. As such, I dont 
think Metro Bank reasonably could or should have stopped the transfers being sent. Even if 
they ought to have intervened in more of the payments or asked further questions, in the 
circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded it would have made a difference.
Once Mr G reported that the payments had been made as a result of a scam, Metro Bank 
contacted the beneficiary banks to try to recover the funds. But unfortunately, all the banks 
reported that they were unable to return any funds. Sadly, it is a common feature of scams 
that the money is promptly moved on from the beneficiary accounts. I dont think Metro Bank 
could have done more to try to recover the transfers for Mr G. 
Ill next consider the debit card payments which were made between November 2018 and 
January 2019. Many of these payments were to a merchant Ill refer to as J. J appear to be 
a legitimate company involved with crypto-currency. Metro Bank asked for Mr G for evidence 
to support his chargeback. But the evidence Mr G provided all related to the business hed 
been dealing with V. Metro Bank are reliant on the card providers (Mastercard) chargeback 
scheme rules. And they cant raise a chargeback with a business that didnt receive the 
payment. It seems most likely that J did what was asked for them, that is convert the funds 
received in the card payments to crypto-currency and pass it on to the wallet they were 
instructed to pay. So any chargeback against J wouldnt have succeeded as they had done 
what was asked of them. As such, I cant say that Metro Bank were wrong to not raise a 
chargeback for the payments to J.
For completeness, in October 2019 Mr G asked for a chargeback in relation to two further 
payments that went to different merchants. But by that time, the relevant time limit under the 
scheme rules had already passed. As such, I dont think Metro Banks decision to not further 
progress that chargeback request was unreasonable. Overall, I dont think Metro Bank are responsible for Mr Gs loss or did anything that hindered 
its recovery. As such, I cant fairly ask them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman