DRN-3737209
The complaint
Mrs S has complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) unfairly declined 
part of a claim under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S contacted Lloyds to make a claim for storm damage to her home. Lloyds agreed to 
cover some of the damage, but declined some parts of the claim. Mrs S complained to 
Lloyds and then to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He said it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim for the windowsill, pebbledash and the shed roof. 
He also said he hadnt seen anything to show Mrs S had taken steps to mitigate the damage 
to items stored within the shed caused by the water entering it. However, he said he hadnt 
seen evidence that Lloyds had properly assessed the letterbox or the damage to the hall 
carpet. He said Lloyds should deal with the letterbox and carpet and pay Mrs S £125 
compensation.
Following this, the complaint was closed at this service. Lloyds also looked at the claim for 
the letterbox and carpet. Lloyds then agreed to cover the water damage to the hall carpet, 
but it declined to cover the damage to the letter box as it said it was wear and tear.
Mrs S complained to this service. Lloyds confirmed its position on the claim and said it hadnt 
looked at the shed roof again as there was no new evidence to consider. It said it didnt think 
this service could consider the shed roof. When our investigator responded to Mrs S she 
said it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim for the letterbox on the basis of wear 
and tear. She also said this service couldnt consider the shed roof any further.
As Mrs S didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
I should start by clarifying that the damage to the shed roof and its contents doesnt form 
part of this decision. It was considered as part of an earlier complaint to this service. That 
complaint was dealt with and is closed. I am unable to comment on that part of the claim any 
further. 
There were two issues that formed part of the complaint that Im considering. These were 
the hall carpet and the letterbox. Lloyds has now agreed to deal with the hall carpet, so I 
havent considered that any further. However, Ive looked at whether it was reasonable for 
Lloyds to decline the claim for the letterbox.
Lloyds sent a company to assess the condition of the letterbox. The company found that a 
number of previous repairs had been carried out on the letterbox, as there was silicone in 
places. It also said the seals around the door were breaking away, which might be allowing 
an ingress of water. Lloyds then sent a second company to assess the letterbox. This 
company also found that the letterbox had been resealed externally. It said it was a general 
wear and tear problem. Ive also seen photos of the letterbox which was consistent with what 
was described. 
Looking at the policy, this didnt cover wear and tear. I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
rely on the surveyors findings and to decline the claim for the letterbox. Im aware that Mrs S 
also had tradespeople look at the letterbox. One applied sealant, which didnt stop the leak, 
and the other said it couldnt be repaired. This doesnt change my view that Lloyds acted 
reasonably by declining the claim. As a result, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds 
to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman