DRN-1613650
The complaint
Mr M complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled his chargeback claim after 
he rented a car. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr M rented a car from a car hire business. Mr M says he was offered a free 
upgrade to a different vehicle. The car hire business says Mr M agreed to pay for an 
upgrade and insurance which came to £144. 
After Mr M returned the vehicle he was charged £569.40 for damage and £84 for a road 
traffic violation. 
Mr M later contacted Barclays to dispute the transactions. Mr M initially said they were 
fraudulent but after Barclays asked further questions it raised a chargeback claim. The car 
hire business responded and provided evidence the payments it had taken were authorised 
by Mr M and in line with the rental agreement. The chargeback claim wasn't successful. 
Mr M asked Barclays to raise further disputes relating to the car hire charges he had to pay. 
Barclays didnt agree to refund any of the charges. After Mr M complained, Barclays 
responded on 17 July 2019 but didnt agree it had made a mistake. Barclays said there was 
nothing it could do to obtain refunds under the Visa dispute rules and recommended he 
obtain legal advice. Mr M referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an 
investigator. The investigator thought Barclays decision to decline Mr Ms chargeback was 
reasonable so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M asked to appeal, so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr M feels he has been overcharged by the car hire business and that the 
charges he incurred werent genuine. But we can only look at Barclays actions in this case. 
When Mr M told Barclays that the charges he incurred werent genuine its only option to get 
a refund was to raise a Visa dispute (also known as a chargeback). 
There are limited reasons to raise a chargeback and success isnt guaranteed. Visa sets the 
rules for chargebacks, not Barclays. 
I can see that Barclays raised Mr Ms concerns with the car hire business and it received 
evidence that the charges it applied were in line with the agreement he signed. The care hire 
business also supplied evidence to show the vehicle was returned with damage and a road 
traffic violation had been reported. As a result, Barclays declined the chargeback as the 
evidence indicated the charges were genuine. 
I know Mr M says the charges werent genuine, but I have to balance that against the signed 
agreement provided by the car hire business along with evidence to show the vehicle was returned with damage. I've also seen evidence a road traffic violation was reported whilst the 
vehicle was in Mr M's possession. Taking everything Ive seen into account, Im satisfied 
Barclays decision to decline Mr Ms chargeback was reasonable. 
If Mr M remains concerned about the charges he paid, he has the option to obtain legal 
advice. But Im satisfied that Barclays decision not to refund the disputed charges was fair. 
I'm very sorry to disappoint Mr M but I haven't been persuaded that Barclays has made an 
error or treated him unfairly by declining his chargeback. So I'm not telling Barclays to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman