DRN-3299889
The complaint
Mr C complains about problems he had with an international money transfer made from his 
Santander UK Plc account.
What happened
Mr C sent an international payment I Euros from his Santander account on 10 September 
2021. The following day he contacted Santander to ask for the payment to be cancelled as 
he wasnt sure hed put the correct customer reference number. Santander said it couldnt 
guarantee that there would be time to cancel the payment and the payment debited his 
account on 
13 September 2021. 
The funds were not received by the intended recipient and Mr C asked Santander to recall 
the payment. It was eventually returned by the foreign bank, but it was £88.24 less than had 
been sent due to a change in the exchange rate and charges by the foreign bank. Mr C 
complained to Santander about this. He said the receipt provided by Santander didnt have 
the customer reference which he had input online and he thought this was why the foreign 
bank couldnt allocate the payment. 
Santander said the receipt didnt show the customer reference, but this had been included 
when the funds were sent. It said the reason Mr C received less money than he transferred 
was due to fluctuations in exchange rates and costs applied by the foreign bank. Mr C 
remained unhappy and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He was satisfied Santander had included the 
customer reference number and didnt think it had made a mistake. Mr C maintained that the 
error was Santander omitting the reference number when sending the funds to the foreign 
bank. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, its been passed to 
me to consider and make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In cases such as this, where we dont know exactly what has happened, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have happened 
given the evidence I do have. Mr C says he thinks Santander sent the foreign transaction 
without the reference number he put in. Santander says this isnt the case.
Unfortunately, I cant know for sure why the foreign bank didnt allocate the payment as it 
shouldve. However, Santander has shown me a copy of its internal records (which weve 
shared with Mr C) which it says contains all of the details of the international payment. And I 
can see the reference number Mr C input is shown here, and is correct. Furthermore, Mr C 
has told us there was a section on the online bank screen he used which had a box for the 
reference number and he completed this. Given that these processes are largely automated, 
its likely that if Mr C input a reference number here, it wouldve automatically pulled through.
Ive also listened to the call between Mr C and Santander when he originally raised this as a 
complaint. During this time, the complaint handler spoke with the department dealing with 
international transfers. And they confirmed the reference number and that it had been 
included when it was sent.
Based on all of the above, and the audit trails Santander have provided us, I think its most 
likely that Santander did include the reference number when it sent the payment to the 
foreign bank. 
Mr C says that the receipt he received from Santander for the transfer didnt have the 
customer reference hed provided, and this was evidence Santander hadnt provided it to the 
foreign bank. If there were a customer reference box on the receipt and this was blank, I 
might agree with Mr C. But, the receipt is a templated form with no space for the customer 
reference. This is simply a receipt of transfer for Mr Cs benefit. There is no reason to show 
the reference intended for use by the receiving bank. So, I dont consider this is evidence 
that Santander failed to provide the customer reference to the foreign bank.
Mr C eventually paid for the services the money was intended for with an alternative method 
and requested a return of the funds. There is no guarantee of how long it will take for a 
foreign transfer to reach its intended recipient as this depends on the actions of the foreign 
bank. We wont know why the payment wasnt received. Its possible this was an error by the 
foreign bank. Or secondly, and in my opinion most likely, the payment simply hadnt been 
allocated within the first few days and was then stopped, as per Mr Cs request, and this was 
eventually returned. Either way, neither of these outcomes is the fault of Santander. So, I 
wont be asking it to refund the difference between what Mr C sent and what he received 
back.  
My final decision
I understand Mr C feels very strongly about this matter. But my final decision is I dont 
uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman