DRN-2755244
The complaint
Ms M and Ms T complain about Avantia Insurance Limited trading as Homeprotect (AIL) and 
their decision to cancel the insurance policy they held. 
What happened
On 26 February 2019, Ms M and Ms T took out a buildings insurance policy with AIL.
On 13 September, Ms M and Ms T called AIL to make them aware of renovation work they 
were having done to the garden. The following day, Ms M and Ms T spoke to AIL again, 
confirming theyd signed a liability waiver with the contractor for fire, theft and third-party 
damage.
As Ms M and Ms T had signed a liability waiver, AIL explained they were unable to continue 
insuring Ms M and Ms Ts property. So, they cancelled the policy. AIL wrote to Ms M and Ms 
T to explain they would be refunding the premiums Ms M and Ms T had already paid, 
totalling £65.02. But this amount was never refunded to Ms M and Ms T as the cancellation 
wasnt correctly processing until the renewal was issued in 2020. Ms M and Ms T were 
unhappy with how AIL had handled the cancellation of their policy, so they raised a 
complaint.
Ms M and Ms T were unhappy with AILs decision to cancel the policy. They were worried 
about the impact this would have on them obtaining future insurance if this needed to be 
disclosed. They thought AIL shouldve offered them the chance to cancel instead, to prevent 
the cancellation being recorded against them. So, Ms M and Ms T wanted AIL to confirm the 
cancellation was recorded as their own, meaning it didnt need to be disclosed to future 
insurers.
But AIL thought theyd processed the cancellation correctly and that it would need to be 
disclosed, as Ms M and Ms T had taken action that meant AIL were no longer willing to put 
the property on risk. Ms M and Ms T were unhappy with this response, so they referred their 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She thought AIL had acted in line 
with the policy and their processes when cancelling the policy, as Ms M and Ms T had 
signed a liability waiver. She explained this increased the risk on the policy and was satisfied 
this fell outside of AILs underwriting criteria. So, she didnt think AIL had done anything 
wrong when taking this action. But she didnt think AIL had refunded the premiums as theyd 
told Ms M and Ms T they were going to do. So, she thought AIL refund this and pay Ms M 
and Ms T 8% statutory interest on this amount, from 26 September 2019 until the date of 
settlement. And finally, she asked AIL to clarify whether Ms M and Ms T would need to 
declare this cancellation to future insurers.
AIL confirmed the cancelation would need to be declared. But they accepted our 
investigators view and offered another £50 as a goodwill gesture. But Ms M and Ms T were 
unhappy with this as they thought AIL had mis-led them during the telephone conversations 
where they discussed the renovation work. Our investigator listened to these calls and didnt 
agree. She thought AIL made it clear the cancellation could be avoided if Ms M and Ms T 
cancelled the renovation work. As Ms M and Ms T had continued with the work, she 
remained of the view that AIL had acted fairly. So, she didnt think AIL needed to anything 
more than what shed originally recommended. Ms M and Ms T remained unhappy, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im uphold the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms M and Ms T. I dont doubt 
Ms M and Ms T were unaware of the implications signing the liability waiver had. And I 
recognise they called AIL to make them aware of the work that was due to be completed in 
good faith. So, I can appreciate why they are concerned about what impact declaring the 
cancellation may have on future insurance policies. 
Its not in dispute that AIL failed to provide a refund of the premiums Ms M and Ms T paid. 
And when a policy is cancelled, and there is still a period of cover left that a customer has 
paid for that they will no longer benefit from, this is what Id expect an insurer to do.  AIL 
have agreed to process this refund along with the additional 8% statutory interest suggested 
by our investigator. I think this is a fair offer, and Ive seen AIL have already contacted Ms M 
and Ms T to arrange payment. So, I wont be looking into this any further. AIL have offered to 
pay Ms M and Ms T a further £50 as a goodwill gesture. It is Ms M and Ms Ts own decision 
as to whether they want to accept this.
From what Ive seen, the main area of dispute is the way AIL cancelled the policy. Ms M and 
Ms T think this was processed unfairly, and that they shouldve been given the chance to 
cancel the policy themselves, so it didnt need to be declared to future insurers. So, they 
want the cancellation to be reported differently.
For me to say AIL should alter the way the cancellation has been reported, Id need to see 
one of two things. Either, Id need to be satisfied their decision to cancel the policy was 
unfair and by doing so, they failed to act within the terms of the policy. Or, that they didnt 
make it reasonably clear to Ms M and Ms T the options they had available before the 
renovation work began. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
The policy documents explain that a customer must let AIL know if they are undertaking 
renovation work and that this will only be covered if its agreed in writing beforehand. But Ive 
seen that when Ms M and Ms T made AIL aware of the work they were undertaking, theyd 
already signed a liability waiver. And theyd already paid a deposit for the work and agreed a 
date for it to begin.
AIL have showed me their underwriting criteria, which explains a customer cant sign a 
liability waiver. This is because AIL are then liable for a greater than they were at the 
inception of the policy. Insurers such as AIL have the right to decide what risk they are 
willing to take. And in this situation, Ms M and Ms T exceeded this risk by signing the waiver. 
So, I cant say that AIL have acted unfairly by deciding the cancel the policy at this point. 
And I think it was made reasonably clear in the policy documents that this was case. So, I 
think AIL have acted within them.Ive also considered whether I think AIL made it clear what options were available to Ms M 
and Ms T when the issues with the liability waiver were made clear. Ms M and Ms T believe 
they were told that even if they cancelled the renovation work, the policy would remain 
cancelled and I dont doubt this is a true recollection of what they remembered.
But crucially, Ive listened to the call recordings provided by AIL. And in these recordings, 
AIL explained to Ms M and Ms T that if they were to cancel the renovation work, the 
cancellation of the policy could be revoked, and the policy could continue.
Ms M and Ms T didnt do this and continued with the renovation work. So, I think Ms M and 
Ms T were given an option to avoid the cancellation and decided against it. I appreciate due 
to the stress of the situation, and the number of calls that were made, this information may 
have been missed or not fully understood by Ms M and Ms T. But Im satisfied AIL made it 
reasonably clear and this is all Id expect them to do.
And from these calls, I also think its clear that it was AILs decision to cancel the policy, due 
to the additional risk presented by the signing of the liability waiver. Ms M and Ms T 
discussed additional cover they could take with AIL to prevent the cancellation. So, I dont 
think Ms M and Ms T chose to cancel the policy themselves. Because of this, I wouldnt 
expect AIL to report the cancellation in this way. AIL have a duty to report cancellations 
accurately and in this situation, I think it was AIL who chose to end the policy. So, I think AIL 
have provided Ms M and Ms T with fair and reasonable information when explaining the 
cancellation would need to be declared when they come to apply for new insurance 
products. 
This is because Ms M and Ms T have a responsibility to provide the correct information to a 
prospective insurer, so the insurer is able to calculate the risk of providing that product. If AIL 
told Ms M and Ms T not to disclose this information, they would be leaving Ms M and Ms T 
vulnerable to further cancellations due to mis-representation and I dont think it would be fair 
of them to do this. Because of this, I cant say AIL have done anything wrong by reporting 
the cancellation in the way that they have.
I understand this isnt the complete outcome Ms M and Ms T were hoping for. And I can 
appreciate this will be upsetting and wont help alleviate their concerns about obtaining future 
insurance. But I hope this decision goes some way to explaining why AIL have acted fairly 
and brings some form of closure to their complaint.
Putting things right
As explained above, I think AIL failed to provide a refund to Ms M and Ms T when I wouldve 
expected them to. This has left Ms M and Ms T without this refund for a period of time. To 
recognise this, I think AIL should refund the £65.02 Ms M and Ms T were due, plus an 
additional 8% interest from the 26 September when AIL said it would be refunded to the date 
of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms M and Ms Ts complaint about Avantia 
Insurance Limited trading as Homeprotect and direct them to take the following action:
Refund Ms M and Ms T the premiums they were owed after the policy was cancelled 
plus 8% statutory interest from the 26 September 2019 to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman