DRN-3859212
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain about how Lloyds Bank PLC handled a cash withdrawal that was 
made over the counter.
What happened
In August 2022, Mrs E visited a branch to withdraw some money over the counter. Mrs E 
asked for £2,800 in cash, which was intended to be used on an upcoming holiday. The cash 
wasnt counted out to Mrs E before she took it. 
After returning home, Mr and Mrs E say the cash, which was in a sealed envelope, was put 
in a drawer, upstairs in their bedroom. They said they didnt count it as they trusted the Bank 
to have not made any errors. 
Two week later, the day before the holiday, they said they counted the money but it was 
£800 short. They contacted Lloyds to request the missing cash. After investigating, Lloyds 
said that there had been no till errors or discrepancies on the day Mrs E made her 
withdrawal, and as the tills and teller cash recycler (TCR) correctly balanced it was unwilling 
to give them the money. 
Mr and Mrs E remained unhappy, so they contacted our service for an independent review. 
An investigator here looked at what had happened but, overall, he didnt think there was 
enough evidence to conclude that Lloyds had done anything wrong in the situation, 
especially as the tills had balanced on the day of the withdrawal.
Mr and Mrs E were still unhappy, so asked for an ombudsmans decision. They said that 
Lloyds were responsible for the missing cash. They also said that they didnt think it was fair 
that Lloyds had not sent them the CCTV footage they had requested. 
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. 
I understand how strongly Mr and Mrs E feel about this complaint. They have raised a 
number of points and although I may not mention every point raised, Ive considered 
everything they have said but limited my findings to the areas which impact on the outcome 
of the case. No discourtesy is intended by this. It just reflects the informal nature of our 
service. 
I think its also important to note that where we dont have clear evidence of exactly what has 
happened, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, what I 
conclude here will be based upon what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence.
From what Ive seen, I dont think it is unreasonable for Lloyds to come to the conclusions it 
has, I say this because:
I have reviewed the cashbox and TCR totals and I can see that they balanced on the 
day that the transaction took place. While this might not be absolute proof of what 
happened, it is persuasive. And if Mrs E was given the wrong amount of cash, Id 
have expected it to come to light when the branch was cashing up at the end of the 
day. But no such issues were reported
Lloyds informed us that two £10 notes are dispatched at the end of a transaction.   
Mr and Mrs E confirmed that they received two £10 notes, this indicates the full 
withdrawal occurred
There is a 2-week period between the transaction and the discrepancy being 
discovered. I cant be 100% sure that a third party didnt manage to access the 
envelope within this time
Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Es request for CCTV footage to show just what 
happened on the day in question. I understand why they would want to see this, but I dont 
think it would make a material difference here. Thats because this dispute is about how 
much Mrs E was given over the counter, and CCTV is unlikely to be able to confirm that. 
Lloyds have also told us that the CCTV footage is facing the customer rather than the 
cashier. I therefore dont think CCTV  or lack of it  is something that needs to be 
considered further. 
Overall, the circumstances surrounding this complaint are finely balanced and it isnt 
possible for me to know with complete certainty what happened. I empathise with Mr and 
Mrs E, clearly this matter has been distressing. But based on the evidence I have available, 
and for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont require Lloyds to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Sarah Green
Ombudsman