DRN-3383801
The complaint
Mr W complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited shared his information with a third 
party. 
What happened
Mr W has an account that is managed by Link. In 2007, whilst unwell, Mr W appointed his 
wife (Mrs W) and a third party (Ms S) to act on his behalf and deal with Link. 
In January 2008 a payment arrangement for £50 a month was agreed. Around the same 
time, Mr W wrote to Link and asked for a paying in book or account details to make 
payments. Mr W also asked for future communication to be sent to Mrs Ws email address 
and not to call. Mr W also asked that future correspondence should be directed to Mrs W. 
Payments have been made on that basis ever since. In September 2021 Link contacted Mr 
W about the arrangement as it wanted to complete a review. Mr W responded and said he 
was willing for the existing arrangement to continue. Mr W also offered a one off payment to 
settle the debt. 
Link emailed Mr W and asked him to confirm the source of the funds he was intending to use 
to settle. Mr W responded to say the savings had come about due to a temporary reduction 
in commuting costs. 
Link says it had further questions so took the decision to call the number it had on file. The 
telephone number belonged to Ms A who was still named as a third party with authority to 
discuss Mr Ws account on Links systems. Ms A successfully answered the security 
questions and Link asked about Mr Ws circumstances. 
Mr W went on to raise a complaint with Link. Mr W explained that he is no longer connected 
with Ms A and was concerned that private information had been shared with her without his 
consent. Link responded to Mr Ws complaint but didnt agree it had acted unfairly. Link said 
Mr W had given Ms A third party authority discuss his account with it in September 2007 and 
hadnt withdrawn it. Link also said it wanted to discuss Mr Ws settlement offer more 
efficiently so called the only telephone number it had on file. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ws complaint and upheld it. The investigator 
thought a letter Mr W sent in 2008 shouldve told Link he wanted to remove Ms A from his 
account. They asked Link to pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Link didnt 
agree with the investigator so Mr Ws complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its response to the investigator, Link said it hadnt received an instruction from Mr W to 
remove Ms A from his account. Link has highlighted Mr Ws letter from January 2008. I 
agree that letter doesnt include a request for Link to remove Ms A from the account. But Mr 
W did make some specific requests in his letter to Link. Mr W said: 
I would also ask that all future communication be in either writing or by email (to Mrs W), 
please note that telephone calls will not be answered. 
Would you please direct all correspondence to my wife, Mrs W, at the above address as she 
is dealing with my affairs at the present time. 
Link says it called the only telephone number it had on file (which belonged to Ms A) after it 
received an email from Mr W offering to settle the outstanding balance. But Mr W had given 
instructions that all correspondence shouldve been made by email to Mrs Ws address. 
Link says Ms A was able to answer security questions and provided information about Mr 
Ws circumstances. But Mr W is the account holder and has told us he no longer has any 
connection with Ms A. Im satisfied thats the case.
Given the length of time (over a decade) since Link had spoken with Ms A who only ever had 
third party authority to discuss Mr Ws account, Im surprised it disregarded his 
communication preferences. Mr W clearly asked all future correspondence to be made by 
email and for no phone calls. And Mr W made his offer by email. I think the fairest approach 
if Link was unsure how to contact Mr W wouldve been to check rather than call Ms A. 
Our investigator recommended Link pay Mr W £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by contacting Ms A. Mr W has given us some very personal information about his 
mental health and why sharing information with someone he is no longer connected to is 
particularly upsetting. In Mr Ws circumstances, I can understand why he found Links 
actions to be so distressing. 
I also think its fair to note that even after Mr W complained to Link, it didnt remove Ms A 
from his account. Instead Links final response asked Mr W to confirm thats a step he 
wanted it to take. I can understand why this caused additional upset for Mr W given the 
complaint hed made. 
Having considered everything Mr W has told us, Im satisfied the issues raised have had a 
significant impact on him. In my view, a figure of £500 fairly reflects the level of distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr W. As a result Im upholding Mr Ws complaint and directing 
Link to pay him £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Link Financial Outsourcing Limited 
to pay him a total of £500 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman