DRN-2225761
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy AXA Insurance UK Plc wont cover a claim he made for a shattered 
splashback under his contents insurance policy. 
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy defines contents as being household goods and personal items, within the 
property, which belong to you or for which you are legally responsible for. It then 
goes on to list the types of items considered as being contents. A splashback is not 
one of them. The policy goes on to explain it is intended to provide cover for non-
permanent fittings and gives carpets and curtains as an example.
 
AXA also provide cover for buildings, but Mr C didnt choose this level of cover, 
however its important to note for this complaint that part of the definition of buildings 
is fixtures and fittings including solar panels that are attached to the property. And, 
that part of the policy goes on to explain its intended to provide cover for permanent 
fixtures and fittings such as kitchen units, bathroom fittings and fitted wardrobes.
The splashback is fitted to the wall in the kitchen and therefore is attached to the 
property. I dont think it is generally considered to be something that is readily 
movable, more that it is designed to be a permanent fixture of a kitchen. As such I 
dont think it falls under the definition of contents under the policy Mr C had. I 
therefore dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably by telling Mr C his claim 
wouldnt be met under his contents policy. As Mr C didnt have buildings insurance 
cover AXA doesnt need to consider the claim any further.
Mr C has said a splashback is similar to a carpet in that it isnt usually movable, 
however AXA and other insurers have made a commercial decision to specifically 
include carpets under contents cover. I appreciate Mr Cs point here, however, I can 
only consider the terms and conditions of the policy he has. And, as Ive explained 
above, Im not persuaded the splashback was intended to be covered under his 
contents policy.
AXA offered Mr C £25 compensation for not sending him copies of policy 
documentation after he had asked for it.  I think this is reasonable and reflects the 
trouble and upset Mr C was caused by this. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman