DRN-2566155
The complaint
Mr A has complained about his broker Towergate Underwriting Group Limited. Towergate 
had arranged landlords insurance cover for Mr As property which he lets out. The insurer 
said it was avoiding the policy (treating it as though it had never existed) and, by association, 
it was declining a fire claim Mr A had made. All on account of information Towergate had not 
told it when the policy was arranged.
What happened
Towergate had arranged cover for Mr A over a number of years. During that time he had 
always let to a family with the local council having organised the letting. Towergate arranged 
cover at renewal in 2018. It told the insurer that the tenant type was private residential.
In October 2018 there was a fire at the property. Mr A called Towergate to make a claim. 
When Towergate was processing that it noted the discrepancy with the tenant type and 
asked the insurer to update its record to show the tenant received some benefits but also 
worked part-time. It seems the insurer would have accepted that, but it later found out that 
Mr A had no involvement with the letting arrangements. It said that was unacceptable to it 
and avoided the cover. 
Towergate wrote to Mr A. It acknowledged it had given incorrect information to the insurer. It 
said it was looking into the situation. Mr A complained to us.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said Towergate should consider the claim, write 
a letter for Mr A explaining the avoidance was its fault and pay £150 compensation. 
Towergate didnt reply. Mr A accepted the findings. The complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A policyholder uses a company like Towergate to arrange insurance because they trust it, as 
an expert in insurance, to look after their needs and make sure arranged cover is suitable for 
their needs. Mr A likely wouldnt have known that his insurer would have wanted to know 
about his letting arrangements. But Towergate should have done. And it has accepted it 
failed Mr A by not passing correct information to the insurer. 
There have been significant consequences for Mr A on account of Towergates failure. He 
has lost his insurance cover, hell find it difficult to get cover in the future and his claim for fire 
damage will not be settled by the insurer. Reasonably, because those consequences are 
Towergates fault, Towergate has to make up for them. 
Towergate cant reinstate Mr As insurance or remove the record of the avoidance from his 
history  but it can write a letter, which he can show to future insurers, explaining that the 
avoidance was its fault. 
It can also step into the insurers shoes and consider the fire claim, using a loss adjuster as 
the insurer would have done, ultimately settling the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy that was in place. Of course if Mr A has had to do any work himself 
and the policy usually lets the insurer settle based on what it would have cost it to do the 
work, Towergate will have to forego that clause and settle based on Mr As costs. As Mr A 
should have had assistance from the policy from the outset of the claim, Towergate should 
add interest* to any cash settlement it pays. 
It should also pay Mr A £150 compensation. This for the upset and frustration I know its poor 
handling of his cover arrangements has caused.
Whilst I know the price of Mr As cover has increased, I cant know with any degree of 
certainty that this increase, or what portion of it, is due to the avoidance. It seems that the 
way Mr A lets his property is a method which many mainstream insurers are uninclined to 
take on. That means the cost of cover is always likely to be more expensive. But hopefully, if 
any part of the price Mr A is being charged is influenced by the avoidance, the letter Im 
requiring Towergate to write for him will allow future insurers to accept Mr A was not 
responsible for misrepresenting his risk profile to the insurer. Hopefully that will assist with 
limiting the impact the avoidance would otherwise have on the premium charged. 
 
Putting things right
I uphold this complaint. I require Towergate to:
Write a letter for Mr A, explaining the avoidance was its fault.
Using a loss adjuster to consider and apply the policy that was in place, settle the fire 
claim.
Where such settlement is made for costs Mr A has incurred, base settlement on his 
outlay.
On any cash settlement for the claim paid to Mr A, add interest* from the date of loss 
until settlement is made. 
Pay Mr A £150 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Towergate considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from any interest due to Mr A, it should tell him how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Towergate Underwriting Group Limited to provide the 
redress set out in putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman