DRN-3323065
The complaint
Miss H complains Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to her 
alongside a mortgage. 
What happened
PPI was sold to Miss H in May 1998. The policy started in September 1998 at the same time 
as the mortgage. She paid £45 in total for the PPI policy. This was made up of three 
premiums of £15. The policy was cancelled by Lloyds with effect from 11 January 1999 
because of a problem with Miss Hs direct debit. No further premiums were charged after this 
date. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Miss H strongly disagreed with 
that view. She said she was told by Lloyds that she had to take the PPI policy out or her 
mortgage would not be agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss H, but for the reasons set out above, I havent upheld this 
complaint. Ill explain why below. 
PPI was sold to Miss H during a meeting at Lloyds. I cant know what was said during that 
meeting. So to help me decide whats most likely to have happened, Ive looked at what Miss 
H remembers about it. And Ive also considered the documentary evidence thats available 
from the relevant time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Miss H would have known the PPI was optional 
and she didnt have to take it out if she didnt want it. Miss H is adamant that Lloyds told her 
that her mortgage wouldnt be agreed if she didnt take a PPI policy out. I know that what 
Miss H told us is what she honestly remembers about the sale. But I also have to bear in 
mind that this policy was sold over 20 years ago. And it is difficult to remember precisely 
what happened such a long time ago. 
I can see from the documentation sent to Miss H shortly after the sale that it was clear the 
PPI was optional and that it wasnt a compulsory feature of the mortgage. In that 
correspondence, Lloyds said she could cancel the policy within 30 days without cost by 
returning a form. By this point, Miss Hs mortgage had been arranged and the mortgage 
funds had been drawn down. So I think if the policy had been portrayed as a condition of the 
mortgage at the point of sale, she would have cancelled or at least queried the upon receipt 
of that correspondence. The evidence doesnt suggest she did. 
Lloyds advised Miss H to take the PPI policy out. So it had to take reasonable steps to make 
sure the cover was suitable for her needs. To help me decide whether the cover was 
suitable, Ive looked at what we know about the policys terms and conditions. And Ive also 
looked at what Miss H told us about her personal circumstances from when the policy was 
sold. 
I can see that if Miss H needed to make a claim on the PPI policy, her mortgage and home 
insurance repayments would have been covered for every month she was off sick or if she 
was made redundant. Each claim could have lasted for up to 12 months. She would have 
also received an additional monthly cash payment at the same time. 
I know Miss H had some sick pay through her employer. But it looks as though the PPI 
would have lasted for longer than her full sick pay. I think it would have also lasted for longer 
than her redundancy entitlement. Miss H says she didnt need the cover because one of her 
family members acted as her guarantor. But with the PPI policy, her repayments would have 
been protected without her having to rely on that family member for assistance. I need to 
stress that Miss Hs mortgage was secured on her home, which could have been at risk if 
she fell behind with her mortgage repayments. 
Ive checked whether Miss H would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions or 
limitations. I understand Miss H was in good health at the time the cover was sold. So I dont 
think she would have been affected by any of the policys exclusions around medical 
conditions.  I havent seen anything else that was unusual about her employment 
circumstances that would have stopped her from being able to make a successful claim if 
she needed to. Putting all of this together, I think Lloyds recommendation probably was 
suitable for Miss Hs circumstances at the point of sale. 
Even so, Lloyds still had to give Miss H enough information about the PPI so she could 
decide for herself whether the cover was a good fit for her needs. That information had to be 
clear, fair and not misleading. I accept it is possible that Lloyds didnt tell Miss H everything it 
should have done about the PPI. But Ive set out above how the cover could have been 
helpful at what could have been a difficult time if Miss H was out of work. With that in mind, I 
dont think she would have acted differently if Lloyds had given her more or better 
information about the cover. 
I am sorry to disappoint Miss H, but for the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. Lloyds will not need to take any further action in respect of it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman