DRN-4003596
The complaint
Mr J has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim under his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J damaged his watch. He had it repaired and submitted a claim to AXA. AXA investigated 
the claim and declined it. It said the watch was worth more than £5,000 and hadnt been 
inspected or fixed in the previous three years, which was a requirement of the policy. 
When Mr J complained, AXA maintained its decision to decline the claim. So, Mr J 
complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Mr Js watch was 
insured for £5,000 and although AXA said the watch was now worth more than that, prices 
could fluctuate a lot. He said it wasnt clear the watch was worth the amount AXA said it was. 
He said it wasnt fair for AXA to decline that claim and it should pay the repair cost and £100 
compensation.
As AXA didnt reply, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
AXA declined the claim because of a policy term that said:
For physical damage claims, cover isnt provided for:
 Jewellery or watches worth more than £5,000 individually that have not been inspected and 
fixed (where a fix is needed) by a Qualified Jeweller within three years of the claim being 
made.
Mr J paid £4,800 for the watch a few years before and it was insured for £5,000. Ive looked 
at how AXA considered the claim. At some points it seemed to think there might be an issue 
because of the policy wording and that the watch was insured at £5,000. The wording said 
it needed to be worth more than £5,000. So, I dont think the wording can fairly be 
interpreted as applying to items worth £5,000. At other points, the discussion seemed to 
focus on the watch being worth more than £5,000. However, I havent seen evidence that 
showed the watch was worth more than £5,000 at the time of the claim. Im aware AXA has 
said it is now worth more than that, but Im not persuaded that this shows the value at the 
time of the claim or that the watch was worth more than £5,000. 
I note that the policy also said:
We will treat You fairly if the value of an item changes during the Period of Insurance. For 
example, if the price of gold were to suddenly double during the life of the policy, We would 
take this into account at point of claim.
I havent seen evidence that AXA took this into account to see if it affected its view of the 
watchs value and how the claim should be considered. Overall, Im not persuaded that AXA 
acted fairly by applying the wording for an item worth more than £5,000.
I also note that while it was considering the claim, AXA discussed it internally and said: As 
this is impact and the inspection would not have changed the outcome we can cover this 
claim." But, within the same email, then said it would strictly apply the wording anyway and 
decided to decline the claim. So, AXA didnt seem to think that an inspection would have 
made any difference, given the circumstances of the claim. But, it declined it anyway. In my 
view, that further shows that AXA didnt give Mr Js claim fair consideration.
Having considered all the evidence, I uphold this complaint. I require AXA to pay Mr Js 
costs for repairing the watch, which was £1,285. I also think Mr J was caused distress and 
concern by the way AXA considered his claim. So, I also think AXA should pay Mr J £100 
compensation.
Putting things right
AXA should pay £1,285 to settle the claim and £100 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is upheld. I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr J £1,285 to settle the claim and £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman