DRN-2115709
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank plc delayed the switching of his current account to a different 
provider.
What happened
Mr B had a current account with TSB, but wanted to switch to a different provider, using the 
current account switching service. The switch didnt go ahead on the date hed selected, and 
on 19 September 2019 he contacted TSB to try to find out why that was.
Initially, Mr B was unable to find out the reason for the delay, but TSB did later explain that 
his account had been under review. The switch couldnt be finalised until the review was 
complete. The review was completed and blocks lifted the following day, 20 September 
2019, but it was over a week until the TSB account was closed. 
Mr B was unhappy that the switch had been delayed and that he had had to spend time 
trying to find out what the problem was. He didnt think TSB had been helpful in explaining 
things. The bank said that internal account reviews were part of its processes and that it 
didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Mr B referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered it. She 
agreed with TSB that it had been within its rights to review the account and didnt 
recommend that it do anything further to resolve Mr Bs complaint. Mr B didnt accept the 
investigators opinion and asked that an ombudsman review the case.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The current account switching service is designed to ensure  indeed to guarantee  that 
customers can easily move their accounts between different providers. An application is 
made to the new provider, which contacts the existing provider to arrange for the transfer of 
the account along with, for example, existing direct debits. The customer is able to choose 
the date on which the switch takes place. It is, therefore, understandable that Mr B was both 
concerned and unhappy when it appeared that his switch was not going smoothly and he 
was unable to find out why. TSB subsequently explained to Mr B that his account had been 
subject to review. It said that internal checks were part of the terms and conditions of the 
account. Those terms dont say expressly that TSB can conduct reviews, or that the account 
might be blocked while that happens; they do however say that the bank has security 
systems to keep accounts safe. In my view, it wasnt unreasonable for TSB to review the 
activity on Mr Bs account when it did. 
I can understand too why Mr B is unhappy that TSB didnt explain the reasons for the delay 
in switching the account. However, given that the review was a security check, I wouldnt 
expect it to do so. To do so might have compromised the checks that were being carried out. 
I dont doubt of course that this was immensely frustrating for Mr B, but I can only require 
TSB to compensate him for that frustration if I conclude that the bank did something wrong. 
For the reasons Ive explained, however, I dont believe that it did.      
My final decision 
My final decision is that I dont require TSB Bank plc to do anything further to resolve Mr Bs 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman