DRN-2907078
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Miss B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Miss B bought the PPI at the same time as taking out a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. As Miss B disagreed, the 
matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear that Miss B didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. I say this 
because Ive seen Miss Bs signed credit card application form. This has a section in it 
headed Form of Consent under which there is a box to tick if she wants to purchase 
PPI. I can see that the box has been ticked and the section has been signed separately 
from the application form as a whole;
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss B so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have to make sure Miss B got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her; 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  such as 
those affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition. So it would have been 
useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover; 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
Ive thought about everything Miss B has said - including what she has said about another 
complaint relating to the sale of PPI having been accepted by the relevant financial 
business. But this has no bearing on this case. I must make my decision on it based on its 
own facts and surrounding circumstances, which is what Ive done. So this comment doesnt 
change my decision.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss B because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss B about that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Miss B, that was unfair;
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss B.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Miss B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 August 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman