DRN-2528167
complaint and background
Mr M and Ms M say that Yorkshire Building Society (trading as Chelsea Building Society) 
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection (MPPI) policy.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint, and Mr M and Mrs M disagreed with this, so the 
complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
I disagreed with the outcome the adjudicator had reached  and sent all parties a provisional 
decision explaining that I thought that Mr M and Ms Ms complaint should be upheld.
Yorkshire Building Society disagreed with this - so I now need to make a final decision.
Ive included my provisional findings, which form part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr M and Ms Ms case
(taken from my provisional findings)
having done so, I disagree with the outcome the adjudicator has reached  and I think that 
the complaint should be upheld because I dont think that Yorkshire Building Society gave 
clear enough information about the policy  and I think that this wouldve mattered to Mr M 
and Ms M. Ill explain why.
When our adjudicator looked at the complaint, they recognised that Ms M had a pre-existing
medical condition  and that after an accident in 2003, she damaged several vertebrae 
causing ongoing and serious back problems. But they said that the policy didnt exclude pre-
existing conditions.
But when I looked at the policy documents, I can see that the policy did exclude pre-existing
conditions that were ongoing  and from what Ms M has said about what happened, and I
think that her accident did cause ongoing medical issues.
So, with this in mind, I dont think that she wouldve bought the policy if shed been given
enough information about it  and realised she wouldnt be able to make a claim for anything
related to her pre-existing condition. And I think that Mr M and Ms M have lost out because
of what Yorkshire Building Society did wrong.
Yorkshire Building Societies response
Yorkshire Building society said (in summary) that it made it clear to Ms M that the policy was 
optional  and that she chose to take it out. It says that information was provided that 
showed the costs, benefits, and level of cover/excess period  and that it was Ms Ms 
responsibility to check how any exclusions would affect her as the sale was non-advised. It 
also says that the exclusions on pre-existing conditions were provided on page 14 of the 
policy document  and that Ms M made an informed decision in taking out the policy. 
It says that it asked Ms M to read the documents carefully  and to ensure the policy was 
suitable for her needs  and that it shouldnt be penalised for undisclosed medical 
conditions.
Ive thought about what Yorkshire Building Society has said  but Im afraid that this doesnt 
change my decision  and I still think that the complaint should be upheld.
I should firstly say that this complaint hasnt been upheld because I found that Yorkshire 
Building Society didnt give Mr and Ms M a choice in taking out MPPI, or that Yorkshire 
Building Society provided unsuitable advice  but rather that the information it provided 
wasnt clear enough for Ms M to make up her own mind if the policy was right for her.
Ms M clearly had an ongoing, and debilitating condition  so I think that if the information had 
been clear enough, Ms M wouldve realised that she wouldnt have been able to claim on the 
policy for anything which related to her condition- and I think that its also likely she wouldve 
thought that there was a possibility she would need to, given the seriousness of it. 
So, I think that this wouldve made a difference to her decision in taking the policy, and that 
Ms M wouldnt have taken the MPPI. 
putting things right
Yorkshire Building Society should put Mr M and Ms M back in the position theyd be in now if
they hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already,
and Yorkshire Building Society should:
- Pay Mr M and Ms M the amount they paid each month for the PPI
- Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 8% a year.
- If Mr M and Ms M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Yorkshire Building
Society can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Yorkshire Building Society to take off tax from this interest.
Yorkshire Building Society must give Mr M and Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off
if they ask for one. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
Yorkshire Building Society (trading as Chelsea Building Society) should put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 March 2021. 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman