DRN-1650968
The complaint
Mrs G says Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited (LV) mis-sold her a Long Term 
Care policy. 
What happened
In 2003 Mrs G and her partner, now husband, were looking for some investment advice on a 
lump sum shed received. As part of this meeting the advisor went through different products 
available to Mrs G, including Long Term Care.
Mrs G says she didn't have a need for this type of cover. Shes explained that they were only 
looking for investment advice, not to buy any insurance. Shes said she thought that shed 
been paying for something that would grow and boost her pension, not a Long Term care 
policy.
LV said that its advisor had completed a Financial Planning Review with Mrs G to confirm 
her aims and objectives  and also completed a questionnaire, followed-up with a Reasons 
Why letter setting out his recommendations. From the paperwork LV determined the policy 
did cover a short-fall the advisor had identified and was suitably recommended to Mrs G. It 
considered Mrs G had understood at the time what she was taking out and accepted the 
recommendation made. 
Mrs G didn't agree with LVs outcome. She maintained that shed never had a need for this 
type of cover and it wasn't made clear to her what she was taking out. So she brought her 
complaint to our service. Our investigator didn't uphold the case, as she considered the 
paperwork from 2003 did make it clear what the policy was and as there were two meetings 
and a recommendation letter, she felt Mrs G had the time and information to understand 
what she was taking out.
Mrs G disagreed and explained the other means she had in place to cover this type of 
situation. She explained she was looking for all her premiums refunded and felt the language 
used by financial services didn't make it clear to ordinary people what was and wasn't being 
offered. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this case I have taken into account both Mrs Gs recollections of the meetings 
with the advisor as well as the paperwork that was completed at the time. As our investigator 
set out to Mrs G, we do have to weigh up the evidence available. So while I of course put 
some weight on what shes told us  and appreciate she was at the meeting unlike the 
person who has presented LVs side to us  I also have to consider that it has been 17 years 
since this meeting took place and recollections do naturally fade over time.The paperwork from the sale indicates that the advisor followed the industry guidelines from 
this time on recommending a policy. It shows a discussion took place around the likely cost 
of long term care in the future for both Mrs G and her future husband  and that looking at 
her income and pension, she didn't have enough to pay out this figure if shed needed to. So 
he had identified a shortfall and recommended a product to cover this. I can see this 
recommendation was written up in the 'Reasons Why' letter issued a few weeks after the 
meeting. And then it was a further two weeks later when the application was completed for 
the policy. So it does seem the recommendation was suitable based on the information the 
advisor had. And that Mrs G was given time to consider whether she wanted to follow this 
recommendation and take out this kind of cover. Ive also seen a letter correctly addressed 
to Mrs G from April 2003 which includes her schedule summarising the cover she had and 
sets out that her policy booklet is enclosed. So at this time she also had the opportunity to 
review the cover shed taken out.
In reviewing the paperwork, Ive also looked at the application form that was completed for 
the policy. Because this policy relates to providing a benefit when someone needs additional 
support in their daily living, the application includes questions about the applicants health 
and medical history.
I can see details were provided about Mrs Gs height, weight, the name of her doctors 
surgery and a full list of questions were answered regarding her and her familys medical 
history. And shes signed this application and the direct debit that goes with it. Whilst I 
appreciate what Mrs Gs recollections now are, the paperwork shes signed at the time does 
suggest she was taking out an insurance product  especially considering the personal 
medical questions that were being asked of her. I cant agree that these would be typical of 
the questions asked for someone taking out an investment product  and I can see Mrs G 
and her partner did have other investments. So I think if Mrs G was falsely under the 
impression she was taking out an investment at the time, these personal questions wouldve 
prompted her to seek clarification from the advisor.
I appreciate Mrs G says she didnt have any need for this type of cover and has explained 
why this is the case. But the paperwork completed and signed by her doesn't set out the 
same financial situation shes now told us  it does indicate a shortfall. So on that basis I 
cant see the advisor was wrong to recommend this cover. And as I consider the paperwork 
and recommendation were both clear about what benefit the policy provided, I cant agree 
that this policy was mis-sold to her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2020.
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman