DRN-1987496
The complaint
Miss C says Morses Club PLC (Morses) irresponsibly lent to her. Miss C says Morses 
repeatedly lent to her while she was receiving benefits and couldnt afford the loans. As a 
result, Miss C got into debt with her other bills as she couldnt keep up with those payments. 
What happened
This complaint is about nine home collected credit loans provided to Miss C between 
October 2016 and December 2019. Miss Cs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate Repaid Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount Weekly 
Repayment
1 14/10/2016 22/03/2017 33 £400.00 £20.00
2 06/01/2017 16/08/2017 33 £200.00 £10.00
3 22/03/2017 25/08/2017 33 £600.00 £30.00
4 25/08/2017 04/04/2018 33 £800.00 £40.00
5 04/04/2018 12/12/2018 33 £800.00 £40.00
6 12/06/2018 08/05/2018 33 £150.00   £7.50
7 11/12/2018 17/12/2019 33 £800.00 £40.00
8 08/05/2019 £21.01
outstanding*33 £150.00   £7.50
9 17/12/2019 £1,162.81 
outstanding*34 £800.00 £40.00
*Outstanding balance as at 13 February 2020.
Our adjudicator reviewed Miss Cs complaint and thought that the complaint should be 
upheld from loan five onwards because the borrowing was becoming unsustainable.
Morses didnt agree with the adjudicator about loan five but it did offer redress for loans six 
to nine. For loan five it said Miss Cs income and expenditure didnt give it any cause for 
concern. It also said Miss C was using the lending for non-essential spending. 
We put the offer to Miss C, but she didnt want to accept it. And Morses comments didnt 
change the adjudicators opinion about loan five. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could consider several different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a 
lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Morses was required to establish 
whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint. Having done so, I am partially upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Morsess lending history with Miss C, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Morses should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Morses should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Cs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan five. I say this because:
At this point Morses ought to have realised Miss C was not managing to repay her 
loans sustainably. Miss C had been indebted to Morses for 18 months. So Morses ought to have realised it was more likely than not Miss C was having to borrow 
further to finance day-to-day living expenses  however she was choosing to spend 
the lending.
Miss Cs first loan was for £400 and loan loan five was for £800.  At this point Morses 
ought to have known that Miss C was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary 
shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Miss Cs borrowing pattern would suggest the lending was unsustainable for her as I 
note she often repaid one loan the same day a further loan was taken. As examples, 
loan one was repaid early on 22 March 2017 the same day that loan three was taken. 
And loan three was for a larger amount which would suggest that Miss C was 
borrowing further to repay current borrowing. 
This happened again with loan three being repaid the same day that Miss C 
borrowed a higher amount when she took loan four. Loan five was taken the same 
day loan four was repaid. This behaviour is consistent with the lending being 
unsustainable and which proved to be the case as loans eight and nine are 
outstanding. 
Miss C wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Morses. Loan nine 
was taken out three years after Miss Cs first. And it was for a larger amount. Miss C 
had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Morses over an 
extended period.
I think that Miss C lost out because Morses continued to provide borrowing from loan loan 
five onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Cs indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Miss C borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Miss Cs ability to access mainstream credit and 
so kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, like the adjudicator, Im also upholding the complaint about loans five to nine and Morses 
should put things right.
Putting things right
If the outstanding balance due on Miss Cs loans has been transferred to a third party 
Morses should buy the loan/s back if it can. If Morses cant buy the loans back, then it 
needs to work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss C towards interest, fees 
and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss C which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss C as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss C having made overpayments then Morses should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step 
E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Miss C. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Miss C. 
E) The number of loans taken from loan five onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse. So, all entries about loans five to nine should be 
removed from Miss Cs credit file. Morses does not have to remove loans eight and 
nine from Miss Cs credit file until these have been repaid, but any adverse 
information recorded about these loans should still be removed.
                                                                                                                                 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to take off tax from this interest. Morses must 
give Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Miss C still has an outstanding balance due, then Morses should try 
and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Miss C in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Morses of its obligation to treat Miss C fairly. 
My final decision
Im partially upholding Miss Cs complaint. Morses Club PLC should put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman