DRN-3597288
The complaint
Mr B complains HSBC Bank UK Plc did not comply with his request to change how his name 
is displayed on posted credit card correspondence.
What happened
Mr B wrote to HSBC more than once asking it change how his name is displayed on all 
credit card postal correspondence to title/forename first initial/surname as he felt it would be 
more secure. He received no reply. He then called and was twice told his requested change 
would be made, but it did not happen. Also, he is unhappy he wasnt told the banks postal 
address had changed.
When Mr B complained HSBC explained the letters Mr B sent with his name change request 
had not been received. It said he had been given incorrect information by phone as the 
change he wanted was not possible on its system. For this it apologised and paid £100 
compensation for any inconvenience caused.
Mr B says this issue has cost him time writing letters and making calls and impacted his 
mental health due to his data not being protected. To resolve his complaint he asks for 
HSBC to update its systems so his name can be displayed as his wishes; an apology from a 
director; compensation for his wasted time; for the staff who gave the wrong information to 
be disciplined; and for all staff to receive the necessary training. He is also unhappy with the 
time taken by HSBC to reply to his complaint.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He first said as complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity we cannot review that, but HSBC had responded within the required eight 
weeks. He then explained he found HSBCs response to be fair. It had accepted it gave 
incorrect information and £100 was reasonable compensation for the inconvenience this 
caused. He said we cannot instruct a bank to change its systems and HSBC has explained 
that what Mr B wants is not possible on its credit card statementing system. He found 
HSBCs suggestion to switch to online statementing to be helpful. HSBC had not received 
the initial letters Mr B sent which was why it had not responded.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr B asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read and thought about all of Mr Bs comments carefully, including his response to the 
investigators assessment. In keeping with our role as an informal dispute resolution service, 
and as our rules allow, I will comment here only on those issue I find to be material to the 
outcome of his complaint. 
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
The parties are not in dispute about what happened: after requesting a change to his 
displayed name (initially in letters that were not received by the bank) Mr B was incorrectly 
told on two phone calls that this would happen. It later transpired it was not possible to do 
this on the credit card billing system. 
I think HSBCs responded fairly in these circumstances. It apologised for its error and offered 
Mr B £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Mr B is unhappy with this settlement offer. But I am unable to facilitate what he has asked 
for. He wants us to tell HSBC to change its system, but we do not have the powers to do 
that. Our role is to decide if, in the individual circumstances of each case, the bank made a 
mistake and if so how it should put right any detrimental impact  rather than to review a 
banks processes or systems. I hope Mr B can take some comfort from the fact HSBC has 
confirmed his feedback will be logged for any potential systems changes it make in the 
future. Similarly we do not have the power to punish a business so would not instruct HSBC 
to discipline its staff. 
Mr B was also unhappy he had not been told about the banks change of address for mail, 
either in advance or on the first call he made. Whilst perhaps frustrating, the bank had a 
forwarding system in place so I cant see this has impacted him. I am aware his letters didnt 
arrive, but it seems this was more likely as a result of a delivery problem and I cant therefore 
hold the bank liable for the non-receipt.
Mr B has already received an apology from HSBC in its final response letter, so I am not 
instructing it to send another. And I find £100 to be fair compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by HSBCs error that led Mr B to believe his name would be changed when in fact it 
couldnt be.
I am sorry Mr Bs mental health has been impacted as he is worried about protecting his 
personal data and he cannot make the change he wants to. In these circumstances, whilst 
not the precise solution Mr B wanted, I do think HSBCs suggestion to opt for online 
statementing might relieve some of his worry  if he is comfortable reviewing his bill online.
Finally, as our investigator has explained we cannot review how HSBC has managed Mr Bs 
complaint as complaint handing is not a regulated activity and so does not fall within our 
jurisdiction. I do note though that his complaint was logged on 16 February 2022 a dn he 
received a formal response on 25 March 2022, so within the required eight weeks.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman