DRN-2047238
Complaint
Mr K complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) 
when he took out a personal loan in 2001. 
Background
Mr K applied for a loan of £2,000 and was sold a single premium PPI policy at the same 
time. This type of PPI policy meant that it had to be paid for up front in one single payment. 
It cost £288 and this amount was also lent to Mr K by Lloyds. Both the loan and PPI part of 
the loan ran over a period of 30 months. 
Our adjudicator in this case said the complaint shouldnt be upheld but Mr K disagreed and 
the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Ive got no doubt Mr K genuinely feels now that this policy was mis-sold to him. However, 
weve been sent the original documentation he signed and from what we know about these 
types of sale, I think its likely that there would have been a discussion between the parties 
about the loan and whether Mr K wanted to have PPI with it. Based on that discussion, I 
think Mr K would have then been given a loan agreement, to check and sign, which included 
some figures about all the costs. 
Lloyds sent me Mr Ks agreement. It reflects what Ive described above and the PPI comes 
under a heading which says OPTIONAL LOAN PROTECTION. There are yes and no 
options for the PPI and I note the first of these was selected. Mr K signed and returned the 
form so I think this demonstrates he gave his consent to buying the PPI policy, although I 
accept he may have since forgotten about this.
Lloyds says this was an advised sale, so its responsibility included seeing that the PPI was 
suitable for Mr Ks circumstances. Overall, I think it was.
This is because I think Mr K was eligible for the cover and I dont think hed have been 
caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types of policies. He told us 
he had some sickness protection already through his job, implying he didnt need any PPI. I 
can fully understand why hes told us this but Im afraid it doesnt necessarily mean he didnt 
have a use for the policy. It could have paid out a monthly benefit in the event of him being 
unable to work through illness or losing his job completely and this would have been in 
addition to any other means he already had in place.The loan and the PPI policy also both ran for the same term lengths and if he cashed it in 
early, Mr K would have received, broadly, a proportionate sum back in comparison with how 
long into the loan period he was at that particular time. I therefore dont think Lloyds putting 
the PPI recommendation forward was wrong.
I obviously cant say that Mr K was told everything he should have been. However, the cost 
of the PPI was set out on the above form. It included both the loan cost, the cost of the PPI 
and the sum of these two amounts. It also showed Mr K a breakdown of the total sum he 
would end up paying each month for the loan and PPI. I therefore think he had enough 
information on which to make an informed decision.
I'm very sorry to disappoint Mr K, but dont think it was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. And I dont direct Lloyds 
Bank PLC to do anything to put matters right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman