DRN-2598600
The complaint
Mr C complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc incorrectly recorded adverse information on his 
credit file that led to his mortgage application being refused.
What happened
Mr C says Sainsburys failed to take a minimum required credit card payment. He says 
Sainsburys told him it was its mistake and it would remove any adverse information from his 
credit file. But it did not do so for some months and that led to his mortgage application being 
refused. Mr C says he hoped to buy a new house before his partner gave birth, but 
Sainsburys actions have prevented that, and he has provided evidence from his financial 
advisor that it was Sainsburys actions that led to the rejected mortgage application. He 
would like significant compensation for whats taken place and the distress he has been 
caused. Mr C says the mistake has cost him in the region of £30,000.
Sainsburys says Mr C didnt set up a direct debit when he first opened the credit card 
account and so it didnt make a mistake by not taking the required minimum payment. It 
accepts it didnt tell Mr C that when he called it about what took place and accepts it took too 
long to remove the adverse information. Sainsburys accepts that a second late payment 
marker was recorded due to its mistake and has apologised for that and its poor service. It 
offered a total of £185 compensation.
Mr C had brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
thought Mr C had provided evidence his credit score increased to the maximum when the 
adverse data was removed. But thought he couldnt be sure the rejected mortgage was due 
to Sainsburys actions alone and thought Mr Cs partner didnt have such a high credit score. 
The investigator thought Mr C hadnt set up the direct debit and so Sainsburys would have 
been correct to record one late payment marker on his credit file and that may have led to a 
mortgage application rejection in any event. The investigator didnt think Sainsburys had 
explained or dealt with matters appropriately and recommended it pay a further £115 
compensation making a total of £300.
Sainsburys doesnt accept that view.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and in summary says Sainsburys has accepted it made a 
mistake and questions why it didnt contact him to set up the direct debit and why the 
telephone call recordings are not available. He says he has now had a mortgage application 
accepted but on less favourable terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Sainsburys hasnt dealt appropriately 
with this complaint and ought to have been far clearer in its dealings with Mr C. But I dont 
think Sainsburys should pay the level of compensation Mr C would like. I appreciate Mr C 
will be disappointed by my decision. 
I have looked carefully at the credit card application which took place on 25 July 2019. Im 
satisfied that Mr C completed the application and didnt set up a direct debit to take the 
minimum required monthly repayment. And I can see that the credit card statements also 
confirmed that a direct debit wasnt set up. So, I dont think Sainsburys made a mistake in 
not taking a required monthly minimum payment by direct debit when Mr C hadnt set one 
up. I also dont think Sainsburys ought to have queried that with Mr C and couldnt have 
known what his intentions were. I also think Mr C ought reasonably to have noticed that a 
direct debit wasnt set up and that he must have made some of the required payments 
himself. 
There is no dispute here that when Mr C contacted Sainsburys he was given incorrect 
information and was told it had made a mistake and it would correct his credit file. So, I dont 
need to listen to any of the calls, as Im satisfied Mr C was given incorrect information by 
Sainsburys and that its clear the second missed payment was due to a Sainsburys 
mistake. Im satisfied that Sainsburys didnt give Mr C clear information about what took 
place and why, and incorrectly said it was at fault for both late payments when in fact it was 
not.
Im satisfied that if Sainsburys had looked carefully at Mr Cs complaint in early 2020 then it 
would have realised that one late payment marker was correctly recorded but the other was 
not. So, I think that Mr C has benefited from that mistake as Sainsburys agreed to remove 
all of the late markers from his credit file. I accept Sainsburys didnt remove those late 
markers as quickly as it ought to have.
The key issue for me to decide if Sainsburys actions led to Mr Cs mortgage application 
being rejected. I can see that the information from the lender (not the mortgage advisor) 
doesnt provide the exact reason for the mortgage rejection and I think lenders consider a 
variety of factors before deciding to lend. But I can also see that Mr Cs credit score 
improved to the maximum when the adverse information was removed.
I have to consider what should have happened here and I have made clear that Sainsburys 
didnt make a mistake or acted unfairly by recording the first missed payment on Mr Cs 
credit file. I accept it should have removed the second late payment marker far sooner. But I 
cant be sure what the effect of one late payment marker would have made to the lending 
decision. And so, I cant fairly conclude that Sainsburys actions in reporting two late markers 
instead of one would have made any difference to a mortgage application being rejected.
I think it likely that if Mr C had been given the correct information, that he missed a payment 
and that would have been reported on his credit file, then he may have delayed any 
mortgage application in any event. And would have been in a similar position to the one he is 
in now.
I accept Mr C was given incorrect information by Sainsburys and the service he received 
from it wasnt of an appropriate standard. But I can see Sainsburys has apologised and paid 
£185 compensation. I dont think that award goes far enough, and I agree with the 
investigator that Sainsburys should pay a total of £300 compensation. I think that award 
takes account of how long it took to remove the late payment markers, even though one was 
correctly applied, and is fair and reasonable. And I think it fairly takes into account the level 
of distress and inconvenience Mr C was caused. I dont think it fair or reasonable that 
Sainsburys pay for Mr Cs costs in getting his credit file.
Putting things rightI intend to order Sainsburys to pay a total of £300 compensation. It is not clear how much 
compensation it has paid. But I make clear the total award is £300, and it should deduct from 
that amount any compensation it has already paid, if Mr C accepts this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay 
Mr C a total of £300 compensation, less any payments it has already made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman