DRN-2274368
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that Zenith Insurance plc avoided (treated it as if it never existed) her 
motorbike insurance policy and refused to pay her claim following the theft of her bike.
What happened
Mrs R renewed her motorbike insurance policy with Zenith over the phone. She added fire 
and theft cover to her third-party only policy. When her motorbike was stolen from a garage 
beneath her flat, she tried to claim on her policy. 
Zenith declined Mrs Rs claim, avoided her policy and kept the premiums shed already paid. 
When Mrs R complained, it said shed answered the question shed been asked about where 
her motorbike was stored incorrectly. It said that if shed answered this correctly, then cover 
wouldnt have been offered. Zenith thought Mrs Rs misrepresentation had been careless 
and this entitled it to avoid her policy and refuse her claim. 
Mrs R brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought it should be upheld. He didnt 
agree there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. This was because he thought Zenith 
hadnt asked Mrs R a clear question about where the bike was to be stored. He said Zenith 
should consider Mrs Rs claim, refund her premiums from the date of the theft and pay her 
£200 compensation for her trouble and upset.
Zenith doesnt agree with the investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. It 
says that Mrs R made a misrepresentation at renewal and had a duty to disclose where the 
bike was stored. It also said that the bike was stored contrary to a policy endorsement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Zenith thinks Mrs R failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she didnt disclose that the overnight storage location of her bike was a shared underground 
car park rather than a private locked garage. 
Mrs R first took out her policy online. At renewal, she phoned Zeniths representatives to add 
fire and theft cover. She was offered a quote and told that the insurer accepted the cover as 
long as the bike was kept in a locked and secure garage. Otherwise, any theft claim would 
be invalidated. 
Mrs R appears to have acknowledged this. And Mrs R said she thought her bike was stored 
in a locked secure garage beneath her building. She said it was monitored by CCTV and 
users had fobs to access it. She also thought it was private as it was limited to residents in 
her building. 
Zeniths representative later told Mrs R:
We are responsible for ensuring that all relevant questions are asked, however, it is your 
responsibility to ensure the accuracy of your answer.
But I think Mrs R wasnt asked a question about where the bike was to be stored. She may 
have had to input this online when she first took out the policy. But she wasnt asked about 
overnight storage at renewal, when she took out her new contract. So Zenith didnt explain to 
Mrs R what it meant by a private locked and secure garage. And it didnt give her options to 
choose that suited her situation. So as no clear question was asked by Zenith, Mrs R 
couldnt have made a misrepresentation at renewal. 
Zenith says that in that case, the policy endorsement for overnight storage would apply. But I 
disagree as I think it was for Zenith to ask clear questions to ensure that the information 
gathered is accurate and complete. So I dont think it can fairly rely on an endorsement sent 
out after the policy was accepted to then avoid the policy and decline the claim. And so I 
think it was unfair and unreasonable for Zenith to avoid Mrs Rs policy and decline her claim. 
Therefore, Im not satisfied Zenith was entitled to avoid Mrs Rs policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And this means that Zenith does have to deal with her claim following the theft of her 
motorbike. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation 
cases, I think this produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
The result for Mrs R has been that shes not been able to replace her bike, and this has 
caused her inconvenience. She also had the trouble and upset of having to sort this matter 
out and it took some time and some chasing for Zenith to explain its decision to Mrs R. 
The investigator recommended that Zenith should pay Mrs R £200 compensation for this. I 
think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in similar 
circumstances. 
I can see that Zenith has provided Mrs R with a full refund of her premium less its agents administration costs of £25. I think thats fair and reasonable to cover the costs of 
administering the policy.
Putting things right
I require Zenith Insurance plc to do the following to restore Mrs Rs position:
1. Accept and settle Mrs Rs claim for the theft of her motorbike on the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
2. Remove records of the avoidance from any databases where its been recorded so that 
Mrs R need not declare the avoidance to future insurers.
3. Pay Mrs R £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
avoidance of her policy and declining her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. I require 
Zenith Insurance plc to carry out the redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman