DRN-1039513
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Virgin Money plc gave her incorrect information which led to her Easy 
Access Tracker account being closed.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs P says she visited a branch of Virgin Money to close two accounts that 
had been inactive for some time. A member of staff informed her there was another account 
that was also dormant with a balance of £303.49. So she was asked if she wanted to close 
this account and receive the funds, to which she said yes. A few days later Mrs P received 
her statement for her Easy Access Tracker account to see a zero balance and that a 
withdrawal had taken place for £303.49 in June. Mrs P realised that the funds she had 
agreed to take believing them to be from a dormant account were actually from her Easy 
Access Tracker account. So she contacted Virgin Money to notify it of the error.
Virgin Money has admitted that its staff had mistakenly told Mrs P she had a dormant 
account. Once it realised the error it reactivated the account so Mrs P could deposit the 
money. It also offered £150 compensation for the error.
Mrs P says she had already spent the money as she was told it was from a dormant account 
and feels Virgin Money should refund the total amount. A small pension is paid into it each 
month and Mrs P saves this until it gets to a certain amount and then uses it for a specific 
purpose. So she believes it was clear the account wasnt dormant.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and said Mrs P had full use of the funds. He felt 
it wouldn't be right to ask the business to pay the same amount again and he thought Virgin 
Money had offered a fair and reasonable amount of compensation in the circumstances.
Mrs P didnt agree. She feels Virgin Money have not put the mistake right and by only 
offering half the amount of money that was withdrawn is only admitting half of the mistake. 
Mrs P also provided the following statement that she found on the internet:
Money can only be taken from your account if you have authorised the transaction. If you 
notice a payment out of your account that you did not authorise, you should contact your 
bank immediately. If you did not authorise a particular payment you can claim a refund. The 
bank must refund the payment without undue delay and by the end of the business day 
following the day on which it became aware of the problem, unless it has reasonable 
grounds for suspecting that you have acted fraudulently. 
Because Mrs P remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, and whilst I appreciate 
this will disappoint Mrs P, Im not upholding her complaint and Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mrs P experienced here. Virgin Money has already 
accepted it was responsible for incorrectly identifying that Mrs P had a dormant account. So, 
the issue here is whether its acted fairly and reasonably in how its offered to put things 
right. In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. I realise that what 
happened must have been frustrating and worrying. But I think that once Virgin Money was 
aware of the problem, it acted promptly and correctly in accepting responsibility.
Its my role to decide whats fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of a dispute. 
So here, I have to take into account that although Mrs P wasnt aware the funds she agreed 
to take were from her Easy Access Tracker account and not a dormant account as she was 
led to believe, she did ultimately receive her money - albeit she has spent it. It hasnt been 
lost in the same way it wouldve been if it was for example taken in a fraudulent transaction 
or transferred to someone Mrs P didnt know. With this in mind, I dont think itd be fair for me 
to tell Virgin Money to pay Mrs P another £303.49.
Mrs P also sent us a statement she found on the internet. This statement is usually in 
relation to fraudulent activity on an account i.e. when money has been taken from an 
account by way of a scam. In this case Mrs P did give authorisation to withdraw the money 
and had the benefit of it although I accept she did this based on incorrect information given 
to her by member of staff at Virgin Money. 
I agree Virgin Money shouldnt have made the mistake  but it doesnt mean that it should 
put the mistake right by giving Mrs P another £303.49. When a customer is given incorrect 
information, the right response is to correct the information, not to make things as if the 
information was correct.
Ive assessed whether the level of compensation Virgin Money offered Mrs P appropriately 
recognises what happened. I appreciate Mrs P feels very strongly about the issues raised in 
this complaint and Ive carefully considered everything she has said. I can see she has been 
inconvenienced and I dont doubt she wouldve chosen not to close this account and 
withdraw the funds if she had realised it was her Easy Access Tracker account. But Im 
satisfied Virgin Money did all it could to promptly resolve the error it made. And I think the 
£150 its offered to compensate her for the trouble its mistake caused is fair. So, Im not 
going to ask it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill leave it to Mrs P to decide 
whether she wishes to approach Virgin Money to accept the £150 it offered to resolve this 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2019.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman