DRN-1945030
 
The complaint
Miss J complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) acted irresponsibly 
when lending to her. 
What happened
Between July 2018 and March 2019 Mr Lender provided Miss J with four loans. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
LoanDate 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
120/07/2018 14/08/2018 3 £200.00 £121.06
228/08/2018 14/09/2018 6 £750.00 £287.00
314/09/2018 12/02/2019 12 £1,000.00 £263.33
401/03/2019 09/05/2019 6 £400.00 £154.44
Miss J feels that Mr Lender didnt do proper checks and she says that had it done so, 
Mr Lender wouldve seen that it was irresponsible to lend to her as she was already 
borrowing elsewhere to support a short term gambling habit at the time. 
Our adjudicator partly upheld Miss Js complaint. He didnt think that Mr Lender was wrong 
to provide loans 1 and 2 to Miss J. But our adjudicator felt that when Miss J applied to 
borrow loan 3, proportionate checks would most likely have shown that she was having 
problems managing her money. Our adjudicator thought that Mr Lender wouldve found out 
that Miss J was using a significant amount of her income towards gambling. And he said in 
these circumstances, Mr Lender ought to have realised it was unlikely Miss J would've been 
able to sustainably repay this loan - and any subsequent loans.
So our adjudicator said Mr Lender shouldnt have provided loans 3 and 4 to Miss J and he 
gave directions setting out what he thought Mr Lender should do to put things right for 
Miss J.  
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicator. Mr Lender mainly said that it would have been 
disproportionate to request bank statements that early during the borrowing relationship. 
Mr Lender said Miss J repaid her loans without showing signs of any financial difficulty and 
alongside the checks conducted, it had no reason to doubt the information that Miss J 
provided and believed the loan was being used for its intended purpose.
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss J 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Miss J could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Miss Js complaint.
As far as I can see, Miss J is happy to accept what our adjudicator said with respect to not 
upholding her complaint about loans 1 and 2. So I dont think I need to say more about 
loans 1 and 2 except to say that I agree with our adjudicator about these loans.  
Mr Lender has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss J. It asked her to 
provide details of her income and to tell Mr Lender what she normally spent each month. 
And Mr Lender also carried out checks on Miss Js credit file. When she applied for loan 3, Miss J was asking to borrow a large loan that she expected to 
be paying back over a relatively long period as she signed up to pay 12 monthly instalments 
over the course of a year or so. 
Mr Lender could see that the amounts Miss J was borrowing were getting bigger each time  
loan 3 was for five times the amount of loan 1, taken out less than 2 months earlier. She took 
out loan 3 the same day that she paid loan 2  and by arranging the loan over such a long 
period she effectively kept down the cost of the monthly repayments she would have to 
make. 
Taking all this into account, I think Mr Lender should have taken steps to verify what Miss J 
was saying about her financial circumstances as the information it had gathered so far 
appeared at odds with her borrowing request. Mr Lender hasnt shown me it did this. So 
I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to lend to her. 
Miss J has provided her bank statements so Ive looked through these to see what 
Mr Lender was likely to have found out. To be clear, Im not suggesting Mr Lender should 
have done this. But, in the absence of other evidence, I think these give a reasonable picture 
of Miss Js finances at the time. And had Mr Lender looked in depth at Miss Js finances it 
would likely have seen that she was facing serious problems managing her money. I think it 
would have learnt that Miss J already had a record of borrowing from other short term 
lenders, she was typically substantially overdrawn at the bank and had been for some time  
and she was spending significantly on gambling.
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to think that it was likely Miss J 
would be able sustainably to repay loan 3  or any further lending. So it shouldnt have 
provided this loan or loan 4. 
Putting things right
A)add together the total of the repayments made by Miss J towards interest, fees 
and charges on loans 3 and 4, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything already refunded.
B)calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss J 
which were considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Miss J originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)pay Miss J the total of "A" plus "B".
D)remove any adverse information Mr Lender recorded on Miss J's credit file 
in relation to loans 3 and 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Miss Js complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman