DRN-2334703
The complaint
Ms T complains that Santander UK plc ( Santander) cannot provide evidence of the closure 
of her Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Ms T opened an ISA in April 2000 with a building society that was subsequently acquired by 
Santander. Ms T says she had forgotten about the ISA and only recently found the certificate 
relating to the account. Ms T says when she approached Santander to investigate the 
whereabouts of the account, she was told that the account was closed in 2002 and they 
have no records as to what happened to the balance. 
Santander says that their records show that the account was closed in 2002 and they have 
no obligation to hold records going back more than six years. 
Ms T was unhappy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
says that Santander have shown the account was closed in 2002 and they have no 
obligation to hold records going back this length of time. The investigator accepted the 
certificate provided by Ms T showed the ISA had been opened but says this wouldnt be 
needed to close the ISA, as other forms of identification can be used for this purpose. 
Ms T wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be sent to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
When looking at this complaint I have considered whether Santander could have done more 
to trace the whereabouts of the proceeds of the closed ISA.  
I understand that it would be upsetting for Ms T to not be able to find out what happened to 
the balance of her ISA, particularly as she felt the proceeds of the account havent been 
received by her. 
What happened here is Ms T recently found a certificate for the ISA when her mother had 
located this. Ms T says when she made enquiries with Santander to locate the ISA, they 
informed her the account was closed in 2002,  but given the time passed they did not hold 
any records to show what happened to the balance. 
Ms T says that Santander havent been helpful in trying to locate the whereabouts of the 
balance on the ISA and Mrs T believes the certificate would be required to undertake a 
transaction on the account or close it. 
I understand what Ms T is saying here, but the certificate is only evidencing the account was 
opened and it wouldnt necessarily be required to close the account as this can be arranged 
with production of suitable identification. Its worth pointing out that Ms T advised she moved 
house since the ISA was originally opened and hadnt informed either the original building 
society where it was opened nor Santander of this. Santander have told Ms T that they have 
no obligation to hold customer records for more than six years and given the ISA was closed 
18 years ago they have no way of tracing it.
It is standard practice for banks, to retain records for a reasonable period of time and six 
years is generally accepted as such, but I am satisfied  it would be unreasonable to expect 
Santander or any bank to hold customer records going back over eighteen years. While its 
possible the balance of the ISA was sent to Ms T in 2002, because she had moved address 
without notifying either party, I can see it wouldnt be possible to prove this. 
I have seen evidence from Santanders records that show the account was closed in 2002 
and have no reason to believe this isnt an accurate account of what happened here. It 
follows, I am satisfied, on balance, Santander have made attempts to trace the whereabouts 
of the ISA balance but there is a limit to what they could have done here, given the time that 
has passed. 
While Ms T will be disappointed with my decision it follows, I wont be asking anymore of 
Santander. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman