DRN-3044326
The complaint
Mr F and Mr P complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) didnt take action to 
rectify a defect following a claim they made on their building warranty.
What happened
Mr F and Mr P bought a new home that came with a ten-year building warranty provided by 
NHBC. In 2019 they identified a problem with the bricks on the outside of the house, as they 
had lost their original colour and no longer matched the rest of the house. They made a 
claim under section two off the warranty.
In October 2019 NHBC arranged a resolution meeting with a contractor at the property. It set 
a date of 31 March 2020 for the work to be completed to rectify the issue. 
In March 2020 the UK went into a national lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the 
work wasnt completed. Mr F and Mr P didnt hear from NHBC or its contractor in the months 
that followed. In June they contacted it, but an appointment wasnt arranged until August 
2020. This was later delayed again to September 2020. 
Mr F and Mr P werent happy about this. They said they had waited too long for the work to 
be completed and they had had to chase NHBC for any progress to be made. They made a 
complaint. 
NHBC didnt uphold their complaint. It said that due to the pandemic, its contractor had 
access to fewer staff because some were on furlough. This meant a date for the work wasnt 
possible until mid-September. However before this could be completed Mr F and Mr P 
advised they were taking matters to court so NHBC didnt progress the claim further. 
However it accepted the communication from its contractor could have been better from 
March until August 2020 and said it would give feedback to the contractor about this. 
Mr F and Mr P werent happy with this response. They thought NHBC could have 
communicated better with them throughout the claim. They also said that they had since 
instructed their own contractor who had advised the affected bricks needed to be replaced, 
rather than to be re-coloured as NHBC had suggested. So they thought NHBC should pay 
for this work. They brought their complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said she was satisfied 
NHBC did all it should between March 2020 and September 2020 in the circumstances. And 
thought it acted fairly by pausing the claim when Mr F and Mr P said they were taking 
matters to court.
Mr F and Mr P didnt agree. They said they had sent a number of emails before getting any 
response from NHBC about when work would commence. And this had been significantly 
after the national lockdown had ended. They also said they hadnt proceeded with court 
action and only threatened this. They asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to start by explaining how policies such as this one work. When dealing 
with a claim that falls within the first two years of a warranty such as this one, NHBC has a 
limited remit. A claim will come to NHBC if a defect has been reported to the original home 
builders and theyve failed to rectify the damage in a reasonable timescale. 
NHBC are then required only to offer a resolution service between the customer and the 
builder  laying out exactly what needs to be completed and by when. If the builder fails to 
complete the required work in that time, then NHBC is required to step in and do the work 
itself. It is only at this point, the insurance element of the warranty kicks in, which this service 
is permitted to consider
In this case NHBC set the builder a deadline of 31 March 2020 and they didnt complete the 
work before this date. This means we are able to consider the complaint. However we can 
only consider a complaint about matters after the insurance element has kicked in. That 
means, I can only consider NHBCs actions after the 31 March 2020, when the deadline was 
missed by the builders.
Mr F and Mr P have complained that the builders didnt complete the work in a timely 
manner after the deadline was missed, and NHBC failed to step in. Ive considered what 
happened between March 31 2020 and when NHBC issued its final response to their 
complaint on 30 September 2020, to decide if it acted fairly and reasonably in the handling of 
the claim.
Ive first considered the delay to the work being completed. Mr F and Mr P accept that the 
work couldnt be completed during the first national lockdown. However they say that this 
was partially lifted in May 2020 and as the work was to an external part of the building, this 
could have been safely carried out after this. 
Ive considered this but I dont agree there was an unreasonable delay. The first appointment 
was due to be arranged in August 2020. This is three months after lockdown was partially 
lifted. NHBC has explained that its contractor was dealing with a backlog of work that had 
been delayed over lockdown and that it had reduced staff due to the governments furlough 
scheme. And from my experience of dealing with many other companies in this area, at that 
time, this was a common problem for contractors. So considering the circumstances, I dont 
think the three month delay was unreasonable. 
I understand this was subsequently delayed due to further lockdown restrictions, but a date 
in September was later arranged. Which is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr F and Mr P have also said that they received poor service during this time and only 
secured a date for work to commence because they repeatedly contacted NHBC and their 
contractors. I agree that NHBC and its contractors provided poor service during this time. I 
can see from Mr Ps account that he proactively contacted NHBC before any progress was 
made. 
However it isnt the role of this service to punish a business for doing something wrong. But 
instead to seek to put things right. And in this case, while I can see Mr P suffered some 
inconvenience in having to contact NHBC a number of times, I dont think the inconvenience 
was such that NHBC should award any compensation. And as it subsequently arranged a 
visit in a reasonable time, I think it did enough to put things right at the time.Mr F and Mr P decided to instruct their own surveyor in this time who advised that the bricks 
should be replaced instead of painted. I understand why they think NHBC should pay for this 
work, however I have to consider what is covered under their warranty. NHBC are required 
to ensure the property meets its technical requirements. So for it to fairly fulfil its obligation 
under the policy, it needs to ensure any defects are rectified in order to meet these 
requirements. And as it had directed the builder to carry out the required work to meet these, 
Im satisfied it met this obligation. If Mr F and Mr P would prefer to have the work carried out 
in a different way than NHBC are suggesting, then they can instruct it to be completed 
outside of warranty cover. But as this wouldnt be covered by the warranty, it wouldnt be 
reasonable to ask NHBC to cover these costs. 
Mr F and Mr P also think that NHBC were unreasonable for halting the claim due to legal 
action, as they said this was just a threat. Mr P said in an email to the builder that he would 
pursue them through the courts. And I dont think it was unreasonable for NHBC to assume 
this meant he was going to do as he said. So I dont agree it acted unfairly by halting 
progress on the claim at this stage. 
For these reasons, I dont think NHBC has acted unfairly in its handling of Mr F and Mr Ps 
claim between March and September 2020. While I agree it could have provided a better 
service, it still arranged an appointment in a reasonable time in the circumstances so did 
enough to put things right. So I wont require it to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr F and Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman