DRN-2521685
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Society of Lloyds (SoL) handling of a claim she made under her 
commercial insurance policy. Mrs S is being represented by her husband, Mr S. And any 
references to SoL include its agents. 
What happened
In December 2017, a holiday home Mrs S owned was maliciously damaged by the tenants. 
Mrs S made a claim under her policy and she appointed a loss assessor to manage the 
claim for her. In October 2018, SoL made a payment of £11,512 towards the repairs and 
followed this up with a further payment of £812.57.
Mrs S was unhappy with the handling of the claim and made a complaint. She was unhappy 
with SoLs decision not to cover her lost earnings while the property was uninhabitable. In 
addition to this, she said SoL could have offered an interim payment to her but didnt make 
any payment until 10 months after she made the claim. The failure to do so meant she 
experienced financial pressure in maintaining her mortgage payments. Mrs S also said the 
delay in settling the claim meant her property wasnt secure, which she considers led to a 
burglary and potential further claim. Finally, she was concerned that the property was under-
insured which she considers led to a lower settlement figure. 
SoL didnt uphold Mrs S complaint. It acknowledged there were delays in settling the claim 
but said these were due to her loss assessor not responding to information in a timely 
manner. Mrs S referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered 
what happened but didnt recommend SoL needed to take any steps to put things right for 
Mrs S. Our investigator also said the issue about a later theft claim being declined needed to 
be raised with SoL in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S, on behalf of Mrs S, has made extensive submissions  all of which I have carefully 
considered. However my decision focuses on what I consider to the most relevant issues in 
this complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mrs S, Mr S or his submissions. Rather 
its a reflection of the informal nature of this service. I consider the key issue for me to decide 
is whether SoL has acted fairly how it has settled this claim. Its not my role to punish SoL if I 
think it acted unfairly as Mr S suggests. And, while Im sorry to disappoint Mrs S, Ive 
reached the same decision as our investigator and for the same reasons, which Ill go on to 
explain. 
Loss of rent
Mr S said the payment of three months loss of rent isnt sufficient. SoL said Mrs S hasnt 
demonstrated there were bookings that were unable to proceed because of the damage. 
Like our investigator, Ive considered the relevant section from the policy - which Ive 
included below: 
What is covered
c) loss of rent due to you which you are unable to recover while the buildings cannot 
be lived in following loss or damage which is covered under Section One.
What is not covered
any amount over 20% of the sum insured for the buildings damaged or destroyed.
In the first instance, Im satisfied it was appropriate for SoL to ask for evidence of bookings 
that Mr S and Mrs S considered were unable to go ahead as a result of the damage. I also 
agree the position taken by SoL was appropriate in the circumstances. I appreciate the fact 
the property had, at the time of the claim, recently changed from offering long-term to a 
short-term let meant there was a difficulty in evidencing how the property would likely be 
booked. This change meant Mr S and Mrs S could not refer back to the previous year as an 
example of how likely it was the property would be booked and for how long, as they might 
have otherwise done. And the future booking information provided from a third-party website 
werent as clear in showing confirmed future bookings as Mrs S would have liked. 
As the investigator said, when considering a claim for loss of rent under a policy its for the 
policyholder to evidence the loss theyve suffered. I dont think this has been demonstrated 
despite what I consider to be a number of reasonable requests from the insurer. SoL has 
made a payment for three months loss of rent. In light of what I consider to be a lack of firm 
evidence showing a higher amount is owed, I consider this to be a fair resolution to this part 
of the complaint. Im not intending to direct SoL to make a further payment in respect of loss 
of rent. 
Delays in settling the claim
Mr S said SoL should have made an interim payment before the first payment was made in 
October 2018. He says an agreement was made on 1 May 2018, but no payment was 
offered at that point. I dont agree the claim was settled at this point. Its clear from reviewing 
the email correspondence that SoL considered there was further information outstanding. It 
went on to make requests for evidence of confirmed bookings that could not be honoured. 
These emails continued until September 2018, so its clear to me there were areas of the 
claim that had not been settled up until this point.  
I think its important for me to clarify its not for an insurer to ensure any mortgage payments 
due are maintained. Mrs S provided an email showing her mortgage was in arrears and a 
default notice and formal demand were issued in July and August 2018. Mr S said they had 
to carry out remedial works out of their own pockets and could not keep up with mortgage 
payments as a result. But this was a choice for them to make - and I consider its not 
unreasonable to suggest they could have prioritised meeting the mortgage payments or 
made a request to SoL for an interim payment if they were facing financial difficulties as a 
result of meeting the cost of the mortgage payments and starting repairs. I dont think SoL 
was under any obligation to make a payment until the claim had been finalised. 
I acknowledge there were delays in settling the claim. However, like our investigator, I 
consider these delays were primarily down to the loss assessor appointed by Mrs S. There 
were a number of occasions where SoL asked the loss assessor for information and it was 
several weeks before he replied. I cannot hold SoL responsible for the delays in settling the 
claim. It follows, I wont be recommending SoL make an additional payment for interest, as 
Mr S has asked for. 
Allegations of under-insuranceIn the first instance, its important to clarify this policy taken out via a broker. SoL has rightly 
said Mrs S needs to direct any concerns about under insurance when the policy was set up 
to that broker. As a result, Im not going to consider anything that relates to how the policy 
was set up. If Mrs S has concerns about this and hasnt done so, shes able to contact the 
broker directly. 
Initial calculations from January 2018 using the Building Cost Information Service provided 
by the Royal Chartered Institute of Surveyors website, indicated the reinstatement cost could 
be between £174,000 (based on 150m) and £193,000 (based on 168m) depending on the 
varying floor areas. I note Mrs S loss assessor indicated the property was in a poor state of 
repair throughout, and felt an average needed to be used. He confirmed Mrs S had 
measured the house at 150m. The loss assessor and SoL agreed a value at risk figure of 
£174,000 in May 2018 after considering a number of facts, including the state of the house 
and size of the property. The settlement figure from the claim was based on this figure. 
However, discussions continued between Mrs S loss assessor and SoL. A note from a 
telephone conversation in October 2018 reflects an agreed reinstatement figure of £167,000 
was agreed between the two. This led to a further payment of £812.57 being made to Mrs S. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr S said he and Mrs S considered the value at risk or 
reinstatement figure should be £130,000 rather than £167,000. He provided further 
calculations setting out why he considers the reinstatement value used by SoL in the 
settlement figure to be inaccurate. 
This service has only considered SoLs handling of the claim up to the date of the final 
response letter. In doing so, Ive considered the policy terms, which say:
If you are under-insured, which means the cost of rebuilding the buildings at the time 
of loss or damage is more than your sum insured for the buildings, then we will only 
pay a proportion of the claim. For example, if your sum insured only covers one half 
of the cost of rebuilding the buildings; we will only pay one half of the cost of repair or 
replacement.
On the basis of the information available to SoL at the time the claim was settled, Im 
satisfied it acted reasonably in considering an appropriate reinstatement value of the 
property. It entered into discussions with Mrs S appointed representative and shared the 
information, including relevant calculations, it was relying on. While mindful of the comment 
about the poor state the property was allegedly in, Im conscious SoL further reduced the 
reinstatement value following discussions with Mrs S loss assessor in October 2018. Like 
our investigator, Im satisfied SoL provided details of how it calculated the settlement figure - 
as Id expect it to do. If Mr S wants to share his further thoughts with SoL about why he 
believes an alternative reinstatement figure should be used hes free to do so. However, 
based on SoLs handling of the claim (including settlement) up to the date of the final 
response letter, Im satisfied it acted fairly. 
Finally, I can understand this has been a distressing time for Mrs S. Mr S has implied they 
had no choice but to appoint a loss assessor to help them progress the claim with SoL. I 
dont agree. I havent seen anything in SoLs handling of this claim which makes me think 
they needed to appoint an expert to help settle the claim. For this reason, Im not intending 
to direct SoL to reimburse them any costs they incurred in appointing their loss adjuster. 
Overall, Im satisfied SoLs handling of the claim was appropriate and proportionate with 
what Mrs S was entitled to under the terms of the policy. Mr S has suggested that Mrs S was 
entitled to interest on the payments she received from SoL, but I dont agree. Wed usually award interest for any financial loss incurred as a result of a business error but here, SoL 
was settling Mrs S claim. I dont agree she was out of pocket as a result of SoLs handling of 
the claim. And as Ive not concluded SoL has acted incorrectly or unfairly in its handling of 
the claim, it follows Im not going to direct it to make a payment recognition of the distress 
and inconvenience Mrs S has experienced. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman