DRN-3216255
The complaint
Mr R has complained about credit he borrowed with Inclusive Finance Limited, trading as 
Creditspring (Creditspring). Mr R feels that the lending was irresponsible and also 
unaffordable.  
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr R and Creditspring. I wont repeat 
in detail what is already known to both parties. 
In March 2019 Mr R entered into a credit agreement with Creditspring. The terms of the 
agreement were that Mr R would pay Creditspring a monthly fee of £6 (each month for 12 
months) and this entitled him to the option of drawing down two interest free loans of £250 
each during the 12 month period. Creditspring say each loan was payable over 4 months, 
interest free and that the second loan couldnt be drawn down until the first was repaid.
Mr R drew down the first loan on 20 March 2019 which he repaid in full. Mr R then drew 
down the second loan on 2 August 2019. On 4 November 2019 Mr R let Creditspring know 
he was struggling financially due to a change in circumstances. An updated repayment 
schedule was agreed between Mr R and Creditspring. The second advance was then repaid 
in full on 3 February 2020.
Shortly afterwards, Mr R made a complaint to Creditspring about unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending. He asked that any interest and charges be refunded and any negative 
information removed from his credit record. Creditspring looked into the complaint but didnt 
uphold it. Still unhappy, Mr R referred his complain to our service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but he didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. My decision also only considers this 
lending decision by Creditspring and not any other lending decisions that Mr R has 
referenced.  However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before 
arriving at my decision.
Before lending credit to Mr R, Creditspring were required to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Rs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often 
referred to as an affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it 
needed to be focussed on whether Mr R could sustainably afford the borrowing (based on 
his specific circumstances). 
Mr Rs application data showed that he told Creditspring his disposable income after 
expenses, bills and other financial commitments was around £1104. But Creditspring looked 
into other borrowing Mr R had through third party credit reference agencies and recalculated 
his disposable income downwards to around £572. Based on the third-party data, none of 
the existing borrowing was pay day loans. On balance, Im satisfied that Creditspring took 
reasonable and proportionate steps to check that Mr R would likely be able to repay the 
credit borrowed in a sustainable way.
The decision to lend was based on the lower disposable income figure. Creditspring also 
checked that the agreed repayments totalled less than 5% of Mr Rs monthly income. Again, 
this was fair and proportionate. Although Mr R argues that the decision to lend to him was 
irresponsible, Ive not seen persuasive evidence that supports this. 
Mr R had to pay a monthly fee under this agreement. But no interest or other charges were 
added to the credit borrowed. Under the terms of this agreement, no further borrowing could 
take place until the first loan had been paid off. Again, this doesnt support Mr Rs argument 
about irresponsible lending. The first borrowing was repaid on time and in full. When Ive 
considered this alongside the decision by Mr R to then take up the option of further 
borrowing with Creditspring on 2 August 2019, it doesnt support that he felt the borrowing 
was unaffordable at that time. 
Its very unfortunate that Mr R later experienced a change in financial circumstances, but Im 
also satisfied that when made aware by Mr R, Creditspring were sufficiently supportive and 
understanding when agreeing to a change of repayment schedule and later waiving the final 
membership fee in March 2020. Ive seen no other evidence that Mr R contacted 
Creditspring to make them aware he was experiencing further financial difficulties or needed 
further support after the new repayment plan had been agreed. Ive also noted that Mr R 
repaid the total borrowing in full.
Mr R has referred to having to take additional borrowing to repay this lending. But no 
evidence has been provided to support this. 
On balance, I dont find that this decision to lend was either irresponsible or unaffordable and 
dont require Creditspring to do anything further. I know Mr R will naturally be disappointed 
with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve his dispute 
with Creditspring  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman