DRN-2302134
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund him £300 after an ATM failed to 
dispense to him. And hed like his money refunded.
What happened
Mr A has a current account with Barclays.
 
On the 3 September 2019 Mr A tried to withdraw £300 from his Barclays account using a 
cash machine owned by Barclays. Mr A explains that he put his card into the machine and 
entered his PIN before requesting £300. But, his cash wasnt dispensed. 
Mr A explains that he didnt hear the usual noise when an ATM machine counts the money, 
but his card was returned. Mr A says he waited for around 30 minutes after the machine 
didnt dispense  but no cash came out. And he wanted the money to help with a friends 
rent. 
The next day Mr A checked his balance and noticed that his account had been debited for 
£300 so complained to Barclays. But they didnt uphold his complaint. The bank said there 
wasnt any evidence of an error in the machine and the ATM balanced the next day. 
Mr A didnt accept Barclays conclusion so referred his complaint to our service. He also 
provided a copy of a report from a local security guard, stating the security guard was aware 
of issues with the machine. 
One of our investigators looked at Mr As complaint. But they didnt think Barclays needed to 
do anything further here. In summary he explained that when the balance of the machine 
was checked the next day £20 was present in the purge bin and the ATM report didnt match 
Mr As explanation of events. So they couldnt conclude Mr A didnt get his £300. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators opinion. In summary he said:
-He believes he made attempts to check his balance after the transactions because of 
panic.
-He wouldnt make a claim if it wasnt genuine.
-He agrees that what happened after the transaction doesnt fit with his version of events, 
but he suffered from anxiety and was confused. 
-The statement from the security guard  where he says hes seen the ATM causing 
problems for customers  should be strong evidence. 
Our investigator responded to Mr As points and said he agreed that there was evidence of 
errors with the ATM machine but theres no evidence of an error occurring during Mr As 
transaction. And for this reason he didnt change his outcome. 
Mr A didnt accept our investigators second view  and in doing so said due to his poor 
English skills his description of events has led to confusion and why would he keep trying to 
withdraw further funds if his £300 had dispensed?
As Mr A didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. And Ill explain why below. 
Barclays have confirmed there were no problems reported with the machine at the time of 
the disputed withdrawal  and theres no evidence the machine was tampered with. Theyve 
also provided evidence to show that only £20 was found in the purge bin and not £300. And 
a copy of the journal roll which gives a details of the timings and notes dispensed for Mr As 
transaction. 
From what Ive seen I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to decline Mr As refund. I 
say this because:
-Barclays have evidenced that only £20 was found in the purge bin on the morning after 
Mr As transaction. If Mr As money hadnt dispensed as hes claimed then Id expect 
there to be at least £300. For me to reach a conclusion that Mr As money hadnt 
dispensed, Id need to explain why theres a £280 discrepancy  which Im unable to do. 
-The journey roll shows that 4 x £10 and 13 x £20 notes were dispensed, totalling £300, 
when Mr A carried out his transaction. 
-Mr A initially explained that he waited for 30 minutes after his transaction to see if his 
money dispensed. But within minutes of completing his transaction a number of other 
customers used the ATM. I find it difficult to understand how Mr A could have waited for 
his money to dispense if other members of the public were using the machine.
 
-Mr A didnt mention that he attempted three unsuccessful transactions after his £300
withdrawal. In response to our investigators view Mr A said he was confused and in his 
panic he must have carried out a number of balance checks after the failed withdrawal. 
But the evidence instead shows he carried out three failed attempts to withdraw further 
funds. 
Ive considered Mr As response to our investigators view. And I realise this will be 
disappointing to Mr A but Im afraid this doesnt change my opinion.
 
Mr As explained that he was confused when bringing his complaint to our service and thats 
why he didnt mention the attempts he made after his transactions and he appeared to 
suggest he waited for 30 minutes without anyone else using the machine. I accept that its 
possible theres been some misunderstanding about what he described happening when he 
visited the ATM machine. Ive also considered the statement from the security guard  which 
supports there were errors with the machine  and Mr As further attempts to get funds. But, 
and I realise this will disappoint Mr A, overall this doesnt change my outcome. I say this 
because Ive not seen any evidence to indicate there were problems with Mr As specific 
transaction and as Ive explained above I cant see a plausible explanation for how Mr A 
failed to receive £300 but only £20 remained in the purge bin the next morning. For these 
reasons Im unable to conclude Mr A didnt get his funds. My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman