DRN-3384550
The complaint
Mr B complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled a claim hes made for 
subsidence under his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
References I make to Mr B and Aviva include respective representatives and agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary 
here.
Mr B has a buildings insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. There were a number of 
previous claims on the policy when the property experienced subsidence in 1998 and 
2003. Aviva undertook strengthening work to address the issues.
In 2015, his property experienced subsidence again and Mr B reported this to Aviva. 
It proposed to address the subsidence by undertaking further strengthening works 
but Mr B was unhappy with this.
He says underpinning the property was discussed following the 2015 claim but was 
considered unnecessary and a potential risk by Aviva. Significant periods of 
monitoring followed and eventually drain repairs were undertaken in 2017 to address 
the subsidence.
In 2018, cracking reappeared before the work was signed off and so another period 
of monitoring was required which highlighted further movement. More drain repairs 
were required but Mr B was unhappy with this and said more extensive investigations 
should be undertaken.
Eventually, in 2020, Avivas expert said underpinning was required to address the 
subsidence. This was completed in May 2021.
Mr B complained to Aviva, highlighting the impact its poor handling had on him and 
his family and the potential impact on the value of the property. Aviva apologised and 
awarded £1,000 compensation for the delays in finding an appropriate solution for 
the subsidence. It also said it would give a Certificate of Structural Adequacy (CSA) 
and this should address any potential purchasers concerns.
Our Investigator considered the evidence and upheld the complaint saying Aviva 
should have considered underpinning earlier. She didnt think Aviva needed to do 
anything to address Mr Bs view on the potential decrease in value of his property but 
awarded an additional £1,000 on top of the amount already offered by Aviva for the 
delays and poor service. She thought Avivas position on the CSA was reasonable.
Aviva accepted this but Mr B didnt and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B raised concerns about Avivas actions through the entire life of the claims from 1998 to 
the present day. I explained in a recent decision I can only consider Avivas actions and its 
approach on the 2015 claim and what it did after this. I therefore wont be commenting on 
what happened before this on the previous claims. 
I know Mr B has found the various incidences of subsidence and the related claims to be 
very distressful. My role requires me to undertake an impartial and dispassionate review of 
the evidence and that means my decision may sound rather matter of fact at times. I mean 
no disrespect by this, its merely the nature of my role.
Avivas approach to the repairs
Industry rules require Aviva to handle claims promptly and fairly. And where repairs take 
place wed expect those to be lasting and effective. That doesnt always mean corrective 
repairs will work first time round and forever.  Aviva should bear this in mind when 
considering the nature of repairs given previous attempts at remediating the subsidence had 
neither been lasting or effective.
Mr Bs key argument is that underpinning should have been employed much sooner than it 
was. Its clear from the evidence early in the 2015 claim, Mr B believed underpinning was the 
correct solution to address the damage because of the past history of subsidence. I accept 
that, ultimately in 2021, underpinning was employed to address the damage but it doesnt 
automatically follow that it would have been the only appropriate solution in 2015.
In deciding the appropriate approach, Aviva relied on the professional opinion of its experts 
which said underpinning wasnt necessary to address the damage at that time. I havent 
seen any opposing professional opinion that shows underpinning should have been 
employed then. 
It wasnt until 2020 that Avivas expert decided underpinning was now the appropriate 
solution. He commented that The ground is very poor and now has long term reduction in 
load bearing capacity so the foundation stabilisation is the only measure to deal with this 
and diagnosed the cause of this being due to elongated exposure of the subsoil to the 
escaping water.
From this, I conclude the position had deteriorated over time and while underpinning may 
have been appropriate in 2021, the evidence doesnt persuade me conclusively that it would 
have been the only successful solution before this. 
Ive then gone on to think about whether Aviva should reasonably have thought about 
alternative solutions even in the absence of conclusive evidence. Aviva has acknowledged it 
should have considered underpinning sooner than it did and I agree. In my view, when it 
became clear the attempted repairs had failed when the damage reoccurred in 2018 - even 
before the repair work was signed off - I think Aviva should have realised its approach up to 
that point was simply insufficient to address the issue. 
If it had adopted the underpinning at this stage it would have saved Mr B being put through  
at least two years of unnecessary distress and inconvenience. And I dont think Aviva has 
done enough to compensate Mr B for the impact this caused. Ill be keeping this in mind 
when considering the award I make.The time taken
Our Investigator provided a timeline for the claim and I dont propose to repeat that here. Ive 
looked at Avivas actions over the period under review and very carefully read through all the 
claim notes. I acknowledge subsidence claims will always take time and in this case thats 
not been helped by long periods of monitoring and the impact of the Covid pandemic. 
But it seems to me, Aviva has taken much longer than was necessary to move the claim 
forward. The claim notes show, for example, Mr Bs representative had to regularly chase 
Aviva for updates, details of monitoring results and complained of frequent unreturned phone 
calls from its agents and contractors. The representative also highlighted the distress Mr B 
was experiencing as a direct result of the claim being so drawn out.
The potential impact on the property value
Mr B says the ongoing subsidence issues and the delays in Aviva addressing them will have 
affected the value and saleability of his house. I acknowledge what Mr B says here but Ive 
not seen any evidence which shows there actually has been a decrease in the value of the 
property because of anything Aviva did so this remains a potential theoretical loss. So I 
wouldnt make an award on the basis of a theoretical loss of value. 
Aviva confirmed it would provide Mr B with a CSA once the work was completed. The 
provision of a CSA often assists with obtaining future insurance or for providing reassurance 
for potential purchasers that previous problems have been resolved successfully. The 
provision of a CSA to Mr B is in line with what Id expect of Aviva in these circumstances. 
And I wont be asking Aviva to do anymore on this aspect of the complaint.
Putting things right
As I explained above, I can only consider the impact of Avivas actions from the 2015 claim 
onwards, not what it did  or didnt do  on previous claims. It follows that any award I make 
will only reflect the impact on Mr B from 2015.
I think Aviva should have agreed to the underpinning solution much sooner than it did and 
handled the claim much quicker. Its clear Mr B found the subsidence and Avivas handling 
of the claim very distressing and the delays it caused made this much worse. They also 
resulted in it partly coinciding with the global Covid pandemic and that meant additional 
delays and Mr B having to have contractors in attendance at a time when vulnerable people 
like himself were keen to avoid contact with others as much as possible.
Having taken everything into account, and for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think 
Aviva has done enough to recognise the impact of its actions on Mr B. Ive thought about this 
very carefully and concluded that Aviva should pay Mr B a total of £2,000, deducting from 
this figure anything its already paid him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay 
Mr B a total of £2,000 - less any sum its paid already - for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 Paul Phillips
Ombudsman