DRN-3227538
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the additional costs hed incurred after PSA Finance UK Limited were 
unable to collect his car at the end of a hire agreement he had with them.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr S was supplied with a car through a hire agreement with PSA. He paid an 
advance hire payment of £3,000.53 plus a service charge of £174.72; and the agreement 
was for 23 monthly payments of £250.04 plus a monthly service charge of £14.56.
The agreement was due to end on 29 April 2020. However, due to the coronavirus (Covid-
19) pandemic, a national lockdown had been put in place in March 2020. And this meant that 
PSAs collection agents werent able to collect the car. Because of this, and because he 
wasnt aware of any other options, Mr S extended his agreement by three months.
The car was due for a service in June 2020, and Mr S asked PSA if he needed to get this 
done or not. But, in reply, PSA said they couldnt confirm if hed be charged for a missing 
service. So, Mr S had the service done at the cost of £313.
The car was collected on 2 July 2020. But PSA collected the payment for the whole of July. 
Mr S wasnt happy with how hed been treated, and he complained to PSA.
PSA said that the reason the car couldnt be collected in April 2020 was outside of their 
control. But customers werent being penalised if the car couldnt be collected. They didnt 
agree they should reimburse Mr S for the cost of the service, or refund the payment for July 
2020 even though Mr S didnt have the car. But they did pay him £150 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr S wasnt happy with this reply, so he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said the agreement with PSA required Mr S to service the car in accordance 
with the manufacturers recommendations. But she hadnt seen any evidence that Mr S was 
told that he didnt have to extend the agreement because of the delays. And he only drove 
542 miles during the extension period. Whats more, PSA didnt give Mr S a clear answer on 
whether hed be charged for missing the service or not. So, given these circumstances, the 
investigator said that PSA should reimburse Mr S with the cost of the service, plus interest.
The investigator also didnt think it was fair that PSA charged Mr S a whole months rental for 
July 2020, when the car was collected on 2 July. So, she thought PSA should refund him 30-
days rental, plus interest.
PSA didnt agree with the investigator. They said Mr S had submitted a request to extend the 
agreement on 7 April 2020, and theyd processed this in good faith. And, if Mr S had 
contacted them before making this request, they couldve advised him accordingly. They 
also said they told Mr S on 12 June 2020 that he would be charged if he missed a service. 
So they didnt think they should reimburse the cost of the service. But PSA did agree they 
should reimburse Mr S for the payment they took for July 2020, as the car was collected on 
2 July 2020.
Because PSA didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire agreement. This is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about 
it. 
As PSA have already agreed to refund Mr S for the period he paid for, but didnt have use of 
the car for, in July 2020; my decision will focus on the service cost.
Ive seen a copy of the hire agreement, which Mr S signed on 17 April 2018. The following 
terms relate to servicing the car:
21.2.1 you will be responsible for arranging the service of the vehicle by the repairer 
at the intervals recommended by the manufacturer or whenever
21.2.2 necessary and ensure the repairer stamps the vehicle service book.
17.2.2 a fully stamped service history book must be present at the time of collection, 
with all services carries out within 1000 miles or 30 days (whichever occurs first) of 
the scheduled service mileage requirement.
17.2.3 missing or incomplete service history will incur a charge of £1000 for each 
missed service and a charge of £500 will be applied for each late service.
13.1 if servicing and maintenance have not been chosen from the services schedule, 
you will be required to pay for any servicing.
The agreement is clear that Mr S was paying a monthly service charge of £14.56. So, as far 
as I understand it, under term 13.1, he wasnt required to pay for any servicing.
In an email dated 26 March 2020, PSA told Mr S that, if you are coming towards the end of 
your contract and would like to extend your agreement we may be able to offer you an 
extension of up to three months. However, PSA didnt provide any options if Mr S didnt 
want to extend the agreement. 
While I appreciate the pandemic and lockdown were unprecedented circumstances, and this 
was something outside of PSAs control, I think it would be fair for them to let Mr S know 
what his options were, whether he asked this or not. So, I dont believe that its sufficient for 
PSA to say that, because Mr S had applied for an extension to the agreement, they had no 
obligation to explain anything else to him. And Im satisfied that, because of the lack of other 
options, the email of 26 March 2020 implies that an extension is the only option available.However, Mr S did apply for the extension, and had the option to use the car during the 
extension period (whether he chose to do so or not). So, I think its fair that he pay for the car 
for the period it was in his possession.
Mr S asked PSA whether he needed to service the car in June 2020. In an online chat on 12 
June 2020, PSA told him the vehicle will need to be serviced prior to collecting. However, 
in an email dated 24 June 2020, PSA told Mr S we are unable to confirm if this will be 
charged as a missing service at the time. Once the vehicle has been collected, if you are 
charged for this you may call us  to dispute these charges.
Im satisfied that PSA didnt give Mr S a clear answer about any possible charges. And, 
despite paying for a service plan each month, Mr S paid for a service to avoid the potential of 
a £1,000 fine from PSA.
In their final complaint response, PSA have said that customers werent being penalised if 
the car couldnt be collected. So, I think it wouldve been reasonable for them to give Mr S a 
clear answer about any missing service charge. And, as customers werent being penalised, 
then its reasonable to conclude that PSA wouldnt charge Mr S for a missed service if he 
hadnt had this done.
So, by not telling Mr S this, he incurred the cost of a service that otherwise didnt need to be 
done. So, I think its fair that PSA reimburse Mr S for the cost of this service.
Putting things right
As PSA have already paid Mr S £150 for the trouble and upset Mr S had been caused, I 
dont think they need to pay him anything in addition to this.
So, PSA should:
upon receipt of evidence showing that Mr S paid for a service on the car during the 
extension period, refund this cost to Mr S;
reimburse Mr S 30-days rental, to cover the period in July 2020 when hed paid for 
the car but didnt have possession of it; and
apply 8% simple yearly interest on the above refunds, calculated from the date Mr S 
made the payments to the date of the refund .
HM Revenue & Customs requires PSA to take off tax from this interest. PSA must give Mr S 
a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint, and PSA Finance UK Limited must 
follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman