DRN-3745587
The complaint
Miss M complains that she was supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality under 
a hire purchase agreement with Marsh Finance & Commercial Ltd (Marsh).
What happened
Miss M entered into a hire purchase agreement with Marsh on 26 October 2021 to fund the 
acquisition of a car. The cash price of the car was £3,985. Miss M paid a £500 deposit and 
was required to repay the lending over 24 months, with an optional purchase fee at the end.
The car broke down in April 2022 and Miss M had it recovered to a local garage. I 
understand that garage replaced damaged engine components, only to report that damage 
had previously been caused to the extent that the cylinder head likely needed replacing.
Miss M told Marsh the car had broken down and was undriveable on 9 May 2022. She 
complained that the car had failed due to it having been poorly maintained prior to its supply.
Marsh issued a response to the complaint in June 2022. It said an independent inspection of 
the car had been completed which accepted a fault with the car, but concluded that there 
was insufficient evidence to suggest the fault had been present at the point of supply. It 
decided that the car had been of satisfactory quality when supplied to Miss M.
Miss M referred the matter to this service. She cast doubt on the inspection Marsh had relied 
on, suggesting that the fault with the car hadnt been adequately investigated. Miss M 
provided a report from the garage the car had been initially recovered to  it concluded that 
the car hadnt been properly maintained for as much as the last 20,000 miles. And, that the 
fault wouldve been developing in the last 5,000 miles.
On the basis that Miss M had only travelled 2,848 miles in around six months from the point 
of supply, our investigator was persuaded that the car was likely not of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. They recommended, in summary, that Marsh collect the car, end the 
agreement, compensate Miss M for costs incurred and pay her £150 for distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Marsh disagreed. It said the car was advertised without a full service history so Miss M ought 
to have expected issues to develop shortly after it was supplied. Additionally, the issue 
happened more than six months after supply, so itd be reasonable to assume it wasnt 
present at supply, which is also what the initial inspection of the car had concluded.
Marsh asked for a final decision on the matter. The case was passed to me. I issued a 
provisional decision on it. In summary, I said;
Miss M was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. Thats a regulated 
agreement and one which this service is able to consider complaint about. Under this type of 
agreement, Marsh is the supplier of the goods and is responsible for dealing with a 
complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this case. It implies terms into the 
agreement that the goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality. Thats defined as the 
meeting the standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account 
the description of the goods, price paid, and other relevant circumstances.
Such factors relevant to this case might be the age and mileage of the car at the time of 
supply, as well as the cars history.
In this case, Miss M was supplied with a car which was approximately seven years old and 
had travelled 43,000 miles. I also accept it was advertised as being supplied without a full 
service history.
So, given the cars age, mileage and (lack of) history I accept that a reasonable person 
ought to expect certain components to be worn and perhaps in need of replacement sooner 
than if the car had been new. I also accept that the car as a whole might be more prone to 
failure or deterioration as some components might be near the end of their expected life 
cycle.
The CRA says that goods must conform to the contract within the first six months. So, if the 
goods are found to be faulty within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was 
present when the goods were supplied, unless theres compelling evidence to suggest 
otherwise. Outside of those six months, its for Miss M to show that the goods were not of 
satisfactory quality. I think the goods were found to be faulty within six months, but in any 
case I also think Miss M has successfully demonstrated they werent of satisfactory quality 
as well. Ill explain why.
Were not engineers or technical experts in terms of diagnosing faults with cars. We need to 
rely on independent and expert evidence. In this case weve been given a differing 
perspective from two different sources.
I think all parties agree that theres a fault with the car. It seems everyone agrees the fault is 
likely in relation to a lack of lubrication/ oil being supplied to the camshafts/ valve lifters and/ 
or cylinder head. Its for me to determine whether that fault was either present or developing 
at the point the car was supplied to Miss M.
In its submission to this service I think Marsh accepts that Miss M raised the issue with the 
supplying dealer within six months of the car being supplied. And the information Ive 
received shows that on 8 April 2022 a garage had identified a failed timing chain tensioner 
causing a lot of noise as a result of a slack timing chain. It also identified what it considered 
to be evidence which it thought showed oil hadnt been changed for at least 20,000 miles.
I understand that in diagnosing fault with the engine, the garage replaced damaged parts as 
well as those necessary to make the engine functional again. For this, Miss M incurred a 
cost of £733.89. Having done so, the garage noted that the engine remained noisy, likely as 
a result of blocked hydraulic valve lifters. They said the cylinder head would almost certainly 
require replacement.
The garage ultimately concluded that the fault had been a cumulative and progressive 
failure and was likely developing in the last 5,000 miles. It reported that in its view, nothing 
other than a lack of long term maintenance couldve caused this premature failure.
The independent inspection and report which Marsh has relied on was completed 
subsequent to this. It ultimately concluded that there was insufficient evidence to say that the 
fault with the car was present when the car was supplied to Miss M. Although I note that in a 
subsequent clarification issued the initial inspector seems to accept its possible that the fault may not have been apparent at the point of supply but couldve been developing. They 
nonetheless maintain their position that there isnt sufficient evidence to say that the issue 
was either present at the point of supply or hadnt developed solely during the period in 
which Miss M had the car.
Ultimately I need to decide which perspective I find more plausible. Whilst I have no reason 
to doubt the reliability of the report Marsh relied on, I have to take into account that it was 
compiled without the engine or associated components having been dismantled and 
examined. But, in contrast, the report provided by Miss M was completed after what seems 
to have been a more detailed examination on relevant and associated engine components.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence presented in this case, Im more persuaded 
by the report provided by Miss M. I find it particularly plausible that the nature of the fault 
seems to have been a progressive one, and most likely did not occur solely in the short time 
that Miss M had use of the car. It satisfies me, at the very least, that the car had a serious 
issue which was developing, and therefore present, at the point of supply.
Taking into account the likely value of the car as well as the probable costs associated with 
the appropriate repair  estimated to be around £2,000  I dont think itd be economical or in 
either parties interest to require that of Marsh. So, I think the fairest thing to do is allow Miss 
M to reject the car without cost to her.
And, I think Miss M ought to be compensated for the costs she incurred as a result of the 
cars fault. I accept the garage Miss M had the car recovered to had replaced some 
damaged parts associated with replacing the timing chain, and this made up some of the 
costs she incurred  Im satisfied that this was necessary in order to diagnose other faults 
with the car though. So, that cost ought to be covered in full.
I also think Miss M ought to be compensated for distress and inconvenience caused by 
whats happened. I agree that the £150 our investigator recommended is appropriate in the 
circumstances.
Overall, Im persuaded from whats been said that the current fault had likely been 
developing for a long time, most likely prior to the car being supplied to Miss M. As a result, 
Im persuaded, on balance, that the goods supplied to Miss M were not of satisfactory quality 
and Marsh therefore needs to put things right.
I went onto explain what I intended to require of Marsh to put things right.
Both Marsh and Miss M responded. Marsh had nothing further to add and Miss M accepted 
my provisional decision. 
The case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has provided what I consider to be any materially new evidence in response to 
my provisional decision. As such, I find no reason to depart from my provisional decision and 
now make those findings final. My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I require Marsh Finance & 
Commercial Ltd to;
- End Miss Ms agreement with nothing further to pay;
- Collect the car at no cost to Miss M;
- Refund all payments Miss M made from 8 April 2022, which is the point at which we 
know fault was identified with the car and Miss M didnt have use of it;
- Refund Miss Ms deposit;
- Pay Miss M £733.89 in respect of costs incurred for the work and report completed 
by an independent garage;
- Pay Miss M simple interest at 8% per annum on all sums above from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement;
- Pay £150 compensation to Miss M for distress and inconvenience caused; and
- Remove any adverse information reported in relation to the agreement with credit 
reference agencies, if any has been reported.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman