DRN-3326583
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about short Volatility Index Market (VIM) positions he opened in his IG 
Markets Limited (IG) trading account on 11 and 12 March 2020. He says IG misrepresented 
the VIM product and that its misrepresentation led to his losses of around £400,000 in the 
short positions and led to his loss of opportunity to make gains (in the positions) of almost 
£180,000. He seeks compensation for both. 
What happened
On 26 January 2022 I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on the complaint. I summarised 
events up to the point of the PD  that is, the facts of the case, submissions by both parties 
and the findings by one of our investigators  and I presented my provisional conclusion 
(with reasons) that the complaint should not be upheld. My findings in the PD included the 
following  
As the investigator said across both of his views, the matters to determine are distilled to 
whether (or not) IGs resolution offer to Mr M was/is reasonable and, associated with that, 
whether (or not) there was a responsibility to mitigate that passed to him on 15 March and 
that he unreasonably failed to discharge before his closure of the positions on 18 March.
Also like the investigator, I do not consider it necessary to address or determine any debate 
about IGs responsibility for the issues that underlie Mr Ms complaint  those being 
transparency of the funding terms for the VIM product and the opening of his positions in that 
product. These issues appear to be redundant, given that IG has essentially accepted 
responsibility for them and given that it has offered compensation for funding costs and for 
losses up to 15 March  so the matters to determine remain as I have stated above.
For the sake of clarity, my provisional conclusion that Mr Ms complaint is not upheld is 
based upon my understanding that IG presently retains the above position  that is, it 
accepts responsibility for disclosure of information about the VIM product not being as 
prominent as it could have been at the time Mr M opened his positions, it is prepared to 
settle his complaint by paying him the funding costs he incurred (which it appears to have 
already done) and it is also prepared to settle the complaint by paying him the losses 
incurred in the positions up to the end point on 15 March that has been addressed by all 
sides in the complaint. It is for this reason that I will not be addressing IGs responsibility for 
the underlying issue about the VIM product, but if IG no longer holds the above position the 
nature of the complaint changes and this underlying issue will have to be addressed afresh 
in another Provisional Decision.
The dispute between the parties is essentially about whether (or not) Mr Ms conduct after 
the asserted end point amounted to reasonable mitigation.
Mr M has presented caselaw authorities for his arguments that IG has not proven he acted 
unreasonably in terms of mitigation, that he was in the heat of a crisis from 15 March 
onwards so a lower standard of reasonableness applied in this respect and that, in terms of 
mitigation, he was not required to take risks with his money by crystallising his losses without 
a reasonable attempt at exploring alternatives.
Copies of the relevant telephone call recordings have been shared with this service, and I 
consider that their contents have been pivotal in disclosing the facts of the engagements 
between the parties between 15 and 17 March, and 18 March.
The fact is that Mr M made no mitigation attempt and displayed no effort to mitigate during 
his engagement with IG on 15 March, so this calls into question the relevance of the 
authorities he has referred to  in other words, can they reasonably apply where there was 
no mitigation on his part? The majority of the conversation on 15 March featured discussions 
about the VIM product and Mr Ms enquiries in relation to his open positions, the funding 
costs for them, what he thought those funding costs were and then what IG explained to him 
the funding costs  in reality  were. I consider it beyond doubt that the discussions ended 
with Mr M fully understanding the reality of the funding costs for his positions, because he 
expressed as much during the call. Furthermore, the discussions ended with Mr M 
seemingly accepting the position that he found himself him, even though he had expressed 
that it was not what he expected. He did not raise a complaint and he suggested nothing 
about mitigating the matter on this date.
Mr M has argued that IG should have escalated the matter  perhaps into a complaint, and 
in order for it to explore a resolution  on 15 March. First, the idea of escalation into a 
complaint appears to be presently redundant given that a complaint was eventually made, 
was essentially upheld and was concluded by IG with settlement of the costs he incurred 
and with an offer that covered his losses up to 15 March. Secondly, as Mr M did not 
complain on 15 March there appears to have been no prompt for IG to escalate anything or 
to explore a resolution. Instead, and given that Mr M had by then become fully informed 
about the funding costs for his positions that he was responsible for, it was incumbent upon 
him (not IG) to initiate and pursue mitigation. As I previously said, he did not do this on 15 
March. He also did not initiate or pursue any form of mitigation on 16 March, and then on 17 
March the AM [Account Manager] called him. 
Telephone recording evidence for the call shows that, overall, Mr Ms focus in the matter was 
on speculation  as opposed to mitigation  in the form of keeping the positions open for the 
potential profit he could still make from them and doing so on the revised funding terms he 
proposed to the AM. A distinction must be drawn between these objectives. 
Mitigation in the circumstances of Mr Ms case would have meant prioritising the urgent need 
to stem the accumulating and significant funding costs that he did not want  especially in 
the somewhat grave context that what he had expected to be an annual funding cost of 
around £6,000 had turned into a daily funding cost of around £5,000  and the urgent need 
to stem the equally significant running losses in the positions of between around £82,000 to 
£120,000. This approach is what a heat of a crisis scenario would have reasonably called 
for. I do not suggest that he ought to have made irrational or uninformed decisions, but the 
facts were that he was properly informed about the matter as of 15 March and stemming his 
significant costs and losses would have been the rational (not irrational) thing to consider 
and to do in terms of mitigation. I also do not suggest that his reaction should have been 
unduly rushed, but the matter was clearly urgent (given the significant costs and losses 
involved) so it follows that his reaction could not be unduly delayed. Overall and on balance, 
I consider that Mr M ought reasonably to have taken meaningful steps to mitigate his 
position in the matter on 15 March itself. Within his evidence is confirmation of his extensive 
knowledge and experience in trading, and he held a professional client status for the 
account, so it is reasonable to expect that he would have known what to do, in terms of 
closing the positions to mitigate his costs and losses  if that is what he wanted to do.
In contrast, the objective of speculation in Mr Ms case meant prioritising and continuing the 
pursuit for profit from the relevant positions despite the significant funding costs problem that had arisen (and despite the significant running losses in the positions at the time). He 
appears to have retained his speculative motive for the positions despite these serious 
problems. In his engagement with the AM, his priority was to keep the positions open and to 
negotiate bespoke funding terms for them. This is not a criticism. Mr M was entitled to 
manage and approach his trading (and his positions) as he saw fit and he was also entitled 
to retain a speculative motive if he saw fit. However, as he accepts, a key issue in his 
complaint is the matter of mitigation, so this distinction about his motive during what he 
suggests was the heat of a crisis is important because it will not be fair to find mitigation on 
his part where none appears to have existed. 
The recordings show that the AM suggested to Mr M that he should seriously consider 
closing his positions without delay in order to mitigate. I do not consider that he needed to 
wait to hear this from the AM. As I said above, I am persuaded that such closures ought 
reasonably to have been an obvious consideration for him on 15 March. 
The AM can also be heard asking Mr M to consider and say what he would like in order to be 
put back to whole again. This appears to have suggested the next step to consider after 
closure of the positions. It seems clear from the recordings that none of these suggestions 
appealed to Mr M because he was intent upon retaining the open positions and having IG 
grant him bespoke funding terms for that. In this respect, much has been said about the AM 
saying he would see what he could do but, on balance, I am satisfied that Mr M was not 
misled in any way by this and that his expectations of the AM (and of IG) were not raised by 
this. To the contrary, given all that the AM said in response and the tone that he had at the 
time (which is reasonably evident in listening to the recording), his message to Mr M was 
that such bespoke terms were unlikely. It even appears that, in some parts of what he said, 
the AM sounded somewhat scornful of Mr Ms proposal, and like the investigator said in his 
first view he referred to Mr M being an experienced professional client and to the existence 
of information about the VIM product being available on IGs website as factors likely 
disfavour IGs consideration of the proposal. Mr M has referred to internal IG 
correspondence from 24 March, 25 March and 17 April which he says shows IG conceding 
his case, but none of these existed during the exchange on 17 March so none of these 
played a role in Mr Ms expectations at the time.
Despite the exchange on 17 March, Mr M still did not take steps to mitigate (and to close his 
positions) on this date. His closure of the positions the next day suggest to me that this is the 
point at which he eventually decided to substitute mitigation for speculation, as his objective. 
The fact that this led to closure of the positions on this date shows that he could have done 
the same earlier, on 15 March, had he wanted to. No resolution(s) was sought by him on 15 
March so none was promised to him on that date; none was promised to him on 16 March; 
and, as I treated above, none was promised to him on 17 March; so there appears to have 
been nothing, from IG, that led him to delay closure of the positions until 18 March.
IG accepted the PD and confirmed that it maintains its offer to Mr M. Mr M rejected the PDs 
outcome (and the findings supporting it). In the main, he said:
I was wrong to say, about the call on 15 March, that  the discussions ended with Mr M 
fully understanding the reality of the funding costs for his positions, because he 
expressed as much during the call. He did not fully understand. All [he] understood was 
that the product was different to the product [he] thought [he] was trading, based on the 
information easily available on IGs website. Without a clear chart showing the impact of 
costs [he] could not make any kind of informed decision. [He] left the call stating that [he] 
was going to talk to [his] account manager. [A]The PD suggests he took no action on 15 and 16 March. This is incorrect, he called IG 
on 15 March and on 16 March he called again (without getting through) and emailed his 
AM twice (copies of which he submitted to us). [B]
It was reasonable for him to approach mitigation of the matter by trying to have the 
funding terms for his trades amended. Mitigation was not limited only to the notion of 
closing those trades, the alternative that he pursued was no less a form of mitigation 
and/or was a reasonable form of mitigation. This is supported by IG eventually doing 
what he had proposed by refunding him his funding costs up to 18 March (not just up to 
15 March)  which was  the solution [he] had been proposing since 16 March . It is 
wrong for the PD to interpret his mitigation attempts as evidence of him prioritising 
speculation and the pursuit for profit in his trades. His  strong preference would have 
been to cancel the trade, but [he] felt like the most reasonable solution for both parties 
was that [he] was put onto the intended trade with no overnight funding costs. This is a 
reasonable suggestion and ultimately what IG ended up doing anyway on 31 March (up 
to and including 18 March). [C]
The PD unfairly suggests that he should be held responsible for market fluctuations, 
given that the additional losses he incurred came from the market moving against his 
positions during the relevant period. It is impossible to predict the market moves. On the 
15 March the losses were the ~£80k in price movements and ~£30k in overnight funding 
charges. Clearly neither IG nor [he] knew that over the following days the losses would 
be ~£410k. The victim cant be made responsible by the wrongdoer for the price 
fluctuations of a volatile market. [D]
The AM said enough on 17 March  such as leave it with me mate, you know Im on 
your side and Im going to try and get your money back  to prompt him, reasonably, 
to expect that IG will grant his proposal. [E]
IGs communication on 18 March was the first time it said his proposal will not be 
possible. Given this response, the absence of a reply from the AM, IGs failure to offer an 
alternative solution and the prospect of continuing to incur daily funding charges of 
£5,000 indefinitely, he decided to close the trades on this date. [F]
The PD failed to give due weight to his particular experience status in the matter, which  
for reasons he summarised  had a direct connection with the solution he proposed to IG 
and with his reasonable expectation that his proposal will be granted. [G]
He feels he  acted very reasonably, and the losses are within the scope of the duty 
broken by IG. [He] actively engaged in trying to find a solution every day on 16, 17 and 
18 March. IG ultimately offered [him] the solution [he] had asked for by refunding the 
charges but by that point [he] had already had to crystalise significant losses on the 18 
March. We are all in agreement that IG has breached their statutory duty, and yet [he is] 
still being held accountable for losses suffered due to a volatile market during that 
period. This goes against court precedent on these issues and is not a fair outcome. [H]
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the complaint and I have paid due attention to Mr Ms responses to the PD. 
Having done so, I have not been persuaded to depart from the findings and conclusion in the 
PD. I retain those findings and conclusion and I incorporate them into this decision.I have carefully considered each of Mr Ms responses to the PD. I labelled his main 
arguments, above, using the letters A to H and I will address them below using the same 
labels.
A
As I said in the PD, Copies of the relevant telephone call recordings have been shared with 
this service . This included the recording for the telephone conversation between Mr M 
and IG on 15 March 2020. My finding in the PD about the conversation on this date ending 
 with Mr M fully understanding the reality of the funding costs for his positions, because 
he expressed as much during the call was not a creation of mine, it was a finding based 
wholly on the contents of the recording I listened to. 
It is a matter of fact that, as I said in the PD  The majority of the conversation on 15 March 
featured discussions about the VIM product and Mr Ms enquiries in relation to his open 
positions, the funding costs for them, what he thought those funding costs were and then 
what IG explained to him the funding costs  in reality  were. Mr Ms concluding words in 
the conversation included what I will quoted in the next paragraph below. To provide context, 
the IG official at the other end wrapped up his explanations by making a comment about how 
Mr Ms experience would have been the opposite of where he found himself if he had held 
long (and not short) trades, which he said would have meant crediting of Mr Ms account with 
the relevant funding adjustments (instead of debiting). In response Mr M said (broadly in 
succession) 
I cant stop thinking about that trade I wish Id done that one fine Ok that makes 
sense alright thanks for clearing that up for me Ill chat with my account manager on 
Monday when hes in thanks for explaining that to me.
I consider that the statement in the PD about Mr M fully understanding the reality of the 
funding costs for his positions by the end of the conversation is supported by evidence of the 
contents of the conversation, including how the conversation ended. Indeed, he accepts that 
he understood from the conversation that the product was different to what he had initially 
thought. That difference was the funding costs, and he understood that too. 
On balance, I find it inconceivable that he needed a clear chart to understand the impact of 
costs. As I said in the PD he had expected  an annual funding cost of around £6,000 , 
that  had turned into a daily funding cost of around £5,000, which was not what he 
expected. It was this realisation that prompted his call to IG on 15 March, so his call was a 
reaction to his awareness of the different funding terms (including the impact of the funding 
costs he was liable for) and, as I set out above, by the end of the call he understood the 
different funding terms (including the funding costs he was liable for).
B
The PDs findings and conclusion were that Mr M did not mitigate as he ought to have done 
 not that he took no action. His actions were reflected in the PD. 
His comments on the PD included a chronology of events with explanations of his intentions 
at each relevant point. For 15 March he essentially says it was reasonable for him to take 
time to process the information he had been given because he did not fully understand the 
trade at that point. I have addressed this above, and I do not consider that it is supported by 
the facts I have referred to. 
For 16 March he essentially says that at this point he considered it the most reasonable solution for IG to grant him the funding terms he had expected at the outset, as opposed to 
the terms he later discovered and that he  would not have traded at all had those funding 
charges been clear. He says he considered/considers his proposal at the time to be a 
reasonable form of mitigation.
The question arising from this argument is about whether (or not) the following scenario is 
reasonable  on 16 March, Mr M had no meaningful basis to expect that his proposal will be 
grated because he had nothing from IG on this date to prompt such an expectation; he 
nevertheless decided, on such expectation, to retain his open trades with accumulating costs 
and losses; and now he says IG is liable for those losses. On balance, I do not find that this 
is reasonable. Leaving the trades open was neither necessary nor something IG led him to 
do. It was his judgement call and he was entitled to make it, but it would not be reasonable 
for IG to bear the costs of that judgment call. He could have closed the trades to stop the 
accumulating costs and losses, and then embarked upon a negotiation of his proposal with 
IG (in the context of re-opening the trades on the funding terms he sought). I have not seen 
evidence that the chances of IG granting his proposal rested on the trades remaining open  
or that those chances were aided in any way by the trades remaining open. Closure of the 
trades is more consistent with his claim that he would not have opened them had the funding 
terms been clear. Keeping them open after the funding terms were clarified to him arguably 
conflicts with that claim.
For 17 March, Mr M essentially says the AM (through comments like those he quoted) 
assured him that his proposal was likely to be granted. I disagree. I retain the PDs summary 
description of the conversation on this date and that description is like my description of the 
call on 15 March, it is not my creation and it is based on the contents of the recording (for the 
17 March call) I listened to. I consider that the comments Mr M has quoted are out of 
context. The AM sought to help but he was clear about it being unlikely IG would grant Mr 
Ms proposal. As I said in the PD he gave reasons for this. He gave no guarantees or 
assurances about the proposal during the call. With regards to the notion of getting Mr Ms 
money back, the PD referred to how the AM strongly suggested that he close the relevant 
trades, how he asked about what Mr M wanted in order to be put back to whole and how 
neither met Mr Ms interest because his focus was on retaining and continuing the open 
trades.
C
I accept that mitigation can be a subjective matter to determine, depending on the relevant 
circumstances in a particular case. I took this approach in the PD and, for the sake of clarity, 
nothing in the PD was intended to set out a generic finding on what mitigation should look 
like in every case. However, the starting point for any consideration of mitigation can 
reasonably be found in the meaning of the word itself. Mitigation is action that reduces the 
severity or seriousness of something. I consider it fair to apply this to Mr Ms argument.
As I said in the PD, on 15 March 2020 Mr M faced an  urgent need to stem the 
accumulating and significant funding costs that he did not want  especially in the somewhat 
grave context that what he had expected to be an annual funding cost of around £6,000 had 
turned into a daily funding cost of around £5,000  and the urgent need to stem the equally 
significant running losses in the positions of between around £82,000 to £120,000. [my 
emphasis]
There is a part of Mr Ms argument which appears to suggest that the contents I have 
emphasised above are inaccurate, that he was prepared to ride the market movements (and 
any associated fluctuating losses in the positions), that he reasonably focused only on 
mitigating the urgent need to stem the accumulating and significant funding costs that he did 
not want, and that he did so through his consideration and then proposal of the revised funding terms he pursued. If this is his position, there is a conflict within, or arising from, it. 
As stated in the summary of his complaint, a part of what he seeks is compensation for 
trading loss up to when he closed the trades on 18 March. If he wilfully undertook the risk of 
continuing exposure to market movements and if he intended to have his positions ride the 
market (instead of closing them), then there would be no basis to hold IG responsible for 
such loss  especially as IG played no role in his decision making or in the trades remaining 
open (to the contrary, it told him to seriously consider closing them). Furthermore, and if the 
funding matter is the only live issue, the complaint falls away, because it is an agreed fact 
that IG has already refunded to Mr M the total funding costs he incurred up to 18 March. 
If, in the alternative and as it appears, Mr M holds IG responsible for his loss up to 18 March 
then the entirety of what I have quoted above (including the emphasised part) is valid and 
the obligation for him to mitigate applied to both the accumulating funding costs and the 
accumulating losses. Mitigation in this context meant he had to try, within reason, to reduce 
the severity of both. Closing the trades upon this realisation on 15 March would have been 
action, within reason, to achieve this. Mr M did not do this. On balance, he ought reasonably 
to have done so, and I have already addressed his arguments about his delay in doing so 
between 15 and 18 March.
Trying to (re)negotiate funding costs did nothing to mitigate the running trade losses (that is 
the losses resulting from price movements). Mr M says merit in his doing so  in relation to 
the funding costs  is shown by IG eventually agreeing to refund the costs up to 18 March 
and that this was  the solution [he] had been proposing since 16 March . This is not 
quite accurate. The effect of his proposal, if successful and if applied from the outset of the 
trades, would have been twofold  redress for the disputed costs he had incurred thus far 
and continuation of the trades on revised funding terms (which was an aspect of his pursuit 
that was very important to him, because he wanted to keep the trades open). IGs refund 
achieved only half of this, it did not change the ongoing funding terms as he wanted and it is 
important to note that IG appears to have refunded the funding costs as a matter of redress 
for the substantive issue(s) it conceded, and not on the basis of revised funding terms.
On balance, I do not consider that Mr Ms attempt to (re)negotiate funding costs, whilst they 
continued to accumulate and especially without any assurance of success, mitigated that 
matter  that is, on balance, I do not consider that he was engaged in trying to reduce the 
severity of those accumulating costs in this way. Instead, I retain the view that his priority 
was to keep the trades open and, in order to make that feasible for him, he needed the 
funding terms to be revised. In this respect, I am also mindful that he did not show interest to 
match the AMs query (on 17 March) about him being put back to whole again. It is at least 
arguable that a person trying to mitigate/reduce the severity of the running costs would have 
seized the opportunity presented by this query to, first and foremost, be put back to whole. 
I understand that had Mr Ms proposal been successful (and had his proposal been applied 
to the trades from their inception) part of the outcome would have resolved the accumulating 
funding costs, but I must return to the facts that such success was out of his control, he 
knew that, he had no reasonable basis to expect it and by the time he spoke to the AM on 
17 March he was told it was unlikely. I do not consider that these indicate reasonable 
mitigation on his part. In contrast, it was within his control to close the trades on 15 March to 
stop/mitigate the running costs and then perhaps negotiate their re-openings on the revised 
funding terms he sought  which is essentially what the AM seems to have tried, without 
success, to prompt him to do on 17 March.
DI do not consider that the PD said or suggested that Mr M was/is responsible for market 
fluctuations. The PDs conclusion was that he did not mitigate as he ought reasonably to 
have. The additional losses (after 15 March) that he has referred to resulted from his 
positions remaining open and therefore subject to market movements. Mr M was responsible 
for leaving those positions open, exposed to market movements and exposed to the risk of 
further losses. This is distinct from responsibility for the market movements themselves.
E, F, G and H
I have already addressed E as part of my treatment of B above.
With regards to F, nothing from IG ever gave Mr M the impression that his proposal was 
likely to be successful. He did not raise the proposal on 15 March. On 16 March he sent an 
outline of it by email but there was no response from IG. On 17 March he discussed it with 
the AM, who told him to seriously consider closing the trades, not to keep them open on the 
expectation of something from IG and that his request was unlikely to be granted. On 18 
March IG declined his request. 
His argument in G is associated with that in F. He says his particular experience 
reasonably led him to expect approval of the revised terms he had asked for. I disagree that 
such an expectation was reasonable because of his experience. 
The experience he has cited does not involve any past incidents in which IG granted the 
same or similar request. Relevance of and any belief in that experience also appears to have 
been dispelled on 17 March when the AM said the request was unlikely to be granted, so I 
am not persuaded that he reasonably continued to hold the belief thereafter and until IGs 
response on 18 March. Ultimately, Mr Ms experience appears to have done no more than 
prompt him to take a chance with his proposal. This is not a criticism and he was entitled to 
do that if he wished. However, as I said in the PD, the task before me is to determine 
whether (or not) what he did amounted to reasonable mitigation and it would not be fair to 
say it did if it did not. On balance, I do not consider that the notion of taking such a chance is 
compatible with that of decisively mitigating/reducing the urgent severity  or heat of a crisis, 
as he describes it  of the significant running costs and losses he faced.
I am satisfied that Mr Ms points in H have been addressed across my findings in this 
decision and in the PD.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman