DRN-4230371
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as Alphera Financial Services (BMWFS) was missold to him.
What happened
In March 2022 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with BMWFS. The cash price of the car was £25,920 payable by instalments of £442.23 for 
60 months.
At the same time as he entered into the hire purchase agreement, Mr B entered into a fixed 
sum loan agreement to finance the negative equity under his previous agreement. The 
amount of credit was £1,378.21 for 60 months repayable by monthly instalments of £29.30. 
In November 2022 Mr B raised a complaint with BMWFS. He said he couldnt afford the 
agreement. BMWFS issued a final response in March 2023 in which it found the agreement 
to be affordable. At this point, Mr B said he hadnt signed either of the agreements in person 
and that he hadnt been given the opportunity to read the terms and conditions. He also said 
the finance was overpriced.  BMWFS issued a final response in April 2023 in which it said it 
wasnt upholding the misselling complaint.
Mr B remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said they were satisfied that Mr B had 
signed the agreements and that hed had the opportunity to read the terms and conditions 
including details of the interest rate and the total amount repayable.
Mr B didnt agree. He said hed never visited the dealership and that hed dealt with 
everything online. He said the signatures on the agreements didnt look like his.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at both of the finance agreements to see whether all of the key information is 
clear, whether the agreements are signed and whether BMWFS has acted fairly.
Both of the agreements have been signed electronically. BMWFS has provided an 
explanation of the process for doing this. It requires the consumer to upload a passport style 
photo so that this can be checked against the consumers photographic identification. In this 
case, Mr B provided his driving licence as identification.
Ive compared the photograph provided by Mr B to the image on his driving licence and Im 
satisfied that the images are of the same person. Im therefore persuaded that Mr B was 
happy to upload his photo and proceed with the agreements.
Ive looked at both agreements. As Ive already said, both agreements were electronically 
signed. The signatures on the agreements are different to the signature on Mr Bs driving 
licence. That said, I would expect there to be differences between a wet signature (such as 
that on the driving licence) and an electronic signature. 
Mr B has said that he didnt sign the agreements in person. This isnt the same as saying 
that Mr B didnt sign the agreements. Its not in dispute that the agreements were signed 
electronically. Just because an agreement has been signed electronically doesnt make it 
invalid.
Ive taken into account that Mr B didnt raise the issue about his signatures until around 6 
months after the inception of finance, during which time Mr B used the car and made 
monthly repayments without question. If Mr B hadnt signed the agreements, I think he 
wouldve raised this issue with BMWFS much sooner.
On balance, I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that Mr B didnt sign the finance 
agreements. I think it was reasonable for BMWFS to accept the agreements as having been 
electronically signed by Mr B.
Mr B has also said that he wasnt given the opportunity to read the terms and conditions of 
the agreements. Ive looked at the agreements and Im satisfied that the key features, such 
as the interest rate, the monthly repayments and the total amount repayable, are clearly set 
out. Mr B has signed the agreement to say that hes read and understood the terms and 
conditions. Ultimately, its a consumers responsibility to read the terms and conditions 
before signing the agreement.
Taking everything into account, Im unable to say that Mr B wasnt given the opportunity to 
read the terms and conditions before he signed the agreements. Whether or not he actually 
read these is his responsibility.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman