DRN-3281572
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car he acquired via a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
No.1 Limited had been misrepresented to him as the car had been modified.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr M acquired a used car via a five-year conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. The car was around seven and half years old and had a mileage of around 
43,000.
The advert for the car stated that its BHP was 103 and Mr M says he believed it was a 
factory standard model. When Mr M collected the car, he was given various documentation 
for it.
Mr M says he thought the car was wearing out quicker than he would expect. He says that it 
required two fuel injectors to be replaced, one in August 2019 at around 48,000 miles and a 
second when the car had a mileage of around 52,000. He decided to approach a dealership 
and arrange a part-exchange.
Mr M says that the dealership informed the value of the car was less than he had expected 
because the engine control unit (ECU) had been modified to increase the BHP to around 
148. He says that on informing his insurance company of the modification his policy was 
cancelled and he had to arrange more expensive cover.
Mr M complained to Moneybarn that the car had been misrepresented to him. Moneybarn 
asked for evidence of the modification. Mr M sent in a quote for the work included in a 
document explaining the effect of the modification dated January 2015 and a hand-written 
invoice for the work having been undertaken dated April 2015. Moneybarn requested that 
the car be tested to see if the modification was still present.
Mr M took the car to a garage for testing, this showed that the cars BHP was around 131 
and that its engine had been tuned. Mr M supplied this evidence to Moneybarn.
Moneybarn sent Mr M a final response letter to his complaint setting out that it wasnt 
upholding it. It said further evidence was needed that the modification had been present at 
the point of supply.
Mr M was unhappy at Moneybarns response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He said although he 
accepted the car had been modified before Mr M had acquired it, he didnt think there had 
been a misrepresentation. All the paperwork relating to the modification had been supplied 
to Mr M with the car.
Our investigator also said he didnt think there was evidence that the car hadnt been of 
satisfactory condition at the point of supply. Although the car had required some repairs, our 
investigator said he thought it was reasonable to consider these were due to wear and tear.
Mr M disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said hed relied on the cars advert and 
that there had been no reference at the dealership that the car had been modified. He said 
he wouldnt have purchased it if hed been aware and hed been driving around with invalid 
insurance for a long time before hed discovered the modification.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
Mr M has raised both that the car was misrepresented to him due to the modification of the 
ECU and also that this modification meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality as it wasnt 
as durable as would be reasonably be expected.
For me to be satisfied there had been a misrepresentation I would need evidence that there 
had been an untrue statement of fact that had induced Mr M to enter into the contract. Here, 
I dont know what was said by the salesperson when Mr M acquired the car though Mr M 
says he wasnt told about any modification having been being undertaken. Ive seen that 
there was an advert for the car which set out it came with the factory specifications for BHP, 
engine size etc. However, Ive also seen that Mr M was provided with all the documentation 
about the car having been modified.
Although Mr M had seen the advert, I think it would be reasonable to have expected him to 
check the paperwork he had been provided with. I cant reasonably say from the evidence 
Ive seen that Mr M was told the car hadnt been modified. I think that as he was provided 
with the information then he should have been aware about the modification. I dont think the 
car was misrepresented to Mr M.
As I dont think the car was misrepresented then I cant hold Moneybarn responsible for the 
car potentially not being properly insured.
Mr M has raised that the car was wearing out faster than hed expected. He said this 
could have been due to the modification of the ECU. As the conditional sale agreement 
entered into by Mr M is a regulated consumer credit agreement this service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price, and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
As the car was over seven years old and had a mileage of around 43,000 then I think a reasonable person would expect issues with maintenance and repair to arise over 
time. Unlike a new car there wouldnt be an expectation it would be fault free.
Mr M has provided an invoice for a fuel injector being replaced in August 2019. This 
was around seven months after Mr M had acquired the car and hed driven around 
5,000 miles in it. Looking at the time that had passed since the inception of the credit 
agreement and the mileage driven before this repair, I dont think I can reasonably 
say this fault had been present or developing at the point of supply. 
Although I accept a fuel injectors life span is generally longer than around 48,000 
miles there can be a number reasons for this part to fail. It wouldnt necessarily be 
due to an inherent fault. I havent seen any job card regarding the second fuel injector 
Mr M says was repaired at around 52,000 miles so I dont know why that was 
replaced.  
As I havent seen any evidence that the fuel injectors needing replacing was solely 
linked to the modification of the ECU then I cant fairly say that the modification has 
caused premature wearing of the car. So, I think on the evidence Ive seen that its 
fair to say that the repair was more likely than not due to wear and tear and the car 
was as durable as a reasonable person would reasonably expect.
I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mr M but for the reasons given above Im 
not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman