DRN-1501937
The complaint
Mr S  a sole trader -  is unhappy that Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity 
Company didnt cancel the account hed set up for business purposes after hed given 
written notice for it to be closed.
What happened
Mr S had an account with Elavon and he says he wrote to Elavon in December 2018 
requesting it to be closed. Elavon didnt do this and the account remained opened until 
October 2019. 
Mr S is unhappy that the account remained open for much longer than it shouldve been and, 
as such, he says hes been unnecessarily charged a monthly fee for use of the account. He 
cancelled the direct debit payment for the account in the summer of 2019 but now owes over 
£140 in outstanding fees from when the direct debit was cancelled to when the 
account closed. He didnt think that was fair, especially as he hadnt used the account since 
January 2019. So Mr S complained to Elavon but his complaint wasnt upheld. Elavon says it 
has no record of having received notice to close the account in December 2018.
Unhappy, Mr S complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. As 
Mr S disagrees, his complaint has now been passed to me look at everything afresh and 
make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill 
explain why.
Elavons terms of service say Mr S can request Elavon to close the account providing one 
months notice. It goes on to say that any notice may be served either in writing (including to 
a prescribed email address) or upon telephoning customer services. 
Mr S says he wrote to Elavon at their postal address in December 2018, giving notice to 
close the account. Elavon says it has no record of ever having received this and 
unfortunately Mr S didnt retain a copy - and nor is there any record of it having been sent. 
Having not received any acknowledgement from Elavon that the letter had been received, Mr 
S didnt chase Elavon for a reply, it continued to collect direct debit payments from 
the account and continued to issue monthly account statements which Mr S couldve 
accessed via the online portal. 
On the balance of probabilities, I dont have enough to say that Mr S sent a letter to Elavon 
requesting the account be closed. So, all in all, I dont think Elavon has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by not closing it in January 2019.
I can see that Elavon did send Mr S emails in August and September 2019 - which included 
asking him to provide / confirm information as a result of a recent review of the data it held on his account because of the introduction of certain regulations. Mr S did reply to both 
emails saying that hed requested his account be closed months ago. However, Elavon 
didnt look into this issue then or take action to close the account. It wasnt until after Mr S 
complained about the account not being closed towards the end of September 2019, that 
Elavon took this as notice that he wanted the account closed and proceeded to do so a 
month later.
I dont think Elavon acted unreasonably by waiting until then to close the account. And the 
emails Mr S sent in August and September 2019 werent sent to the email address 
prescribed in Elavons terms of service referred to above. So I dont think its acted 
unreasonably by not treating these emails as formal notice to close the account. 
Nor do I think Elavon has acted unfairly by charging Mr S for the months the account  wasnt 
used, but remained open. The terms say a monthly minimum service charge will apply to the 
account if the total transactions during that particular month dont exceed a certain level. So 
although no transactions were being made on this account, it still incurred the service charge 
along with the usual rental fees. 
Ive also taken into account that there was no activity on Mr Ss account after January 2019. 
However, I dont think this means Elavon shouldve reasonably been aware that he no longer 
wanted the account or that because it wasnt being used, it shouldve automatically been 
closed.  I also note that Mr S says he was put off accessing the online portal to view his 
statements as it was unnecessarily daunting. However, from what Ive seen, the statements 
were available to view and if there was a problem accessing the portal, he couldve raised 
this directly with Elavon.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2020. 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman