DRN-2961392
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Coventry Building Society didnt reduce the interest rate on his 
mortgage in March 2020 in line with reductions in the Bank of England base rate (base 
rate). Hes said that he wouldnt have taken out the mortgage if hed known Coventry would 
only increase the rate, and not decrease it. 
What happened
A mortgage offer was issued in August 2017 which set out the terms of the mortgage 
contract. That said Mr B was borrowing £250,000 over 22 years on a repayment basis. The 
product was called Offset Flexx for Term and that was described in the offer as A variable 
rate, currently 1.59%, which is managed by Coventry Building Society and is set 
independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate, to the end 
of the mortgage term. The mortgage completed in November 2017.
In December 2017 the rate increased to 1.84%.
In August 2018 Coventry wrote to Mr B to tell him the interest rate, and therefore the monthly 
payments, on his mortgage was going up. The letter said In line with the terms and 
conditions of your mortgage we have carried out a monthly review of our variable mortgage 
rates, taking into account recent changes to the Bank of England Base Rate and the costs 
involved in providing your mortgage. As a result the rate you pay on your mortgage is 
increasing to 2.09%.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr B complained to Coventry after the base rate reduction as he was unhappy that Coventry 
hadnt reduced his interest rate, instead it had kept the rate for the Flexx for Term product 
the same.
Coventry didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it needed to consider the interests of its 
membership as a whole, and its priority had been to make sure borrowers could access 
payment deferrals if they needed them, and to reduce interest rates for those borrowers who 
were on higher rates. It reminded Mr B that there was no early repayment charge (ERC) so 
he could move to a different product  or lender  if he wanted to.
As Mr B didnt agree he referred his complaint to this service. In their complaint form he said 
that although it is marketed as a non-tracker rate, in practice it had previously always 
followed base rate. He feels this set a precedent. He says it was sold to him as a variable 
rate product, but he believes it is instead a collar product, and therefore feels it was mis-sold 
and he wants his £999 product fee he paid in 2017 refunded.
Our investigator considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. She 
said, in summary:
Coventry had made Mr B aware of the type of interest rate he was taking out.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why, and 
she thought Coventry had exercised those terms fairly.
There were no obvious barriers to Mr B either taking a new product with Coventry or 
moving his mortgage to a new lender if he felt the interest rate was no longer 
competitive.
The pandemic was an extraordinary situation that meant Coventry needed to offer 
support to borrowers that were struggling, and it had to move to running its 
operations remotely. She felt the substantial challenge provided by the pandemic led 
to changes in the way any lender would need to run its business.
The current interest rate of 2.09% was a competitive rate across the wider mortgage 
market, particularly for a product offering such flexibility.
The product wasnt mis-sold to Mr B as it is a variable rate, not a collar rate. As the 
product wasnt mis-sold, Coventry doesnt need to refund the product fee.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators assessment. He said, in summary:
Just because it used to operate as a variable rate mortgage doesnt mean it still 
does. Since he took out the mortgage the base rate has reduced significantly yet his 
rate hasnt gone down.
Surely past performance is either linked or not linked. By saying it has previously 
gone down with base rate, but not accepting that means it always should, is a double 
standard.
The base rate now is lower than when he took out his mortgage, but his interest rate 
is higher. He wants a reasonable scenario of when his rate might ever go below the 
level it was when he took out this mortgage.
Our investigator discussed those points with Mr B, and he asked that his complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What 
this means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions 
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at. For that reason I wont be answering 
Mr Bs question about when his rate might reduce to a certain level, nor will I be ordering 
Coventry to.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing for Mr B. Its the nature of what 
we do that we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are based on consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We 
look at what happened and whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, good 
industry practice and the relevant terms and conditions of the mortgage, the lender acted 
fairly and reasonably.
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr B entered into, and whether the 
nature of the product was fairly explained by Coventry at the time.
What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
The mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
OFL59  Offset Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 1.59%, which is managed by 
Coventry Building Society and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the 
Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Advance, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Society at a 
rate, currently 1.59%, which will be set independently of The Society's Standard Variable 
Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
From that we can see this is a variable rate product that isnt linked to either the standard 
variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage product.
Mr B has said that previously the rate had increased and reduced in line with base rate 
changes, which sets a precedent. But that hasnt always been the case. Whilst Coventry had 
changed the products rate by the same differential the five previous times the base rate had 
changed, the three base rate changes before that hadnt been reflected with a matching 
differential change across the board.
I understand Mr B believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the base rate 
is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate products. But 
Ive not seen any evidence that Coventry told Mr B that his interest rate would always 
change in line with the base rate, and his mortgage offer clearly explains the interest rate is 
set independently of the base rate.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Coventry set out the details of the interest rate of 
the product clearly and unambiguously, explaining it wasnt linked to the base rate. For that 
reason there are no grounds for me to order Coventry to refund the product fee. Although Im 
satisfied Mr B wasnt misled as to the nature of the interest rate of the product, I still need to 
decide if Coventry acted fairly.
Was it fair for Coventry to increase the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, and not reduce it in 
2020?
The Mortgage Conditions Issue K booklet records the general terms and conditions 
applicable to the mortgage. That says:
5.1 We may change the Interest Rate for any of the following reasons (which may relate 
to circumstances existing at the time or those which we reasonably expect to apply in 
the near future):
5.1.1 to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate (or, if that rate has 
ceased to exist, the equivalent lending rate set by the Bank of England or by any 
central bank that has replaced it);5.1.2 to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court or ombudsman;
5.1.3 to meet relevant regulatory requirements;
5.1.4 to respond to new or amended statements or codes of practice designed to 
enhance consumer protection; or
5.1.5 to respond to changes in the costs legitimately incurred by us in conducting our 
mortgage lending activities, including the cost of funding those activities.
The increases in 2017 and 2018 were due to clause 5.1.1 and 5.1.5; that is, an increase in 
the base rate, and changes in the costs incurred by Coventry in respect of mortgage lending. 
But although the condition says the interest rate may change when base rate changes, it 
doesnt say it has to do so.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Mr B said As a consumer I expect the banks behaviour to be consistent with it's underlying 
costs, especially when history shows that this is how the bank behaves. If the Bank wants to 
advertise there is no cause and effect then it should actually do this in practice and when I 
bought the product it led me to believe by it's actions that there was cause and effect to the 
BoE rate change. I don't believe I made an un-reasonable assumption that the Coventry led 
me to believe, by its past actions.
I agree Coventrys costs increased in 2017 and 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus 
Coventry also increased the interest rate on this product by the same amount of percentage 
points. But I dont agree that it must follow that Coventrys costs decreased in March 2020 as 
the costs dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr Bs mortgage in 
isolation. 
The base rate decreased, but Coventry incurred additional costs across its mortgage 
function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment deferrals meaning mortgage 
payments werent being made when expected, needing to move to a remote way of working, 
and making its branch network Covid-secure, for example. Coventry didnt have the same 
level of increased costs when the base rate was reduced previously so theyre not 
comparable. Im satisfied Coventry has shown that the events of 2020 were different to those 
of 2017 and 2018, and Im satisfied that Coventry has shown that its costs increased in 2020 
even though base rate fell. The information showing that has been provided to us in 
confidence as it is commercially sensitive, so were unable to disclose it to Mr B.
Coventry needed to make some decisions about the best way to assist those people that 
needed help the most; it didnt feel able to reduce all its variable rates in line with the base 
rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of uncertainty. 
Coventry made the decision to reduce the interest rates for those borrowers that were on a 
much higher variable rate than Mr B (customers were paying 4.99% on the standard variable 
rate, compared to the 2.09% Mr B was paying). That seems a fair decision for Coventry to 
have made. 
Mr B has said that the rate doesnt get reduced so that means it isnt a variable rate product 
which is what it was sold to him as. But theres no rate floor - collar - and the rate can be reduced. It is unfortunate here that the base rate reduction came at a time Coventry suffered 
from increased costs so it wasnt able to reduce the products interest rate at that time. But 
the last three times the base rate had been reduced (going back to February 2009), 
Coventry had reduced the interest rate for the product by the same amount of percentage 
points.
The product Mr B has allows him the flexibility to switch to another interest rate product with 
Coventry at any time if he no longer felt the Flexx for Term product offered value for money. 
Im satisfied that other interest rate products were available to Mr Bs mortgage if he had 
wanted to switch to them and that there would have been no Early Repayment Charge 
(ERC) to pay or other contractual barrier that would have prevented this. 
He could also have shopped around and remortgaged to another lender, if he felt the interest 
rate products offered by Coventry werent competitive in the market. Mr B doesnt have to 
move to a new product with Coventry, or to a new lender, if he doesnt want to. But if he 
doesnt apply for another product then Mr B will remain on the 2.09% Flexx for Term interest 
rate  which Coventry may or may not vary, in line with the terms and conditions, in the 
future. 
From my wider knowledge of the mortgage market, I consider that the interest rate even 
remaining at 2.09% is competitive bearing in mind the level of flexibility the product offers. 
However, if Mr B doesnt agree he has the option to remortgage to another lender and the 
only cost currently of ending this Coventry mortgage is a £125 mortgage exit fee (as set out 
in his mortgage offer). Alternatively that fee wouldnt be charged if he chooses to simply 
change to a new product with Coventry instead. 
I understand the process to take out a new product is fairly straightforward and makes it 
easy for existing customers to get access to new interest rate products. So Im satisfied 
there were no practical or contractual barriers preventing Mr B from coming out of this 
mortgage product if he wanted to look for another interest rate either with Coventry or 
elsewhere. It seems Mr B could have taken out another product, but he chose not to.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Bs frustration that his mortgage interest rate wasnt reduced Im 
satisfied Coventry didnt act unfairly when it increased the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, but 
then didnt reduce the interest rate in line with the base rate reductions in 2020.
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr B may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman