DRN-2615194
The complaint
Mr H complains about Ageas Insurance Limited and their decision to decline his travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr H travelled abroad. He purchased a travel insurance policy 
underwritten by Ageas to cover him while he travelled.
Unfortunately, on the last night of his stay, Mr H says his wallet was stolen. So, upon his 
return home, Mr H submitted a claim for the personal money that was in the wallet at the 
time of the theft as well as the cost of replacing a number of cards.
But Ageas declined his claim. They explained that Mr H needed to provide a written police 
report from a local police station. And Mr H hadnt done so. They explained any claim 
without this was excluded from the policy.
Mr H wasnt happy with this, so he raised a complaint. He explained he was unable to obtain 
a police report on the night of the theft as the local police station was closed at the time. But 
he says he reported it to his hotel. And he says he was unable to obtain a report from the 
local police station the following morning as he had to travel to the airport to ensure he made 
his departing flight. He explained he spoke to the local police at the airport, but they didnt 
have the relevant forms to complete. So, he was told he could report the theft to his local 
police station in the UK and they could obtain a report from them on his behalf. But upon 
returning to the UK, he found this wasnt the case. Mr H felt hed done all he could do to 
obtain a report and because of this thought Ageas were acting unfairly when declining the 
claim. So, he wanted them to cover the losses he claimed for.
Ageas didnt agree. They thought the terms of the policy were clear and explained clearly 
that a police report would be required to show evidence of the theft. And without this, the 
claim was excluded under the terms of the policy. So, although they recognised the difficulty 
of Mr Hs situation, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong. So, they didnt offer to do 
anything more. Mr H remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to 
us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt dispute Mr Hs 
version of event or that hed been the victim of theft. And she recognised the upset this 
wouldve caused. But she thought the terms and conditions of the policy clearly stated that 
any claim without a written police report would be excluded, and so declined. And she 
explained shed seen no evidence to show Mr H had attempted to speak to the police either 
on the night of the theft, or the following day at the airport. So, she didnt think she could say 
Ageas had acted unfairly. And because of this, she didnt think it would be fair to say they 
should uphold his claim.
Mr H didnt agree. He thought hed acted in line with the policy by reporting the crime to the 
local police within 24 hours of the event. And he provided evidence to show the local police 
station was closed when the theft occurred and when the hotel called them on his behalf the 
following morning. He thought hed done all he reasonably could to mitigate his losses and 
obtain a report. So, he didnt think it was fair for Ageas to decline the claim. As Mr H didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this complaint has caused Mr H. I dont doubt Mr Hs 
version of events or the fact he was the victim of a theft while he was abroad. Im aware an 
amount of cash was stolen, as well as cards that have cost him money and time to replace. 
And I can appreciate the upset and inconvenience this has caused. Im can also recognise 
how Mr H purchased the insurance policy to make situations such as this less stressful and 
this wouldnt have been the case when he realised the claim wouldnt be upheld. But for me 
to say Ageas have done something wrong, Id need to see they failed to act within the terms 
and conditions of the policy. Or if they did, that their reasoning for declining the claim was 
unfair. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Mr H held with Ageas. They explain under 
the section headed Personal Money that Mr H isnt covered for loss or theft unless you 
have reported the loss or theft to the nearest police authority within 24 hours of discovery 
and have obtained a written police report.
Its not in dispute that Mr H hasnt been unable to obtain a written police report. So, I think 
Ageas acted in line within the terms of the policy when declining the claim on that basis. So, 
I cant say they acted unreasonably when doing so.
But as I explained above, Im also able to consider whether I think Ageas acted unfairly, 
even though the decline fell within the terms of the policy.
Mr H has explained the difficulty he faced when trying to report his claim. I recognise the 
theft occurred late on the evening before he was due to fly home. And Ive seen a 
screenshot hes provided which shows the current opening times of the most local police 
station which shows it closes much earlier in the day. Because of this, I dont doubt he was 
told by his hotel that the local police station was closed that evening.
But I dont think this definitively meant he was unable to report the theft to the police. I 
wouldve expected to see evidence that showed Mr H attempted to contact the police 
anyway, even if the local station was closed. I dont think its reasonable to assume there 
was no way of contacting the police after 2pm on that afternoon. Mr H has said he asked the 
hotel to do so on his behalf but unfortunately, I have no evidence of this.
And I also have no evidence to show Mr H spoke to the police in the airport the following 
morning. Thats not to say I dont think he did so but when Ageas assessed the claim, their 
decision would be based on the evidence they had available.
The reason for a police report being obtained is to evidence that a theft has taken place. And 
without one, this leaves Ageas as the insurer vulnerable to fraudulent claims. Thats not to 
say I think Mr Hs claim was. As Ive explained, I dont doubt Mr Hs version of events were correct. But without any evidence to show this is the case, I dont think Ageas had enough 
information to assess the claim and decide that the claim fell within the policy terms. 
So, although I do think Mr H took steps, he thought were reasonable at the time, I dont think 
these were enough to satisfy the terms of the policy. I dont think its reasonable for me to 
say Ageas shouldve upheld the claim based purely on Mr Hs testimony. As Ive explained, 
the written report is required to confirm a theft definitely took place in order to protect Ageas 
position as the insurer. So, without any evidence to confirm this, I cant say that Ageas have 
acted unfairly. And because of this, I cant say theyve done anything wrong and so, I dont 
think they need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Ageas Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman