DRN-2646822
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, didnt issue a 
pro-rata refund of his account fee when they asked them to.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have an account with Clydesdale. In December 2018, Mr and Mrs G were 
informed that the online banking facility would no longer be available from January 2021. Mr 
and Mrs G made a complaint to Clydesdale in response to this and asked for a pro-rata 
refund of annual fee that they pay for the account.
Clydesdale looked at Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. They felt that the account still retained 
features that merited the account fee. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs G werent satisfied with Clydesdales response, so they referred their complaint 
to this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they noted that 
Clydesdales actions were permitted by the terms and conditions of the account, and they 
also felt that the other features of the account warranted the fee being charged. So, they 
didnt uphold the complaint either.
Mr and Mrs G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs G feel strongly about this complaint and feel that the removal of 
online banking function means that the usefulness of the account to them has been 
considerably reduced.
However, the terms and conditions of the account do appear to permit the changes to the 
account that Clydesdale have made here. With the relevant clauses within the terms being 
as follows:
16. Can this agreement be changed?
16.2. As well as for the reasons given above, we may also change this agreement to:
Reflect new technology and other innovations, or changes to systems or card 
schemes
Change our services or how we operate
Make the agreement clearer to you and to correct errors
16.3. We will give you 30 days notice when making a change to your disadvantage. 
If the change is to a rate of interest you will have another 30 days during which you 
can tell us you want to stop using your card and pay back the balance within a 
reasonable time, at the existing rate
I understand that Mr and Mrs G have questioned whether the above clause 16.3 applies only 
when changes are being made to a rate of interest. But my reading of the clause is that 30-
days notice will be provided in all instances, and an additional 30-days notice given when 
changes are being made to an interest rate.
So, Im satisfied that Clydesdale were entitled to make the changes to the account that they 
did. And given that Mr and Mrs G were informed that the online banking function would be 
removed on 8 December 2020, and that this change was then implemented at the end of 
January 2021, Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs G were given a period of notice that was 
greater than 30-days and so was compliant with the terms and conditions of the account.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs G have advised that they did not have access to a copy of the 
terms and conditions of the account, but that these have now been provided to them for their 
review. I can understand Mr and Mrs Gs concern that they have been unable to confirm 
whether the terms and conditions of the account permit the actions of Clydesdale until 
recently, but this doesnt affect the validity of those terms and conditions. 
When Mr and Mrs G became aware that the online banking function was being removed, 
they contacted Clydesdale and requested that the account fee be reimbursed to them on a 
pro-rata basis. Importantly, Mr and Mrs G did not ask to close their account.
I understand that Mr and Mrs G might feel that the online banking function was critical to 
their usage of the account and that they wouldnt use the account in the same manner as 
they had done previously if that function were removed. 
But the account has several other features which remain available to Mr and Mrs G. And 
while Mr and Mrs G may choose not to access the account via any of the other avenues of 
account access available to them, and so may choose to not utilise the other features of the 
account, the account does ultimately remain open and available to them. So, it doesnt follow 
from this that it is fair or reasonable that Clydesdale should reimburse Mr and Mrs G the fee 
that they charge for the account.
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Clydesdale took the annual account fee shortly after they 
complained to them about the online banking function being removed and requested the pro-
rate reimbursement of the account fee on that basis. But given that I cant conclude that 
Clydesdale should have reimbursed this fee, as explained above, and given that Mr and Mrs 
G hadnt requested the closure of his account, I also cant conclude that Clydesdale acted 
unreasonably by taking the annual account fee when it became due.
If it had been the case that Mr and Mrs G had requested the closure of their account 
because of the perceived unsuitability of it following the removal of the online banking 
function, then I may well view this matter differently. But it doesnt feel fair or reasonable to 
expect Clydesdale to have effectively agreed to provide Mr and Mrs G with a non-fee paying 
account when all of the other functions of the account remained available to Mr and Mrs G, 
regardless of whether they intended to use them or not.
All of which means that its difficult for me to consider that Clydesdale have acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking 
Clydesdale to take any further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that 
Mr and Mrs G was wanting, but I hope they can understand, based on everything I have 
explained above, why I have reached the decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman