DRN-1879953
 
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC reduced his credit card account limit 
without notice. 
What happened
On 15 August 2019 Barclays emailed Mr O (and sent him an SMS) to say that it had to lower 
the amount he could borrow on his credit card. And so on 13 August 2019 his credit limit had 
changed from £15,500 to £12,950.
Following receipt of the above notices, Mr O complained to Barclays.
Barclays responded to Mr O to say that his credit limit had been reduced in line with its 
policy so it wasnt upholding his complaint. But as a gesture of goodwill it had credited his 
account with £25.
It also said that the decision to reduce the credit limit was taken following a review, a review 
which had highlighted a high level of borrowing and a low level of repayment on the account.
Unhappy with Barclaycards response, Mr O referred a complaint to our service. In doing so, 
he added that his credit score had also fallen since Barclays had taken the decision to 
reduce his credit limit.
Mr Os complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
shouldnt be upheld. In summary, she said Barclays had acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, he said it was entirely unfair for 
Barclays to reduce his credit limit when he had always operated the account in line with the 
terms and conditions and given that it had been responsible for various credit limit increases 
in the past. He also reiterated that his credit score had fallen since Barclays had taken the 
decision to reduce his credit limit.
The investigator considered Mr Os response to her view but wasnt persuaded to change 
her mind. Therefore, the complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.  
 
 
 
 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its clear Mr O has very strong feelings about this complaint. He has provided detailed 
submissions in support of his view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr O will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I would also add that Im satisfied that Mr O has had sufficient time to submit everything he 
would like me to take into account, and I see no good reason to delay the issue of this final 
decision.
The terms and conditions of the account state: 
If we reduce your credit limit based on an assessment of risk or your ability to repay, we 
have the right to not give you any notice beforehand if we think this would not be 
appropriate. (However, we may choose to give you up to seven days notice). We wont 
reduce your credit limit to less than your total outstanding balance, plus any transactions 
authorised but not yet charged to your account. 
So, Im satisfied Barclays have the right to reduce the credit limit based on an assessment of 
risk in line with the terms and conditions of the account. I appreciate Mr O feels these terms 
and conditions are unfair, but before opening the account he would have had to agree that 
he had read and consented to them. With that in mind I think its reasonable to suggest if 
Mr O was unhappy with the terms and conditions, he wouldnt have proceeded to open the 
account. 
Mr O has said that its not fair that Barclays based its decision to reduce his limit due to a 
high level of borrowing and low level of repayment when it was the one that had, over the 
years, increased his credit limit.
But in my view regardless of how the increases in Mr Os credit limit came about, and I 
would add that it would appear that the last increase was for only £500 and back in 
October 2016, Barclays was still entitled to carry out a review of Mr Os account and if 
appropriate reduce the credit limit. So I cant say Barclays acted unreasonably (or unfairly) 
by doing this. 
I appreciate that Barclays didn't give Mr O any notice before it reduced the credit limit. 
Indeed, it only told him of the reduction 2 days after it had taken effect. But again, the terms 
do make it clear that Barclays dont have to give prior notice. I would also add that Ive seen 
no evidence to suggest that Barclays reduced the limit to a level below Mr Os outstanding 
balance on 13 August 2019. Indeed, its my understanding that Mr O himself has confirmed 
that he had £500 of credit available following the credit limit reduction. So I cant say 
Barclays acted unreasonably (or unfairly) in reducing the credit limit to the sum that it did. 
I can see that Mr O also says that Barclays actions caused him both stress and for his credit 
score to fall.
Now I dont dispute that having his credit limit reduced might have caused Mr O some stress. 
But given that I dont think Barclays acted unreasonably or unfairly in reducing Mr Os credit 
limit, Im not persuaded it would be appropriate for me to make any award for this.The investigator asked Mr O to provide our service with a copy of his credit file, but Mr O 
didnt do so. So although I accept Mr Os credit score could have fallen as a result of 
Barclays decision to reduce his credit limit Ive seen no documentary evidence to support 
this, and certainly no documentary evidence to support that this was the sole reason for the 
fall. 
But even if Mr O had provided documentary evidence to support Barclays decision to reduce 
his credit limit had caused his credit score to fall, given that Ive concluded that Barclays has 
done nothing wrong in this case Im not persuaded it would be appropriate for me to make 
an award in this respect.
I appreciate Mr O will be disappointed, but in summary Im not persuaded that Barclays has 
done anything wrong in this case, or that it has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Peter Cook
Ombudsman