DRN-1361241
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1996 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD (AXA). This is 
because Financial Insurance Company Limited has transferred responsibility for PPI 
complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing 
else has changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Mrs L says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely AXA made it clear Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember this over 24 years later. I say 
this because AXA has provided a copy of the credit agreement for the store card. To get the 
PPI, Mrs L had to tick a box for it. The box is ticked and Mrs L has signed the form at the 
bottom, which, most likely, denotes her agreement with the forms contents. So, it seems 
most likely that Mrs L would have been given a choice about taking the policy. Ive noted that 
theres no language on any documentary evidence that suggests the credit is dependent on 
taking out PPI.  
I know that Mrs L told us she didnt tick for the PPI. But the form is ticked and she signed the 
form which denotes her agreement to its contents. Its the case that there is no evidence to 
support her testimony, so at this distance in time from the sale, whilst acknowledging that 
things could have happened just as Mrs L said, I have seen insufficient evidence to be able 
to uphold her complaint on this point.  
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure she got the information she needed so she could decide if it was right 
for her.
The information AXA gave Mrs L about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But I think its likely Mrs L would have had some understanding that it would pay a 
benefit if she wasnt able to work because she was sick or became unemployed. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time it seems that she was eligible 
for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. 
And it appears that Mrs L would have benefited from the cover. I say this because Mrs L told 
us that whilst she had good sick pay initially, it dropped significantly after six months, such 
that she might have had to rely on savings she had put aside to cover home improvements. 
Having the PPI would mean the policy would pay out for longer than her employer would pay 
her sick pay at her full rate of pay and it would reduce her reliance on any help she may 
have had to seek from her savings to repay the store card. So I think the PPI could have 
been useful for her.
So having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs L off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman