DRN-2874309
The complaint
Mr & Mrs D complain on behalf of their daughter Miss D, that Monmouthshire Building 
Society (MBS) incorrectly rejected a deposit into their daughters savings account and 
subsequently closed the account. 
What happened
Mr & Mrs D says they transferred a substantial sum from Mrs Ds savings account with 
another bank (Bank A) to a Young Savers account opened in their daughters name, with 
MBS. Mr & Mrs D says they received a telephone call a couple of days after sending the 
payment informing them the funds were being returned to the sending bank, Bank A. In the 
meantime, Mrs D had closed her savings account with Bank A and there was a delay in her 
getting her monies back, which took two weeks and she had lost interest on the savings, as 
a result. Mr & Mrs D also say MBS then wrote to Mrs D informing her they were closing their 
daughters account, but no further explanation was given. Mr & Mrs D want MBS to be pay 
them the interest they have lost during this time. 
MBS says the payment received into the Young Savers account was in the name of Mrs D 
and not her daughter, so they acted correctly returning the monies to Bank A. MBS accept it 
took longer than usual for the monies to be returned to Mrs D but this in part was due to the 
fact she had closed her bank account with Bank A and the funds were held in Bank As 
suspense account. MBS says they gave two months notice to close their daughters Young 
Savers account, which is in line with their terms and conditions and have done nothing 
wrong. 
Mr & Mrs D were unhappy with MBSs response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt MBS acted fairly when returning the payment back to the sending bank as the funds 
were sent in favour of Mrs D and not her daughter, in whose name the account was opened. 
The investigator says under the terms and conditions of the account MBS are able to close 
the account without explanation, provided they gave the correct notice period in writing, and 
they did here. 
Mr & Mrs D werent happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be frustrating for Mr & Mrs D to have thought they had made 
arrangements to open a savings account for their daughter, only to find the payment was 
rejected and then told by MBS the savings account was to be closed. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if MBS acted reasonably when sending back 
the payment intended for Mr & Mrs Ds daughters Young Savers account, and if they acted 
fairly when requesting the closure of that account. 
What happened here was Mrs D sent a payment from her savings account with Bank A to an 
account she had opened for her daughter, Miss D, with her as signatory given her daughters 
age. This was a sizeable sum and in the process of transferring these monies Mrs D closed 
her savings account with Bank A. From what I can see while MBS initially accepted the 
deposit, on the same day they arranged for the funds to be returned, as the payment was in 
favour of Mrs D and not her daughter, in whose name the account was opened. 
So, when looking at this part of Mr & Mrs Ds complaint I cant say that MBS have done 
anything wrong here as any funds deposited into that account would need to be made 
payable to Miss D, and it wasnt here. Mr & Mrs D feel that MBS should have accepted the 
deposit but says they have lost out on interest, given the time it took MBS to return the funds 
back to Bank A. 
From the information provided to this service, MBS use a third-party bank for clearing 
payments and this may be part of the reason for why it took longer than it might, if for 
example they were a UK clearing bank, but theyre not. Having said that, its important to say 
that Mrs D, in the meantime closed her bank account with Bank A. From what I have seen, 
on balance, I am satisfied this has, in all probability, added to the delays in Mrs D eventually 
getting her monies returned and I cant hold MBS fully responsible for that. In any event, 
while Mr & Mrs D may not agree, what is important here is the monies were sent incorrectly 
to the wrong beneficiary and this is why the payment was rejected in the first place.
Mr & Mrs D are also unhappy that MBS then wrote to Mrs D giving notice they were closing 
her daughters Young Savers account. Mr & Mrs D say MBS havent provided them with a 
credible reason for this. I can see this would be disappointing for Mr & Mrs D here but 
building societies like MBS do not have to give an explanation for the closure of an account, 
provided they give sufficient notice to do so, and they did here. 
I say this because under section 12.6 of its General Terms and Conditions for Savings 
Accounts, it says : 
We can close your account (unless it is a fixed term account) by giving you two months 
written notice or if longer, the period of notice required for you to make withdrawals from 
your account.
I can see the notice to close their daughters savings account was sent dated 24 February 
2021 and gave the two months notice required. It follows, I cant say that MBS have done 
anything wrong here. 
While Mr & Mrs D will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of MBS. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman