DRN-3754828
The complaint
Mr M complains Sainsbury's Bank Plc wont refund him for cash machine withdrawals.
What happened
Mr M lost his Sainsburys credit card whilst at the gym. Mr Ms card was used at a cash 
machine to withdraw a total of £300.
Mr M says the padlock he used had the same combination as his personal identification 
number (PIN) for his card. Mr M thinks he only turned one number on the padlock when 
locking it and was possibly overseen.
Mr M contacted Sainsburys to report the loss of his card and the fraudulent use. Sainsburys 
investigated the cash machine withdrawals and declined to refund the £300. Sainsburys 
said it couldnt see how someone else had known Mr Ms PIN.
Unhappy with this response Mr M complained but Sainsburys didnt change its mind. Mr M 
brought his complaint to this service, and an investigator looked into things for him.
The investigator thought Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. The investigator thought Mr M 
hadnt carried out the transactions so it was unfair for Sainsburys to hold him liable for the 
cash machine withdrawals, and Sainsburys should refund the money.
Sainsburys disagreed with the investigator. Sainsburys felt Mr Ms explanation of how his 
PIN might have been known by someone else wasnt plausible and Mr M hadnt mentioned 
the padlock code and PIN being the same until he brought his complaint to this service.
Sainsburys said it was possible Mr M had confused his credit card with his debit card and 
withdrew cash without realising it was his credit card. Sainsburys asked for an ombudsman 
to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The withdrawals were made on Mr Ms credit card. The rules around when Sainsburys can 
and cant hold Mr M liable for a payment made on his credit card are in the consumer credit 
act, sections 83 and 84.
Section 83(1) says Mr M cant be held liable for any loss arising from use of the credit facility 
by another person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as the debtors agent. But, where a 
card is used, section 83 must be read along with section 84.
Section 84(1) says Sainsburys can hold Mr M liable for £35 for losses. And section 84(2) 
says Sainsburys can hold Mr M liable for any use of a credit token (Mr Ms credit card) by a 
person who acquired possession of it with Mr Ms consent.
I need to decide if Mr M authorised the cash machine withdrawals or allowed someone else 
to carry them out on his behalf. If I believe this happened, Sainsburys can fairly hold Mr M 
liable for the cash machine withdrawals.
But, if I believe Mr M didnt carry out the withdrawals, or allow someone else to do so with 
his consent, then it would be fair for Sainsburys to refund the withdrawals.
Mr Ms credit card was used at a cash machine. Whoever used the card initially tried to 
withdraw £500. This amount was over the daily withdrawal limit, so it was declined. The next 
withdrawal was successful, for £20, then £230 and £50 was withdrawn.
I think this shows whoever had Mr Ms credit card didnt know how much they could withdraw 
at one time. This suggests it wasnt Mr M making the withdrawals.
Sainsburys has said Mr M might have confused his debit card withdrawal limit with his credit 
card limit. And whilst this is possible, Id expect Mr M to have withdrawn £300 in one go, not 
split the withdrawals in a way suggestive of testing the card and its withdrawal limits.
The first two transactions add up to £250, which is often the withdrawal limit for a card. 
Some cards allow £300 to be withdrawn per day, and thats what appears to have happened 
with the further £50 withdrawal.
Whoever had the card knew they couldnt take £500, that had been declined. It appears they 
tested the card with an initial £20 withdrawal, and once that worked took the difference up to 
£250. The further £50 was to see if the withdrawal limit was £300 and not £250.
Sainsburys has said it cant see how someone else got Mr Ms PIN. Mr M has given an 
explanation of how this could have happened. Although I accept Mr M didnt tell Sainsburys 
about this initially, I have no reason to disbelieve what Mr M has said.
Looking at all the evidence, and the pattern of withdrawals, I think its more likely than not 
someone other than Mr M made the withdrawals. And I dont believe Mr M allowed someone 
else to make the withdrawals on his behalf.
Because of this, I dont think Sainsburys can fairly hold Mr M liable for the cash machine 
withdrawals, so it follows I think it should refund them.
Although the consumer credit act can allow Sainsburys to hold Mr M liable for the first £35 of 
any unauthorised transaction, this provision isnt in Sainsburys terms and conditions. I dont 
think it would be fair for Sainsburys to hold Mr M liable for the first £35 in these specific 
circumstances.
Putting things right
Sainsburys should refund the £300 withdrawn from the cash machine. Each of these 
withdrawals had an associated cash advance fee, so these also need to be refunded.
And cash off a credit card often attracts immediate interest. Sainsburys should also refund 
any interest associated to the cash machine withdrawals.
Cash withdrawals from a credit card are sometimes recorded on a consumers credit file, if 
this has happened, Sainsburys should also remove this information. And if any adverse 
information has been recorded on Mr Ms credit file, this should also be removed.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and Sainsburys Bank Plc should:
refund £300
refund any cash advance fees associated with the cash machine withdrawals
remove any record of the cash withdrawals from Mr Ms credit file
remove any adverse information regarding these withdrawals from Mr Ms credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman