DRN-2870482
The complaint
Mr H complains about the advice given to him and his late wife by HSBC UK Bank Plc to 
invest in an estate planning bond (EPB) to mitigate their inheritance tax (IHT) liability. Mr H 
says they did not have an IHT liability and he is unable to access the capital because of the 
bond being held in trust.
What happened
Mr H and the late Mrs H received advice from HSBC in April 2009. Mrs H had inherited 
around £650,000 from her mother and sought investment and IHT planning advice. The 
adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs H should invest £500,000 in line with their low 
attitude to risk.
The adviser identified that Mr and Mrs H had an IHT liability of around £180,000. He 
recommended that £300,000 should be invested in an EPB which would be held in trust, and 
so would be outside of their estate for IHT purposes. The bond would pay annual income to 
Mr and Mrs H until they had both passed away but they were not entitled to the remaining 
capital, which was held for the benefit of their daughter. The adviser recommended they 
invest £200,000 in another bond to produce income.
A solicitor made a complaint in August 2009 on behalf of Mr and Mrs H  he said Mrs H 
wanted to retain control over how the capital and income were distributed, which the EPB 
didnt allow. Although HSBC received the complaint, it did not respond.
Mr H explains that Mrs H fell ill shortly afterwards, and so they did not follow the matter up at 
the time. Mrs H passed away several years later.
In 2019 Mr H contacted HSBC to ask for details about the advice given to them in 2009 to 
take out the EPB. However, he didnt receive a response. Mr H made a complaint shortly 
after. HSBC sent a final response in January 2020 apologising for the poor service and 
offering compensation of £500. Mr H followed this up with concerns he had about the advice 
provided. He thought the adviser had made mistakes in the fact-find about their financial 
situation and this had influenced the recommendation, which wasnt suitable.
HSBC provided a further final response in February 2020  it didnt uphold the complaint. It 
thought the advice was suitable and said Mr and Mrs H had an opportunity to correct any 
mistakes the adviser might have made about their financial situation. HSBC said the advice 
was suitable based on the information provided to the adviser.
Mr H remained unhappy and referred the complaint to our service with the help of his 
daughter. Mr H doesnt think he and Mrs H had any IHT liability at the time of the advice. He 
said their home was owned with their daughter and was not worth as much as the adviser 
had recorded on the fact-find  it was also part mortgaged, which hadnt been noted. Mr H 
said the adviser didnt have a good enough understanding of their assets and liabilities to 
determine whether or not they had an IHT liability. Mr H said the funds should not have been 
placed in trust at all. He says he is unable to access the capital, but he needs access to it 
now.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought the adviser was entitled to rely on 
the information recorded in the fact-find and recommendation report. The investigator said a 
copy of this was sent to Mr and Mrs H at the time, so they wouldve had an opportunity to 
correct any mistakes. Based on the information provided, she thought the advice was 
suitable. The investigator thought the £500 offered by HSBC for the poor service was fair.
Mr H asked for a final decision. He maintained that the adviser didnt ask enough questions 
and had got things wrong, which had led to the unsuitable advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first like to say Im sorry to hear about the loss of Mr Hs wife. And Im sorry for any upset 
caused by my reference to the late Mrs H in this decision.
Having considered everything put forward by Mr H and HSBC, Im not upholding the 
complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr H. Ill explain why.
Mr H says that the mistakes made by the adviser in the fact-find shows that he didnt ask 
them for any details about the value of their home, who owned it and whether they had any 
mortgages in place. Mr H says the house was not jointly owned with Mrs H; their daughter 
also owned it and all three of them had taken an interest-only mortgage of around £96,000. 
Mr H also disputes the valuation of £640,000  he says they purchased the house for 
£490,000 two years earlier. Mr H feels this information led the adviser to conclude they had 
an IHT liability when they did not. He says it was this conclusion that led to the funds being 
placed in trust, which wasnt required.
I wasnt present at the meeting, so I have to make a decision based upon what I think is 
most likely to have happened, taking into account Mr and Mrs Hs recollections and the 
documentation produced at the time.
The adviser completed a fact-find, which included details of Mr and Mrs Hs income and 
assets. It also noted their objectives. The adviser recorded that Mrs H had inherited around 
£650,000 following the death of her mother and that Mr and Mrs H wanted to discuss 
investment options to help them mitigate their IHT liability. Based on what Mr H has told us, 
it would appear that the information recorded about the value of Mr and Mrs Hs home was 
inaccurate. And Ive seen evidence that they had a mortgage with their daughter  although 
I havent seen evidence of the sum owed at the time of the advice. I am however, prepared 
to accept what Mr H has told us about the mortgage in place. With this in mind, it seems the 
value of the assets the adviser concluded Mr and Mrs H held may have been inaccurate. 
I dont know why the mortgage details werent recorded or why Mr and Mrs Hs daughters 
interest in the property wasnt noted. Its possible the adviser made an assumption, rather 
than ask direct questions about this  or Mr and Mrs H may have forgotten to mention it. 
I also dont know why the value of the property recorded differed so much from the amount 
Mr H says it was worth at the time  perhaps the property value had increased substantially 
since it had been purchased.
Im not sure whether Mr and Mrs H wouldve seen a copy of the fact-find at the time of the 
advice. It wasnt listed as one of the documents enclosed with the Financial Planning Report 
dated 30 April 2009. However, Im satisfied that they wouldve seen a copy of the Financial 
Planning Report, which I think made it clear that the advisers recommendation was based on the value of their joint assets being £1,300,000. If I were to accept that Mr and Mrs Hs 
home was worth around £500,000 at the time of the advice, and took into account the 
mortgage of around £96,000, their equity in the property would have been two thirds of 
£400,000  around £270,000. The adviser recorded that Mr and Mrs H had gifted their 
daughter £50,000 from the inheritance already, but held £641,200 at the time of the advice 
(taking into account their existing savings) and around £20,000 worth of contents. This 
means the value of their joint assets wouldve been under £1,000,000. This is substantially 
less than £1,300,000. So, I think it ought to have been clear to them that the adviser had 
misunderstood the value of their assets. And I wouldve expected them to have made the 
adviser aware of this at the time as he could only base his recommendation on the 
information provided to him.
Nevertheless, I dont think the difference in the value of the assets ultimately makes much of 
a difference here. The sum that Mrs H inherited alone met the threshold of Mr and Mrs Hs 
combined nil rate IHT bands (£325,000 each). So, even if the adviser had known about the 
mortgage and the three-way ownership of the home, I dont think it was unreasonable for the 
adviser to identify that they would face an IHT liability in the future. If the true value of their 
assets was between £900,000 and £1,000,000 at the time of the advice, Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve had assets worth £250,000 above their combined nil rate IHT band at the very 
least, meaning IHT would be payable on this amount when they both passed away. So, 
overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for the adviser to conclude Mr and Mrs H had an 
IHT liability at the time of the advice.
I have considered whether the advice to invest £300,000 in the EPB was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs Hs needs at the time, bearing in mind what Mr H has said about the problems hes 
facing now.
The fact-find notes that Mr and Mrs H wanted to invest £200,000 over the medium to long 
term to generate extra income following Mr Hs recent retirement. It then said they wanted to 
invest £300,000 into an investment that would help mitigate their IHT. The fact-find stated 
Mr and Mrs H would not require access to this money but would like to take the income 
generated to help meet education costs for their grand-daughter. It said Mr and Mrs H felt 
their remaining funds left on deposit (around £140,000) would be sufficient for emergencies. 
This information was largely repeated in the Financial Planning Report. Although Mr H 
disputes this now, Im satisfied that at the time of the advice Mr and Mrs H did not need 
access to the £300,000 to be invested in the EPB. I think that they believed they had 
sufficient remaining funds held on deposit, together with their ongoing pension income, to 
cover them in case of emergencies. They wouldve also been able to disinvest some (or all) 
of the other £200,000 they invested if further funds were required.
Although it seems Mr and Mrs H wouldve had an IHT liability of around £250,000, as Ive 
said above, I think they had the opportunity to clarify the value of their assets with the 
adviser. That said, I dont think the advice to invest £300,000 in the EPB was unsuitable. 
I think Mr and Mrs H couldve expected the value of their home and their remaining 
investments to increase over the years. So, the advice to invest £300,000 in the EPB 
reduced the value of the assets remaining in their estate and significantly reduced the 
likelihood of their estate having a IHT liability when they both passed away, which was their 
main objective at the time.
I can also see that the adviser provided detailed information about how the EPB worked in 
the Financial Planning Report. This included clear warnings that the income selected at the 
outset could not be changed, and that this income was the only entitlement Mr and Mrs H 
had to the funds under the terms of the trust. The adviser explained the remainder of the 
funds would be held for their chosen beneficiaries. I can see that a copy of the EPBs key features was also provided to Mr and Mrs H at the time of the advice, which provided further 
details about how the EPB worked in practice.
I appreciate that due to Mr Hs changing circumstances, the EPB no longer meets his needs. 
But Im satisfied that at the time of the advice, Mr and Mrs H did not believe they would need 
access to the capital, and only required the income generated, the amount of which they had 
chosen at the outset. Im satisfied that they wanted to ensure as little IHT would be payable 
on their deaths and overall, I think the advisers recommendation met their needs and 
objectives at the time.
Mr H has provided a letter sent by his solicitor in August 2009, in which the solicitor 
questioned the suitability of the advice, saying Mrs H wanted a strong say in how the capital 
and income were distributed. The solicitor said that Mrs Hs intention was to set up a trust to 
provide for her grand-daughter and this couldve been achieved by varying the late Mrs Hs 
mothers will. Ive taken this into account but I am persuaded by the comments in the fact-
find and the Financial Planning Report that Mr and Mrs H did not require access to the 
funds. Im also satisfied that they were provided with enough information to understand how 
the EPB worked and that they would not be able to vary the income or access the capital 
once it had been set up. It isnt my role to establish whether HSBC shouldve recommended 
the course of action suggested by the solicitor. Instead, my role is to establish whether 
HSBCs advice was suitable based on the information provided by Mr and Mrs H and their 
stated objectives. As above, I think the advice was suitable in the circumstances.
Mr H has also complained about the time HSBC took to respond to his initial enquiries. 
HSBC offered Mr H £500 for this and Im satisfied this sum is reasonable in the 
circumstances, taking into account the time taken to respond. If HSBC has not yet paid this 
to Mr H, it should do so now.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. However, Im aware that 
HSBC UK Bank Plc made an offer to pay Mr H £500 compensation. It should pay this sum to 
Mr H if it has not done so already to settle his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman