DRN-2201001
The complaint
Mrs K is complaining about the service she received from Grove & Dean Ltd (t/a 
Performance Direct) when she called to claim on her car insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2019 Mrs K took out a car insurance policy through Grove & Dean  a broker. In 
October 2019 she was involved in an accident where she hit a parked car. She called the 
telephone number her policy documents told her to call to report the claim. The call was 
handled by a claims management company (CMC)  who I shall refer to as C.
C explained to Mrs K that it couldnt handle the claim for her because she was at fault for the 
accident and she says it referred her back to Grove & Dean. She says Grove & Dean then 
transferred her through to the wrong business. She says she contacted Grove & Dean again, 
but she was then told to discuss the claim with her insurer. She didnt think this was right 
because she said her insurance documents suggested Grove & Dean would help with the 
claim.
Mrs K subsequently complained to Grove & Dean, in particular raising the following 
complaint points:
1. Shes unhappy Grove & Dean used another company  C  for her to report the claim 
details. Shes not happy she had to pass her details to a third party to report the claim. 
She also said she spent around two hours on the telephone with C and she says she 
found the matter very distressing;
2. Shes unhappy with the way C handled the telephone call she made to report the claim;
3. She said she wanted to claim for personal injury and expenses she incurred, but she 
said she wasnt able to claim;
4. She thinks the documents Grove & Dean sent werent clear about how to make a claim 
on her legal expenses policy which she says caused a lot of confusion.
Grove & Dean didnt uphold her complaint. It said, as a broker, it wasnt authorised to deal 
with claims, so it appointed C to log all claims on its behalf. And it said C deals with all the 
administration arising from this  including assessing the claim and administering the legal 
expenses policy for non-fault claims. It said that, as Mrs K was at fault for the accident, she 
wasnt able to use her legal expenses policy.
Grove & Dean acknowledged Mrs K said C refused to help her, but it said this was because 
the circumstances of the accident meant there wasnt anyone to claim from for these injuries. 
Grove & Dean acknowledged Mrs K had suffered some distress and inconvenience, which it 
thought was likely to occur in any claim. but it didnt think it had treated her unfairly.
I issued a provisional decision in August 2020 not upholding this complaint and I said the 
following:
I should first state that Im only looking at Grove & Deans actions in this complaint. The 
actions of C and the insurer are being considered in separate complaints. Mrs K has raised a 
number of reasons why shes unhappy with the way Grove & Dean has treated her. Ive 
considered everything shes raised, but Ive not commented on each and every point shes 
raised. Instead Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues. No discourtesy is meant by 
this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Grove & Dean were acting in the capacity as an insurance broker. So its responsibilities 
were limited and were in respect to selling, arranging and administering the contract of 
insurance. Its most important to note that it wasnt its responsibility to handle the claim  that 
was the role of the insurer. It seems the insurer outsourced the initial claim notification 
responsibility to Grove & Dean who in turn required C to handle the initial claim reporting.
I acknowledge Mrs K feels strongly about this situation and that shes found dealing with the 
claim exceptionally distressing. But it doesnt automatically follow that Grove & Dean is 
required to compensate her for this. My role in deciding this case is to look at whether I think 
Grove & Dean acted fairly  taking into account the terms of business and standard industry 
practice.
From speaking to Mrs K, I understand her concerns about Grove & Dean fall within two 
categories:
1. The sale of the insurance policy  in particular the legal expenses policy; and
2. Its outsourcing of the claim notification line to a CMC.
Sale of the policy
Mrs K says Grove & Dean didnt send her hard copies of the insurance policy documents. 
And shes also unhappy it didnt explain what the legal expenses policy covered and how to 
use it. Grove & Dean emailed Mrs K copies of the policy documents when the policy started. 
And this is standard practice. So I cant say it acted unfairly in not sending the policy 
documents in the post.
Ive looked at the wording of the legal expenses policy. And I do think its sufficiently clear on 
what the policy provides. So Im satisfied Grove & Dean took reasonable steps to explain 
what the policy covered.
Administration of the claim
Mrs K is unhappy Grove & Dean outsourced the claims notification to a CMC  C. And she 
says she didnt authorise it to share her details with a third party. She says she spent around 
two hours on the phone to C discussing the claim and she found the whole matter very 
distressing. But its not unusual for companies to outsource the first notification of a claim to 
a CMC as there are some advantages to consumers for having a CMC handle their claim 
instead of their insurer if theyre not at fault for an accident  e.g. not having to pay an 
excess or have their No Claims Discount affected. So, while I can understand Mrs Ks 
unhappiness about what happened, I cant say Grove & Dean acted unfairly. I also cant hold 
it responsible for the actions of C.
Mrs K says she was told she didnt have legal cover. I cant comment on anything C may 
have said to her, but Ive listened to calls she had with Grove & Dean and havent heard it 
say she didnt have any legal cover. During those conversation Grove & Dean explained to 
Mrs K that she did have legal expenses cover, but she wasnt able to use it because she 
was at fault for the accident. I appreciate Mrs K wasnt sure what the policy covered at the 
time, and may have had a confusing conversation with C about this. But I think Grove & 
Dean did later explain why claiming on her legal expenses cover wasnt an option, and so I 
dont think the broker has treated her unfairly in this regard.I can see in December 2019 Mrs K rang to ask for copies of her legal expenses policy 
documents to be sent to her again. But I havent seen anything to show Grove & Dean sent 
this to her. But Im not persuaded shes lost out because she would have still been in the 
same situation as she is now  as she wasnt able to use the policy. Though I accept this 
wouldve been frustrating.
Ive also taken into account Mrs Ks comments that she was unhappy her renewal quote was 
around £2,700. She says her policy lapsed because of the way the claim was handled. But I 
cant hold Grove & Dean responsible for the renewal premium or the way the claim was 
handled, because thats down to the actions of the insurer.
Ultimately, I acknowledge Mrs K feels strongly that shes been given false information 
throughout and been treated badly. But, I dont think Ive seen anything to show that Grove & 
Dean treated her unfairly to the extent it should be required to compensate her. Ultimately, I 
think Mrs K is fundamentally unhappy with the way the claim was handled and thats not 
something Grove & Dean as the insurance broker was responsible for.
Mrs K didnt accept my provisional decision. She said she didnt think Id considered 
anything she provided as she said she couldnt understand how I could not uphold the 
complaint if I had. 
Grove & Dean said it didnt have anything further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that Mrs K feels strongly about what has happened. And I do not dispute that 
shes found this matter very stressful. I assure her that I have taken everything shes told us 
into account when I issued my provisional decision. But Im satisfied my provisional decision 
explains why I havent upheld this complaint. 
While, I appreciate Mrs K has found this matter very distressing, I have to think about 
whether Grove & Dean treated her unfairly. And, as I said in my provisional decision, 
ultimately, I think Mrs K is fundamentally unhappy with the way the claim was handled and 
thats not something Grove & Dean as the insurance broker was responsible for.
Mrs K hasnt provided me with anything else to think about, so I dont see any reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I dont 
uphold this complaint for the same reasons.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman