DRN-3839775
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about the suitability of the advice she received from Zurich Assurance 
Ltd (Zurich) to invest into a Lifestyle Plus Plan. 
Mrs P is being represented by a third party, but for ease of reading, I shall refer to Mrs P in 
my decision. 
What happened
Mrs Ps Lifestyle Plus Plan (LPP) started in May 1999. It was designed to provide critical 
illness and optional life cover protection on a whole of life basis. Mrs P chose both critical 
illness as well as life cover of £100,000. It cost £31.39 per month. There was a review of the 
LPP in 2009 which resulted in a reduction of the sum assured. 
Mrs P has said that at the time of the sale she was a student who worked part time, was 
aged 20 years and was single with no dependants. Mrs P complained to Zurich in November 
2021 following a review of the advice she had been given. 
It didnt uphold her complaint. It said;
That after the reduction of the cover in 2009 it had written to Mrs P each year 
reminding her of the benefits of the product and to check it still met her needs. The 
LPP remained in force and the cover was provided in good faith  if a valid claim had 
been made, the sum assured would have been paid out. 
It said that as the complaint had been brought more than six years after the LPP was 
taken, it was out of time under the rules that apply within which a complaint can be 
made. 
Mrs P brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. She said her priority at the time 
wasnt the plan but to save for either a property or to settle down once she had finished 
studying. She didnt understand the recommendation and Mrs Ps mother had sufficient 
funds to support her children so couldnt understand why it was recorded that Mrs P had 
financial dependants. 
An ombudsman issued a decision that this was a complaint that this service could consider. 
It wasnt time barred under the rules that apply. Our investigator proceeded to consider the 
merits of the complaint and concluded that;
The point of sale documents demonstrated the plan was suitable for Mrs P. 
It was identified that financial protection for Mrs P and her family was her priority.
Mrs P lived with her sister and mother and the fact find recorded she paid for bills 
and food.
Mrs P had savings at the time and the LPP would have provided cover if she couldnt 
work. 
Considering Mrs Ps circumstances at the time and the sale documents, there was 
strong evidence to show Mrs P specifically requested the LPP. She didnt think it had 
been mis-sold. 
Mrs P didnt agree. She said the fact find recorded that she didnt have any financial 
dependants. After her monthly outgoings and the additional cost of the LPP she had less 
than £20 per month. She couldnt see why she would have needed a unit linked whole of life 
plan which she didnt understand or need. 
The investigator added some further reasoning to her comments and maintained the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, I agree with the investigators outcome, and broadly for the same reasons. Ill 
explain why. 
Zurich has been able to provide the fact find document from the time of the sale dated 31 
March 1999. Mrs P was 20 years of age and lived at home with her widowed mother and 
sister. She was a full-time student and part time sales assistant earning £190 per month with 
a monthly expenditure of £140. That monthly expenditure was recorded as being £40 per 
month for domestic bills, car etc and £100 for food and clothing etc. She had around £9,000 
in savings. She had no life assurance or critical illness cover at the time.
Its recorded that Mrs Ps priorities were Protecting family against consequences of death 
and Protecting lifestyle against specific illnesses. In response to the question What 
monthly budget can the client comfortably afford to regularly put aside to meet the financial 
need? its recorded Mrs P could comfortably afford to pay up to £40 per month. 
There is a section in the fact find called FINANCIAL PLANNING PRIORITIES. Mrs P 
wanted a PEP immediately  I assume for her savings. And regular savings where a Future 
interest in a few weeks time was recorded. She was content to live with widowed mother 
and under Protecting lifestyle against specific illnesses that again was a Future interest 
but in a few weeks time.
I note from the RECOMMEDATION document prepared in April 1999 that it says;
During our discussions we identified your priority as being to provide financial 
protection for you and your family. In particular, you wish to provide you and your 
family with a cash sum when
- you die, or
- are diagnosed as having a critical illness.
You have not made any provision in this area. The recommended benefits should be 
sufficient to meet your needs.
Its noted that a Key Feature and Personal Illustration were also provided, and which 
included details of the proposed contributions and benefits. Mrs P doesnt agree that the LPP was suitable for her. She says didnt need it or understand 
it. Clearly it is a long time since the sale, and I cant know what was discussed or what was 
explained to Mrs P. But taking all of the above recorded information into account, and on the 
balance of probabilities, I think its most likely Mrs P did want the protection offered by the 
LPP.
Mrs P has said her priorities at the time were to save for either a property or to settle down 
once she had finished studying. She didnt understand the investment and her mother had 
sufficient funds to support her children in any event. 
However, the information recorded doesnt tally with Mrs Ps recollections. At the time of the 
sale, Mrs P lived with her sister and her widowed mother. Its recorded that Mrs P paid 
towards food and clothing. And information on file shows that Mrs Ps mother didnt work and 
was reliant upon benefits of £50 per week, or £200 per month. 
This suggests to me that part of Mrs Ps income was used to support the family. Her income 
was nearly the same as her mothers and the notes from the time of the sale show she did 
pay towards food and domestic bills. So, I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that the 
family was partly reliant upon Mrs Ps income  which no doubt would have increased when 
she finished her studies  and consequently, it may have been something she wanted to 
protect in the event of her death or her inability to work through specific illnesses.
In bringing her complaint Mrs Ps recollection from the time of the sale is that she wanted to 
save for a property or to settle down. But in the fact find its recorded that Mrs P was content 
to live with her widowed mother which contradicts with her recollection. And I dont think it is 
unreasonable of me to take into consideration what was recorded from the time of the sale 
and bear in mind how long ago this sale was  memories can and do fade over time.
Mrs P has said she didnt understand the investment. But as mentioned above, Mrs P was 
given a Key Features Document and Personal Illustration at the time of the recommendation. 
And the fact that initially in March Mrs P said her interest in life cover and critical illness was 
to be in a few weeks time and which in April at the follow up meeting it was recorded that 
she was interested now suggests to me that this was something Mrs P wanted and had 
already considered over that time. it wasnt something that was thought about and 
recommended solely at one investment meeting. It was something in particular Mrs P 
intended to do. 
The information indicates that Mrs P wasnt an experienced investor and as such would have 
been reliant upon the information and advice she was given by Zurich. Ive thought very 
carefully about this. And in particular bearing in mind Mrs Ps then age and circumstances. 
But taking all of the above recorded contemporaneous evidence into account, and in the 
very particular circumstances of this complaint, I cant agree that the product was unsuitable 
for Mrs Ps identified needs. I think at the time of the sale it was most likely that the product 
was attractive to Mrs P for the reasons I have already given.
Having considered the above overall evidence and in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint, I have not seen sufficient persuasive evidence that the LPP was unsuitable for 
Mrs P taking into consideration her identified needs. So, and in the particular circumstances 
of this complaint, I dont uphold it and wont be asking Zurich to take any action.
I appreciate Mrs P will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope I have been able to 
explain how and why I have reached it. My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman