DRN-3489363
The complaint
Mr E has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) has unfairly turned 
down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr E, alongside his wife, took out two timeshares with the same supplier in May 2004 and 
October 2006. These were paid for by using Mr Es NatWest credit card.
Mr and Mrs E said that the benefits of the timeshares had been misrepresented to them, in 
particular that the maintenance fees went up in price more than expected. So in August 2019 
they made a claim to NatWest under the CCA. As the credit card used was in Mr Es name 
only, he is the person able to bring a claim against NatWest.
NatWest said the claim had been made too late, so it did not need to answer it. Unhappy 
with NatWests position, Mr E brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and agreed that NatWest had fairly 
considered the claim, so they agreed that NatWest did not need to do anything further. Mr E 
did not agree and asked for the matter to be considered again by an ombudsman.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E says that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the memberships to him 
and his wife when they bought them. As he paid for the timeshares using a credit card, he 
could bring a claim against NatWest under s.75 CCA. However, a claim made under the 
CCA is subject to the Limitation Act 1980 (LA), which sets out periods within which legal 
claims must be made. Under section 9 of the LA, Mr E had to make a s.75 CCA claim within 
six years of when he entered into the timeshares  which was in May 2004 and October 
2006  because that is when he says he lost out having relied on false statements of fact. 
Similarly, he had six years to bring any claim for a breach of contract from the date of that 
breach. Mr E says he first realised that the maintenance fees had increased more than 
expected in 2010. If that amounted to a breach of the timeshare agreement (which I am not 
sure it was), he needed to bring a claim within six years of that date.
However, as Mr E first made a claim to NatWest in August 2019, that fell outside of the time 
limits set out in the LA. 
Mr E has said he did not know he could bring a claim against NatWest until 2018, when he 
spoke to lawyers. I have considered the LA in full, but I do not think any of the provisions 
would extend the time to bring a claim in these circumstances. 
Mr Es claim is about what went wrong with the ongoing contracts entered into in 2004 and 
2006 that were paid for using his credit card. Although the same card was used to pay 
maintenance fees in subsequent years, those payments were not going toward the payment 
of the original contract sum. So I do not think the limitation period was extended because the 
same credit card was used to pay maintenance fees to the timeshare provider later.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold Mr Es complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman