DRN-4442848
The complaint
Mrs L complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc didnt capitalise her mortgage arrears. 
She asks that it capitalises arrears and offers an affordable repayment plan and decent 
compensation.
What happened
RBS said it would capitalise Mrs Ls arrears if she made payments for six months. This didnt 
happen due to an error with RBSs systems. Mrs L made a complaint in mid-2022. In 
response, RBS said it would capitalise Mrs Ls arrears and set out the steps shed need to 
follow. It also offered compensation.
Mrs L raised a further complaint in early 2023, that RBS hadnt capitalised the arrears or 
paid the compensation and it had given her inaccurate information. 
An ombudsman issued a decision saying that we could only look into the complaint Mrs L 
raised in early 2023. She said Mrs Ls previous complaint had been brought to us more than 
six months after RBS issued its final response and was therefore brought to us outside our 
time limits.
Our investigator said there was no evidence that Mrs L had contacted RBS after August 
2022 about capitalising the arrears, or that shed returned the completed paperwork. He said 
RBS had now paid the compensation. Our investigator said as there were no payments into 
the account after November 2022 it wasnt unreasonable for RBS to start recovery action.
Mrs L said RBS denied her access to her online account and refused to speak to her after 
November 2022. This meant she couldnt check what was happening with her account. 
Mrs L said she returned the completed paperwork and most likely RBS lost it. She said she 
told RBS she wouldnt make payments until the arrears were capitalised and didnt consider 
it right to start action for possession after two missed payments. Mrs L said the investigator 
hadnt addressed her complaints about poor service. She said she was selling the property. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. I can assure 
Mrs L that I have read and carefully considered the information and evidence shes provided.
Capitalisation of arrears
RBS issued a final response letter (FRL) in August 2022. RBS said it would capitalise 
Mrs Ls arrears. It said she would need to contact its financial assistance team to discuss the 
contractual monthly payments after this and the next steps. It said Mrs L should make 
payments when due as any late payments could compromise the capitalisation. RBS put a 
30 day hold on recovery action, to give Mrs L time to contact it.
RBSs records say it tried to contact Mrs L in mid-October 2022 without success. It says it 
received no contact from Mrs L until early November 2022  this was after it issued a notice 
of possession proceedings. RBSs notes support this. Mrs L hasnt provided evidence that 
she did try to contact RBS  such as phone records.
Following the contact in early November 2022 RBS sent paperwork to Mrs L for her to 
complete and return for the capitalisation process. Mrs L says she completed and posted the 
paperwork. RBS said it didnt receive the completed paperwork. Mrs L said RBS might have 
lost the paperwork. While I agree thats possible, theres no evidence thats the case. 
Mrs L said she wasnt asked for evidence shed returned the paperwork  such as proof of 
postage. Mrs L has had ample opportunity to provide such evidence to us, if she has it. 
Mrs L withheld the payment due in December 2022. Im not sure why if shed do this if shed 
returned the necessary paperwork and thought the capitalisation was going ahead.
RBS says it sent chasers by text and email in December 2022. Its unfortunate if Mrs L didnt 
receive the chasers, which might have alerted her to the paperwork not having been 
received. Its also unfortunate that the completed paperwork wasnt received by RBS. But I 
cant fairly find that this was due to an error by RBS without evidence this was the case. 
Based on the available evidence, I cant fairly find that RBS made an error or acted unfairly 
when it didnt capitalise Mrs Ls arrears in late 2022. 
Action for possession
When Mrs L spoke to the recoveries team she was told the account would be put on hold 
which would cancel the notice of possession proceedings. RBS says there was an inference 
that the notice was issued incorrectly. It says this wasnt the case. The notice was issued 
because of the arrears and Mrs Ls failure to make contact to continue with the capitalisation. 
RBS said the hold wasnt indefinite and as it didnt receive the completed paperwork from 
Mrs L and she didnt contact it further about the capitalisation it instructed solicitors. Mrs L 
says she refused to make payments after receiving the notice of possession proceedings. 
But, whatever her reasons, there were already arrears on the account and Mrs L failed to 
make monthly payments after November 2022. Her arrears increased and she no longer met 
criteria for capitalisation. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for RBS to take 
recovery action.Payment of compensation
RBS sent a cheque to Mrs L for £250, being the £150 offered in August 2022 and another 
£100 for the trouble and upset caused. I think, in the circumstances, this was fair and 
reasonable.
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require RBS to take further steps 
regarding Mrs Ls mortgage account or pay further compensation.
Mrs L says she didnt cash the cheque and has no intention of doing so. Its possible the 
cheque has expired. For completeness, we checked with RBS and it said it would need to 
check that the compensation hasnt been paid, but subject to this could arrange to pay the 
compensation. I leave it to Mrs L to decide if she wants to accept the compensation, and if 
thats the case and the cheque has expired, contact RBS.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Thats because I think the compensation 
offered by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman