DRN-2256849
The complaint
Mr L and Mrs L have complained about what The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) has 
done to put things right following a complaint that it mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2014, Mrs L complained that RBS mis-sold a PPI policy alongside a loan that began in 
July 2002.
RBS investigated the complaint and thought it should be upheld. It worked out the 
compensation would be £6,601.25.
But Mr and Mrs L had previously been in a protected trust deed. This is a less formal 
alternative to bankruptcy (or sequestration) in Scotland. RBS says that when Mr and Mrs L 
entered the trust deed, they owed RBS £26,488.37  and although it received a dividend of 
£1,508.12, this still left £24,980.25 that Mr and Mrs L didnt repay. So RBS proposed to pay 
the compensation for mis-selling PPI towards that amount.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 July 2021. I explained that based on 
what Id see, what RBS had done was fair.
I said Id considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and that Id taken into account the 
relevant law and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law was Scots law. I noted that Royal Bank of Scotland plc v 
Donnelly [2019] CSIH 56, the Inner House of the Court of Session found that once a debtor 
had been discharged from a trust deed, the business couldnt use the consumers PPI 
compensation to reduce or repay any outstanding balance. But it is possible for that 
discharge to be set aside  in Royal Bank of Scotland plc v Donnelly [2020] CSOH 106, the 
trustee had decided to pay a final dividend and discharged the debtor in ignorance of the 
debtors PPI claim. The court thought that if the trustee had known of the PPI claim, she 
would have pursued it for the benefit of the creditors  it was inconceivable that she wouldnt 
have done. Because of the substantial error in the grant of the discharge, the court said it 
could, in principle, be set aside (reduced) to allow the bank to take the PPI compensation 
into account as part of the trust deed. That said, reduction is a discretionary remedy, and the 
court, in the particular circumstances of that case, concluded that it would be unjust and 
inconvenient to do so. That included factors such as the time the debtor had been chased by 
RBS through the courts.
I also considered our rules. My power to make awards is set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys handbook at DISP 3.7. This says that a money award is such amount as the 
Ombudsman considers to be fair compensation [] whether or not a court would award 
compensation.
Having thought about all of this, I recognised that it was possible a court might tell RBS to 
pay Mr and Mrs L the compensation. But it would also be open to RBS to seek to set aside 
the discharge of Mr and Mrs Ls trust deed. I was also satisfied that, although I must take the 
law into account, my decision is based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of the complaint, and that any award I make would be such amount as I 
consider fair, whether or not a court would award compensation.
In this case, RBS said that Mr and Mrs L owed £26,488.37 when they entered the trust deed. 
It had received a dividend of just £1,508,12. This meant there was £24,980.25 left that, 
thanks to the trust deed, Mr and Mrs L didnt have to repay. The successful completion of the 
trust deed meant that RBS couldnt now pursue Mr and Mrs L for the money. I noted that Mr 
and Mrs L had other PPI complaints with RBS  and RBS has paid a further £8,908.60 
towards the amount they didnt repay. Which leaves £16,071.65.
But RBS has now worked out that the compensation for mis-selling PPI would be £6,601.25. 
This is a lot less than the amount Mr and Mrs L didnt have to repay following the trust deed.
I didnt think it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mr and Mrs L the £6,601.25 directly, given 
they didnt have to repay a much greater sum following the trust deed.
Where I decide, or a business agrees that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, I expect the business to put the consumer in the financial position theyd be in if they 
hadnt bought the policy.
If RBS hadnt sold Mr and Mrs L this policy, I thought theyd still have entered the trust deed 
 the PPI was only a part of what they borrowed. But theyd have owed less. And thats the 
position RBSs offer puts them in.
And had the trustee pursued these claims while Mr and Mrs L were still in the trust deed, 
then RBS would have been able to offset the compensation as part of the arrangement. Or it 
might have been paid to the trustee for the benefit of the other creditors. It would not have 
been paid to Mr and Mrs L directly.
Id considered Mr and Mrs Ls other comments. Mr L said that letting RBS offset the 
compensation in this way was unfair to his other creditors. In essence, because RBS didnt 
offset the PPI compensation as part of the trust deed, it may have received dividends that it 
wouldnt have received had it claimed for the lesser amount (as these would have been paid 
to Mr and Mrs Ls other creditors instead).
But I wasnt persuaded this meant it would be fair to pay this money to Mr and Mrs L directly. 
I didnt doubt that if RBS had claimed less in the trust deed it might have meant that more 
was paid to Mr and Mrs Ls other creditors. But I wasnt concerned here with the respective 
position of Mr and Mrs Ls other creditors  I was looking at fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about the sale of PPI. That meant focussing on the financial 
position Mr and Mrs L would be in if they hadnt bought the PPI.
Mr L was also concerned that the other decisions hes seen on our website all reach the 
same conclusion. I explained that I consider every complaint based on the individual 
circumstances of that complaint  and I hadnt seen anything, in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint that persuaded me it would be fair to make RBS pay them this 
money directly.
I said Id consider any further comments I received by 13 August 2021.RBS confirmed it had received my provisional decision. It has nothing further for me to 
consider. Mr L and Mrs L havent sent me anything further to consider.
Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr and Mrs L nor RBS have sent me anything further to consider. I reach the same 
conclusions as my provisional decision for the same reasons. I think it was fair for the RBS 
to use the compensation to reduce the amount Mr and Mrs L didnt need to repay following 
the trust deed.
My final decision
For the reasons above, it was fair for Royal Bank of Scotland plc to use the compensation 
for mis-selling PPI to reduce the amount Mr and Mrs L didnt need to repay following the 
trust deed. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman