DRN-3252331
The complaint
Company I complains that Wise Payments Limited closed its account without notice and 
hasnt returned the money left in it back to company I.
What happened
Company I opened an account with Wise in June 2020. In July 2020, company I received 
around $120,400.00 into its account. Company I attempted to transfer this money out to its 
directors personal account in three different transactions. Wise blocked the transactions and 
closed company Is account on 8 July 2020. The money remained in company Is account.
Wise told company I they were carrying out due diligence checks on the money left in the 
account. In December 2021, Wise returned the money left in the account to the original 
source.
Company I complained to our service. Our investigator thought Wise had acted fairly. He 
said Wise were entitled to restrict the account and transactions and closed it in line with the 
terms and conditions. Our investigator was also satisfied that Wise hadnt done anything 
wrong when returning the money to source.
Company I didnt agree. In summary it said;
one year and five months to carry out due diligence checks on the money was too 
long; 
Wise didnt explain any restrictions when it opened the account, provided debit cards, 
and offered other accounts; 
Company Is director thinks Wise concluded that an account for company I and a 
personal account for him as a director was considered a duplicate account;
Wise hadnt considered the impact of Covid-19 and should have waited for our 
service to decide before returning the money to source;
the situation had a big impact on Company Is family  especially his children.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will come as a great disappointment to company I. But I dont think Wise need to 
do anything differently. Ive explained why below.
Firstly, its important to point out that Im only considering company Is account as part of this 
complaint. Im aware company Is director has concerns over his personal account  and 
accounts for his family members. I wont be commenting on those in my decision.
As the investigator has explained, Wise has important legal and regulatory obligations it 
must meet when providing accounts to customers. The obligations are ongoing and do not 
only apply to when an account is opened. Company I received a large amount of money into 
its account and therefore I find it reasonable that Wise reviewed things. I appreciate it may 
have been inconvenient for company I to learn it couldnt transfer the payment out to its 
directors personal account like it had hoped, but I cant say Wise treated company I unfairly 
when blocking the transactions. 
Shortly afterwards, Wise made the decision to close company Is account immediately, 
without notice. They didnt give company I a reason for this  or explain why they blocked 
the transactions. I understand company I think Wise should have given a reason  or notice 
 before they closed its account. I cant fairly agree. 
Wise can choose to end relationships with customers. This can be due to a number of 
reasons and theyre not obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same as if 
company I decided to end the agreement with Wise  it wouldnt have to explain why. Im 
also satisfied Wise complied with the terms and conditions of the account when closing it. 
And Im pleased to see they referred to the specific terms (sections 25.2 and 25.3) they 
relied on. This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial decision  especially 
in instances where we find the appropriate decision has been reached. 
I appreciate company I thinks Wise made unfair decisions by allowing it to open extra 
accounts and issuing debit cards. And it also thinks it considered the company account and 
a personal account as a duplicate. Ive thought carefully about company Is points here, but I 
cant fairly agree. Ive seen no evidence that Wise has made an unfair decision when closing 
company Is account. I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in 
confidence. We may treat evidence from financial businesses as confidential for a number of 
reasons  for example, if it contains information about other customers, security information 
or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Wise has provided is 
information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means that while I cant 
share the full reasons with company I, Id like to reassure it, that Im satisfied Wises actions 
were appropriate in the circumstances. 
In December 2021, Wise returned the funds which were left in company Is account to the 
original source. I recognise there was a lengthy time from when Wise decided to close the 
account in July 2020, to when they sent the money back. Company Is director has explained 
the impact this had on him as an individual and his family  and company Is developments. 
Firstly, I cant consider any impact to the director  because the director is a separate legal 
entity to company I. And in the circumstances of this complaint, company I is Wises 
customer. So, while Im sorry to hear of the difficulties faced, it wouldnt be appropriate for 
me to comment on them.
Ive also seen no evidence to satisfy me that company I was entitled to the money it received 
in its account. It has explained in its submissions that the contract for which it received the 
money in question, is highly confidential and it cant disclose anything. Because of that, I 
cant fairly agree that Wise have acted inappropriately by returning the money to where it 
came from. I recognise it took a long period of time for Wise to return the money  but I dont 
agree this time had an impact on company I, because Ive seen nothing to suggest the 
money ever rightfully belonged to it.
Overall, Im satisfied Wise were entitled to block, review and close company Is account. 
Theyre not obliged to tell company I why  or in the circumstances of this complaint, give 
any notice. And while I recognise the time it took for Wise to send the money back to the 
original source, as I havent seen any evidence to satisfy me that company I was ever 
entitled to the money, I cant fairly agree this impacted it. So, it follows that I wont be asking 
Wise to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman