DRN-2213791
The complaint
Miss H complains that a car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services (BMWFS), wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
At the end of May 2019 Miss H acquired a used car via a four-year hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. She part-exchanged her current car as part of the deal. The car 
Miss H acquired was around two and half years old and had a mileage of 23,000.
Within a few days of taking possession of the car the engine management light 
illuminated and Miss H returned the car to the dealership. Miss H says when she took 
the car into the garage, she was told it would be ready the next day. The dealership 
provided her with a courtesy car.
The dealership had to order a part for the car and so the repairs took around a week to be 
completed. Miss H says that she decided that she wanted to reject the car and contacted 
the dealership. Miss H says she was told by the garage that she had to collect the car as it 
was now repaired and if she didnt it would be parked in the street. Miss H collected the 
car.
Before collecting the car, Miss H contacted BMWFS and informed it she wanted to reject 
the vehicle. She also complained that a separate personal loan for £1,000, of which she 
said she knew nothing, had been taken out in her name to cover the negative equity that 
had arisen on her original cars agreement. She said she didnt know anything about there 
being a shortfall as the dealership had said they would deal with it.
BMWFS told Miss H that it would investigate her complaint. It then informed Miss H that 
the rejection had been agreed and it was waiting for the funds to settle the agreement. 
However, about one month later when Miss H called again, BMWFS said this information 
was incorrect and her rejection of the car hadnt been agreed. BMWFS then issued its final 
response letter informing Miss H that it wasnt upholding her complaint. It said the 
dealership had been unaware Miss H wanted to reject the car before she had agreed to 
having it repaired. It said the car was now fixed.
Miss H was unhappy at BMWFS response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator recommended that Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. He said that under 
the Consumer Rights Act 2015 a consumer had a right to reject a car within the first 30 
days if it was of unsatisfactory quality.
Our investigator said that, although he appreciated the repairs may have been carried out 
before Miss H had told either BWMFS or the dealership that she wanted to reject the car, 
he didnt think the car should have had an issue so soon after the point of sale. He said 
he didnt think the car had been of satisfactory quality. He also said that he hadnt seen 
any evidence Miss H had been notified of her rights to reject or repair, and that she 
should have been notified of her consumer rights.
Our investigator said that Miss H had asserted her short term right to reject the car in the 
first 30 days after the point of sale and, considering the relevant law, it was fair for her to 
reject the car and for the agreement to be cancelled.
Our investigator said that he thought Miss H had suffered unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience after being told that she was able to reject the car, and then later being 
told this was an error. She had also had to make numerous calls chasing up her 
complaint. He said he thought £150 compensation would be fair.
In respect of the personal loan for the negative equity on the agreement for the car Miss H 
had used as part exchange, our investigator said this had been taken out at the same time 
as the hire purchase agreement. It had been electronically signed as had the hire 
purchase agreement. He said he didnt have any evidence that Miss H had been unaware 
of this agreement.
BMWFS didnt agree with our investigators view. It said that the dealership wasnt under 
any obligation to provide Miss H with her consumer rights. It said she had agreed to the 
repairs before seeking to reject the car and, under section 23(6) of the Consumer Rights 
Act 2015, if the consumer agreed to a repair then they couldnt then seek to exercise their 
right to short- term rejection of the goods.
As the parties couldnt agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Looking at this complaint I needed to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, but 
Im not bound by them when I consider whats fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss H was a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service was able to consider complaints relating to it. BMWFS was also 
the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 theres an implied  term  that when goods are 
supplied "the quality of the goods is satisfactory". The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here  the car wasnt  brand  new and so wouldnt  be judged  by the same  standard  as a 
new one, but Id seen  that engine  management  light illuminated  within  a very short  time 
of Miss  H acquiring  it. I accepted  that a reasonable  person  wouldnt  expect  the car to 
have  developed  a fault within  such  a short  period  of time.
The fault with the car was related  to an oxygen  sensor  and Id seen  that this particular  
issue  didnt  impact  on the running  of the car, and the car hadnt  broken  down.  Id also 
seen  that it was noted  on the repair  invoice  that Miss  H had reported  the car is 
driving  great . I thought  it was fair to say this was a minor  fault and, although  it had 
required  a part being  ordered,  was relatively  simple  to fix.Miss  H also didnt  appear  to have  raised  a wish to reject  the car at the time she took the 
car back  to the dealership  for the EML  issue  to be investigated.  And I wasnt  surprised  
the dealership  hadnt  raised  a possible  right to reject  the car with Miss  H when  she 
took it in as it would  need  to investigate  the problem  and ascertain  its cause  first. Used  
cars can have  issues  with wear  and tear. And,  from the evidence  Id seen,  I thought  it 
was more  likely  that Miss  H wanted  to reject  the car because  of the length  of time it 
appeared  to be taking  to repair  it, which  led her to worry  the car had a serious  fault.  I 
didnt  think  shed  exercised  her short  term right to reject  the car.
So, considering  the nature  of the fault,  and that Miss  H hadnt  raised  a wish to reject  the 
car when  she returned  it to the dealership  for repairs,  I thought  it would  be unfair  and 
disproportionate  for her now to reject  it. I understood  the car had been  successfully  
repaired.
However,  I thought  Miss  H being  informed  by BWMFS  that it had been  agreed  she 
could  reject  the car, and then being  told she couldnt  would  have  caused  her 
unnecessary  distress  and inconvenience.  This mistake  wasnt  rectified  until Miss  H 
chased  up what  was happening  with her complaint  and that was some  time later.  I 
thought  £150  compensation  for this and having  to take the car back  for repairs  within  a 
few days  was fair and reasonable.
Miss  H had raised  a complaint  that she was unaware  of a personal  loan being  taken  out in 
her name  for the negative  equity  that had arisen  from the car she used  as a part 
exchange.  However,  Id seen  this agreement  was taken  out at the same  time as the hire 
purchase  agreement,  and both documents  were  signed  electronically.  While  I didnt  know  
what  was said by the dealership  to Miss  H about  the value  of the part exchanged  car it 
seemed  unlikely  it would  agree  to clear  the outstanding  amount  as it was around  
£1,000.  I didnt  have  enough  evidence  to say the dealership  acted  on its own accord  in 
setting  up this agreement  as implied  by Miss  H. I thought  it was more  likely  than not that 
she was aware  of the separate  loan and signed  the relevant  paperwork.
For the reasons  given  above  I intended  to partially  uphold  Miss  Hs complaint  and 
asked  BMWFS  to pay her £150  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused  by having  to take the car back  for a repair  and being  incorrectly  informed  she 
could  reject  he car. However,  I didnt  think  it would  be fair and reasonable  for Miss  H 
to reject  the car, and I didnt  intend  to ask BMWFS  to cancel  the agreement  and 
collect  the car from her.
Miss  H says  she doesnt  have  any comments  she wants  to make  about  my 
provisional  decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Miss H nor BMWFS have asked me to look again at any parts of my provisional 
decision. I have reviewed the evidence and my findings but I havent changed my mind.
For the reasons given above Im partially upholding Miss Hs complaint.Putting things right
Im asking BMWFS to pay Miss H £150 for the distress and inconvenience of having to deal 
with the fault with the car and also later being told she could reject it when that was incorrect.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im partially upholding Miss Hs complaint. Im asking BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services to pay Miss H £150 
as compensation for the distress and inconvenience of dealing with the cars fault and for 
being given wrong information about her right to reject it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman