DRN-4238833
The complaint
Mr J complains that Huddle Capital Limited (Huddle), an appointed representative (AR) of 
rebuildingsociety.com Ltd (ReBS), arranged an investment via an Innovative Finance 
Individual Savings Account (IF ISA). Mr J has lost money on the investment and thinks that 
ReBS is responsible for his loss. He also says that Huddle failed to set up an online platform 
for the investment as it was supposed to do.
What happened
Mr J brought this complaint to us jointly with his wife  Mrs J. However, they each made 
separate investments that are being complained about and so I will deal with Mr Js 
complaint separately to Mrs Js. This decision looks only at Mr Js complaint  although the 
factual circumstances overlap and so Mrs J is also mentioned in this decision. 
During 2018, Mr J and Mrs J spoke with an adviser, Mr W. The say they dont know whether 
Mr W was working for Huddle, or independently. They say they were advised to transfer their 
existing ISAs (which were held with high street banks) to a Huddle IF ISA. They say they 
were told that the Huddle IF ISA had a five-year fixed term and that they would receive a 
return of 7% per year. Mr J and Mrs J were also told theyd receive log-in details to view their 
investments on an online platform.
In around March 2018, Mr J applied to transfer around £15,000 from his existing ISA to a 
Huddle IF ISA. Mrs J also made an application for around £5,000. We dont know the precise 
date, but it appears that the funds were transferred to the Huddle IF ISA and then invested 
into a bond/loan with CGrowth Capital Bonds Limited (CGrowth) a short time later. 
In June 2018, someone at Huddle - Mr C - contacted Mr J and Mrs J by email to tell them 
that the loans with CGrowth were complete. But Mr J queried the investment amounts:
Please be advised that my initial investment is £15291.41p and not £9291.41p as 
stated
Can you please amend the notification with immediate effect and also provide the 
investment login details required for me to access my account online, to keep an eye 
on how my investment is performing, as per our conversation.
Mr C replied:
As discussed, I have checked the details you have provided me with and confirm that 
the documentation sent to you at [.] was incorrect.
Please disregard those emails and the associated loan agreements.
Attached now are the correct loan agreements confirming investments into Cgrowth 
as follows:
1. [Mr J] - £15,291.41; and
2. [Mrs J] - £5,000.
Would you be available tomorrow around lunch time, as I would like to talk you 
through the platform sign up at https://huddlecapital.com/ - it is better if you 
personally sign up. As we have already carried out our on-line ID and AML checks, I 
will be able to approve and open the platform accounts immediately. As discussed, 
there has been a technical glitch with the platform and we are in the process of 
getting the Cgrowth loan loaded up, this is still a few days away, but once your 
account is open I will explain how it all works and then when the loan is uploaded, we 
can immediately link your investment. If some other time is better tomorrow, please 
let me know and I will do what I can to accommodate.
Despite ongoing correspondence with Mr C, Mr J and Mrs J didnt receive log-in details or 
further communication. And they said they also later (in around 2020) became concerned 
because they learned that their investments had been made into peer-to-peer lending  
they say they werent told about this before. 
It now looks like the CGrowth investment has failed completely. 
Mr J and Mrs J referred a complaint to our service about ReBS, as Huddles principal. They 
effectively said that the Huddle IF ISAs had been mis-sold to them and that Huddle hadnt 
set things up as promised and had provided poor service and communication. They wanted 
a refund of the full amounts theyd transferred to the Huddle IF ISAs.
ReBS said it wasnt responsible for Mr J and Mrs Js losses. Briefly, it said that it (and 
therefore Huddle) was regulated to operate an electronic lending platform  effectively a 
peer-to-peer platform for lending. But Mr J and Mrs J hadnt been registered on the Huddle 
peer-to-peer platform that Huddle was authorised to operate. It said that it was aware that for 
a short while, outside of operating a peer-to-peer lending platform, Huddle had sold 
unregulated mini-bonds such as the CGrowth loans. ReBS said it hadnt issued or approved 
the promotion of these bonds and so it wasnt responsible for Mr J and Mrs Js complaints.
Our investigator didnt think we had jurisdiction to consider the complaint against ReBS. He 
felt that Huddle had been carrying out a regulated activity when it made arrangements to 
transfer Mr J and Mrs Js existing ISAs to the IF ISAs. But he didnt think ReBS was 
responsible for Huddles actions. Thats because he noted that the AR agreement between 
ReBS and Huddle didnt authorise Huddle to give investment advice or arrange investments. 
He didnt think that there was any other basis to hold ReBS responsible for the investment 
losses.  
Mr J and Mrs J disagreed. They felt that Huddle had been acting with ReBS authority. And 
in its communications with Mr J and Mrs J, ReBS had referred to itself as Huddles principal 
 it hadnt referred to any limitations on Huddles activities. 
Mr Js complaint was then passed to me to consider. I issued a provisional decision 
explaining why I thought that ReBS was responsible for a regulated activities conducted by 
Huddle in connection with its electronic lending platform  but not anything relating to the 
investment in CGrowth or the IF ISA. I said that Huddle had provided poor service in relation 
to the platform and so ReBS (as Huddles principal) should pay Mr J some compensation for 
the distress caused to him by this.  
Mr J (via a representative) responded to ask that I clarify and confirm that he did not know 
that Huddle was engaged in peer-to-peer lending until recently. Mr J also said:The full scope of advice received regarding this 'fixed 5-year ISA at 7%' and the 
details regarding log ins and customer rights to view their money etc was advised by 
[Mr C] at Huddle Capital. [Mr J] spoke to [Mr C] several times over a period prior to 
transferring the money across and was given advice and assurances by [Mr C] - at 
no time during such contact was [Mr/Mrs J] made aware that the money was to be 
used for any 'peer to peer' lending and they had no knowledge in 2018 that Huddle 
Capital had a peer to peer lending business. Mr W introduced [Mr & Mrs J] to [Mr C] 
at Huddle but the advice and information given to incite the investment was 
conducted by Huddle.
ReBS didint agree with my decision. It said that the one thing I had said they were 
responsible for  poor service in relation to the electronic platform - was not a regulated 
activity. It also said that it had only accepted responsibility for Huddles acts in relation to 
approved financial promotions  and this complaint did not involve any approved promotions. 
It said it had sympathy for Mr J  but it wasnt responsible for what had happened in respect 
of his investment.
Why I can look into this complaint
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, I am of the view that 
we do have the power to consider the merits of some aspects of this complaint. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a 
complaint, we need to check, by reference to the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) 
Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at. 
DISP 2.3.1R says we can: 
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at 2.3.3G says that: 
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible (including business of any appointed representative or agent for 
which the firmhas accepted responsibility). 
And Section 39(3) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) says: 
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
So, taking the above into account, to decide whether ReBS is responsible here, there are 
three issues I need to consider: 
What are the acts Mr J has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities? 
Did ReBS accept responsibility for those acts? 
What are the specific acts Mr J has complained about? Mr J effectively says he was mis-sold the Huddle IF ISA, that the online platform that he was 
promised wasnt set up and that he wasnt told his money would be invested in in a peer-to-
peer lending arrangement. He also complains about poor customer service.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities? 
Regulated activities are those activities that are specified in Part II of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO). The only activities that I 
think could possibly be relevant to this complaint are:
Advising on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment which is a security 
or a relevant investment (Article 53 RAO). 
Making arrangements for another person to buy or sell or subscribe for a security or 
relevant investment (Article 25 RAO).
Operating an electronic system in relation to lending (Article 36H RAO).
CGrowth is likely to be the kind of investment that is capable of giving rise to a regulated 
activity under the RAO. Mr J has said he and Mrs J only met with Mr W. I think its likely that 
Mr W promoted the investment, gave advice to Mr J and Mrs J and made arrangements for 
the investment  as theyve referred to being advised by Mr W about investing in a 7% 
annual return, five year arrangement. That matches with the CGrowth prospectus that Ive 
seen. 
The email from Mr C at Huddle  in which he attaches completed loan documentation -
suggests that Huddle may also have arranged elements of the CGrowth investment.
Overall, I think regulated activities under Articles 25 and 53 RAO took place in connection 
with the CGrowth investment. 
We dont have a lot of evidence about the IF ISA. It appears that Mr W provided Mr J and 
Mrs J with forms for the IF ISA. And I note that the application forms suggest that the IF ISA 
was one managed not by Huddles principal - ReBS  but a separate business called 
Access. Overall, I think its probable that Mr W gave advice and made arrangements for the 
IF ISA. 
Mr J says that Mr C of Huddle gave advice about the IF ISA. This cant be verified by 
reference to other evidence. But Huddle was likely involved in setting it up as its name 
appears on the paperwork. 
But an IF ISA isnt a security or relevant investment under the RAO. So giving advice or 
making arrangements for the IF ISA in isolation wouldnt be a regulated activity under 
Articles 25 and 53 RAO. Nonetheless, I think any activities in relation to the IF ISA were 
ancillary to the regulated activities undertaken in connection with the CGrowth investment.  
The two things went together  the CGrowth investment was likely made via or facilitated 
through the IF ISA.
I am also satisfied that the regulated activity under Article 36H - operating an electronic 
system in relation to lending - took place. We have been provided with an email chain from 
June 2018 in which Mr C at Huddle reassures Mr J that the platform sign up process was 
being progressed and that both Mr J and Mrs Js loan in CGrowth would be loaded up. As 
set out above, Mr C wrote:Would you be available tomorrow around lunch time, as I would like to talk you 
through the platform sign up at https://huddlecapiltal.com/ - it is better if you 
personally sign up. As we have already carried out our on-line ID and AML checks, I 
will be able to approve and open the platform accounts immediately. As discussed, 
there has been a technical glitch with the platform and we are in the process of 
getting the Cgrowth loan loaded up, this is still a few days away, but once your 
account is open I will explain how it all works
To give more context to this, its helpful to set out some detail about Huddles business 
model. ReBS website says of Huddle:
The Huddle Capital team were looking for a quick way to get their peer-to-peer 
lending platform to market, aware that the direct FCA authorisation would be a 
lengthy and arduous process. They wanted to launch their platform as soon as 
possible, so they came to us to shortcut the process and reduce the internal 
compliance workload.
The Huddle team wanted to fulfil their vision, growing their loan book and securing a 
position within the UKs peer-to-business lending market, with a focus on small- to 
medium-sized local businesses. Their authorisation as an AR allows them to keep 
their costs down by providing access to an experienced compliance team. By 
becoming an AR, Huddle, as a new entrant in the market, has been able to step into 
an increasingly competitive market quickly, without engaging valuable time and 
resources in a lengthy authorisation process. They do so under the guidance and 
permissions of an existing firm who has invested considerable time, resources and 
energy to achieve FCA authorisation.
Application & Onboarding
At the beginning of the process, Appointed Representatives are required to submit a 
detailed application form. This is reviewed by our team, and detailed background, 
competency and feasibility checks are carried out, not only for the company, but also 
its directors and key staff. The rebuildingsociety.com board then decides whether or 
not to onboard the prospective AR.
Following the confirmation that Huddle was approved by rebuildingsociety.com, the 
thorough, in-depth onboarding process began. This had to be completed before 
Huddle was allowed to launch. The two companies worked together closely to put in 
place the systems and processes necessary to a run a peer-to-business platform, 
and Huddles directors and staff were taken through a detailed training course on 
P2P and P2B regulation.
The rebuildingsociety.com team then reviewed Huddles operational systems, 
technology and competency, before completing the final sign off. This is a 
requirement before the AR can begin onboarding clients and trading.
The rebuildingsociety.com worked hard to make sure that the necessary systems 
and processes were in place ahead of the launch, and that the Huddle team 
understood their responsibilities. 

Up & RunningThe onboarding and setup of the Appointed Representatives site is just the 
beginning of the AR-Principal relationship. Since the launch of the platform, the 
rebuildingsociety.com and Huddle teams have been in contact daily, ensuring that 
key processes, such as the management of client money and client communications, 
are handled correctly and in line with regulations.
Each month, Huddle produces a report for rebuildingsociety.com. We are obliged to 
report back to the FCA on the progress of all our ARs, a responsibility that is taken 
very seriously by the whole team.
Onwards & Upwards
The Huddle site is now live, attracting borrowers and lenders and encouraging them 
to come together to make asset backed transactions happen.
Following a period of bedding in and growth, Huddle will consider applying for their 
full authorisation from the FCA. In the meantime, we will continue to be their Network 
Principal, answering questions, resolving queries and ensuring that they comply with 
all relevant rules and regulations.
About Huddle Capital
Huddle Capital is a brand new, Leeds-based peer-to-business lending platform, born 
from existing finance business, Access Commercial Finance. The team behind the 
new company includes entrepreneurs, solicitors and financial experts and 
professionals.
Taking this into account, I dont think there can be any serious doubt that what Huddle was 
offering to Mr J and Mrs J is the operation of a peer-to-peer arrangement via an electronic 
system (or platform as it was described to Mr J and Mrs J) for lending. And it appears that 
the lending was to be the loan investment that had already been made  presumably via the 
IF ISA managed by Access - from each of them (as individual lenders) to CGrowth Limited 
(the borrower) that would be loaded on to the platform. 
In response to my provisional decision, ReBS seems to be arguing that the Article 36H 
activity does not include unfulfilled promises by Huddle to Mrs J to set up a platform. 
However, I think any administration or maladministration (including poor service) relating to 
the platform would be an act which is ancillary to the regulated activity under Article 36H - 
and such ancillary activities are within our jurisdiction.
So I think that the complaint does involve regulated activities and/or activities which are 
ancillary to those activities. However, I now need to consider whether ReBS can be said to 
have accepted responsibility for these acts. Ive gone on to explore this further below.
Did ReBS accept responsibility for those acts?
As Ive set out above, Section 39(3) FSMA says: 
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
This means that ReBS is responsible for complaints arising from anything done or omitted by 
its AR in the carrying on of business for which ReBS accepted responsibility. As Ive explained, Mr W likely gave advice and made arrangements for the CGrowth 
investment and the IF ISA. But Ive seen no evidence that Mr W was associated with either 
Huddle or ReBS. So there is no basis for me to conclude that ReBS accepted responsibility 
for any acts undertaken by him. 
There no compelling or persuasive evidence (or allegation) that Huddle advised on or 
promoted the CGrowth investment. I think Huddle possibly undertook arrangements for the 
CGrowth investment and ancillary activities in connection with the arrangement of the IF ISA. 
And Huddle certainly undertook an Article 36H activity and/or activities ancillary to that 
activity. So Ive looked closely at the AR agreement to understand what ReBS authorised 
Huddle to do and what it therefore accepted responsibility for.
Section 1 says
1.1 This Appointed Representative Agreement (the Agreement) sets out the basis 
under which the AR may operate a Peer-to-Peer Platform (as defined in this 
Agreement) in the United Kingdom under the supervision of the Principal.
1.2 Rebuildingsociety.com Ltd (The Principal) is a firm authorised and regulated by 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), Number 656344, having permission to 
operate an electronic loan based crowdfunding platform, Management of Client 
Money and Assets and Approve Financial Promotions under the FCA rules. Its 
regulatory disclaimers state that it provides advice in respect of its own products 
and services but does not provide general investment advice to retail clients, and 
accordingly that any prospective retail client is recommended to obtain 
independent investment advice from a qualified independent financial adviser.
Section 3 sets out Appointment and the Services. This includes the following:
3.1 The AR may, in accordance with the procedures set out by The Principal 
distribute Non-Investment Financial Promotions that are approved by The Principal 
relating to the Products and Services.
3.5 The Principal does not accept any responsibility for any other activities of the AR 
including, but not limited to any Consumer Credit Activities or Equity Crowdfunding 
Activities.
The AR agreement defines products as:
Products means Products offered under P2P Agreements and through the operation 
of a loan based crowdfunding platform.
Services isnt defined despite it being capitalised and appearing in clause 3.1 and 
elsewhere in the agreement.
Section 4 sets out the limitations on Huddles activities. Ive set out the relevant terms below:
4.2 The AR shall not carry on any Regulated Activity, other than that of an AR, 
which would conflict with activities for which the Principal is authorised.
4.4 The AR will not make or distribute any Financial Promotions (or any kind of 
financial promotion) in relation to its Products or Services without these 
having been expressly approved per the AR and the Principals Financial 
Promotion Policy and Processes. Within 5 Business Days of receipt of a draft 
Financial Promotion, the Principal will provide its approval or disapproval in writing (by email). If the Financial Promotion has been declined, full reasons 
for this will be provided.
My view is that Huddle was authorised under the agreement to operate a peer-to-peer 
platform  the Article 36H activity. This doesnt seem to be in dispute and is also reflected in 
the extracts from the ReBS website that Ive quoted in detail above. And I think this 
necessarily also includes acts conducted by Huddle that are ancillary to the operation of 
such a platform  such as communications with customers like Mr J about setting up the 
platform. 
I think Huddle was also likely to have been authorised to distribute financial promotions that 
were approved by ReBS. But theres no evidence in this case that Huddle did give advice or 
distribute a financial promotion relating to CGrowth - approved or otherwise. That seems like 
it was done by Mr W.
ReBS seems to now suggest that the operation of the Article 36H platform was restricted 
transactions involving pre-approved financial promotions and that the C Growth investment 
was not approved. And therefore it says any acts relating to the Article 36H activity in this 
case was not approved. But I dont think that is clearly reflected in the AR agreement. And in 
any event, any breach of such a pre-approval requirement would, in my view, be a breach 
of how certain activities are performed rather than what activities can be performed by an 
adviser. In the Anderson & Ors v Sense Network Ltd [2019] EWCA Civ 1395 case, the Court 
of Appeal drew a distinction between these types of restriction. The breach of the latter kind 
of provision takes the AR's conduct out of the principals ambit of responsibility under section 
39(3) FSMA, but breach of the former doesn't.
What is not authorised in the agreement is any form of advice arrangements for investments 
such as CGrowth or indeed any other investments at all. And there is also no mention of 
authority to undertake any acts in relation to an IF ISA.
So, taking into account all of the above, my conclusion is that we do have jurisdiction to 
consider Mr Js complaint against ReBS in connection with acts that relate to the Article 36H 
regulated activity  including ancillary activities. That is the only act of Huddle in this case 
that it was authorised by ReBS to undertake under section 39(3) FSMA. In the 
circumstances of this complaint, I think this essentially goes to whether Huddle (and 
therefore ReBS) treated Mr J fairly when offering to and then failing to set up an online 
platform for the investment in CGrowth. I think it also encompasses whether or not Huddle 
provided Mr J with poor service relating to the platform.
We do not have jurisdiction to consider the complaint against ReBS about any advice or 
arrangements for the CGrowth investment or the IF ISA. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Im of the view that we have jurisdiction to look at some elements of the complaint, Ive 
gone on to look at the merits of those matters. Ive considered all the available evidence and 
arguments to assess whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is limited evidence available to me about what happened at the time. But what we do 
have in the form of the email exchange from 2018 suggests that Mr J and Mrs J were promised that an online platform would be set up for them by Huddle and that this would 
allow them to monitor their investments in CGrowth.
There is no dispute that Huddle did not in fact put such a platform in place as they should 
have done or promised to do. And it appears that the communication between Huddle and 
Mr J and Mrs J was poor as no reasons were given for this failure and there were no 
updates about what was being done. This has undoubtedly caused Mr J distress and 
inconvenience as its contributed to him having little or no information about what was 
happening or has happened with his investment.
However, I dont think this means that ReBS is responsible for reimbursing Mr J for the entire 
amount of the investment he made. As Ive explained above, ReBS is not responsible for 
any advice and arrangements relating to the CGrowth investment or the IF ISA. And it 
appears that Mr J and Mrs J had committed to making the CGrowth investment before 
Huddles involvement with them and their promise to set up a platform. 
It looks likely that the investment may have failed and that has or will potentially cause 
losses to Mr J. But it would not be fair or reasonable to say that ReBSs failures in 
connection with the platform it offered means that ReBS should compensate Mr J for the 
investment loss. 
Taking this all into account, I think it is fair for ReBS to pay Mr J £450 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him by Huddles poor service in connection with the electronic 
system it said it would set up and failed to do. This amount is higher than I might otherwise 
have awarded  to reflect the distress that Mr J has suffered at a time when he was worried 
(and remains worried) about a large investment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my decision is that we do have jurisdiction to consider 
some limited aspects of the complaint by Mr J against rebuildingsociety.com that is the 
failure by its AR Huddle to set up the electronic system for lending. 
rebuildingsociety.com Ltd must pay Mr J £450 for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him by this.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman