DRN-3467418
The complaint
Mr H complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc provided inaccurate information about a payment 
arrangement. 
 
What happened
Mr Hs financial circumstances were impacted by the Covid pandemic. He applied for a 
three-month payment deferral on his Sainsburys loan which was approved. The payment 
deferral was subsequently extended by a further three months in line with the updated                                
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) temporary Covid relief guidance. 
Under this guidance, the loan term was extended so the missed payments could be made at 
the end of the loan term with no detrimental impact on Mr Hs credit file. However, the FCA 
guidance only covered six months missed payments and so Mr H no longer qualified for 
support under this guidance when the second payment deferral ended in November 2020.
By this time Mr Hs circumstances hadnt improved. Sainsburys considered Mr Hs 
circumstances - as it is required to do under the usual regulations applicable to consumers in 
financial difficulties. And Sainsburys offered a three month zero-offer arrangement  no 
payments were required for another three months. This ended in February 2021. 
But Mr H says that in November 2020 he was given incorrect information about how the 
arrears on this arrangement would be dealt with. So, he complained to Sainsburys.
Sainsburys looked into Mr Hs complaint. And it accepted it hadnt been clear enough to    
Mr H about the time period for clearing the arrears. It also acknowledged it had taken too 
long to respond to his complaint. It paid Mr H £100 compensation for the inconvenience this 
caused. Sainsburys ultimately agreed to allow Mr H to repay his arrears accrued from 
November 2020 over a longer period. But as Mr H said this wasnt affordable to him, 
Sainsburys explained that Mr H would need to speak to its specialist financial team to 
discuss what other remedies could be offered. And it explained that this could result in       
his account being defaulted.
Unhappy with the response, Mr H referred the matter to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into it. But she didnt think Sainsburys needed to do anything more. She said the 
unclear information hadnt impacted Mr Hs overall situation and she thought the £100 fairly 
compensated Mr H for any inconvenience caused.
Mr H responded to say that he was told he could repay the arrears over the remaining term 
and that he was unhappy that his credit file had been negatively impacted. He said that if he 
had been told the arrears needed to be paid sooner, he would have borrowed money to 
meet his loan commitments to avoid any impact on his credit file. 
The investigator listened to the call recording from when the additional payment 
arrangement was agreed. She accepted that the period for the arrears to be repaid wasnt 
made clear, but she didnt agree that Mr H had been told the arrears could be paid back over 
the term of the loan. So, she didnt alter the outcome she had reached.
Mr H remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to look into the complaint. So, it has 
been passed to me to reach a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions and for broadly the same 
reasons as the investigator. I know Mr H will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Mr H had exhausted the FCA temporary Covid relief scheme when the second three-month 
payment deferral ended in November 2020. At this point, as his circumstances had not 
recovered, Sainsburys was required to look at more bespoke arrangements based on       
Mr Hs individual circumstances. 
Having assessed Mr Hs circumstances, Sainsburys offered Mr H a zero-offer for three 
months  essentially a further three-month payment deferral. Mr H doesnt say that the 
arrangement was inappropriate. Rather, its the terms of the arrangement  in respect of the 
arrears and the impact on his credit file, that are in dispute. 
So, like the investigator, Ive listened to the call recording of the discussion between 
Sainsburys and Mr H. And Ive reviewed Sainsburys customer notes and the 
correspondence issued to Mr H at this time.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr Hs income and expenditure confirmed he had an 
income deficit. And that Mr H indicated he was looking for a further short-term payment 
arrangement as he expected to be returning to work in January 2021. After some discussion 
Sainsburys ultimately offered Mr H a zero-offer arrangement for three months. I think this is 
fair given the discussion between the parties and that Mr H had said he intended to return to 
work a few months later. But Im satisfied that it was explained to Mr H that arrears would 
accrue and that this would be reported on his credit file. 
I note Mr H has said he could have borrowed money to make his loan repayments had he 
been told the impact it would have on his credit file and that the arrears would need to be 
paid at the end of the three months. And I accept that he did ask about how the arrears 
would be repaid at the end of three months. I also accept this wasnt made as clear to Mr H 
as it should have been during the call. But I can see the that in the follow up letter sent to   
Mr H it says:
What this means
While you're not making payments, arrears will still build on your account. Your credit file will 
show the arrears on your account and this is likely to affect your ability to get credit in the 
future.
What happens next
If on 16/02/2021 you're not able to bring your account up to date, we'll issue you with a 
Notice of Default. This means that the full balance on your account will become due and the 
Notice will set this out in more detail. This is in line with the Consumer Credit Act 1974.So, I think Mr H wouldve known  upon receipt of that letter, that not only would there be an 
impact on his credit file, but he would need to clear the arrears in February 2021. Its 
possible that Mr H didnt read this correspondence as he thought it was simply confirmation 
of what he understood he had been told on the call. But Sainsburys notes indicate the letter 
was sent and so I think its most likely Mr H received it. So, while I acknowledge that this all 
happened at a stressful time for Mr H, overall, I think Sainsburys did enough to explain the 
terms of the arrangement and the impact on his credit file.
Sainsburys has acknowledged the information provided in the call could have been clearer 
and that it should have responded to Mr Hs sooner than it did. And it paid Mr H £100 to 
apologise. I think this is fair as it adequately reflects the inconvenience caused when taking 
all the above into account and that it did subsequently agree to allow the arrears to be repaid 
over a longer period. So, I wont be asking Sainsburys do take any further action in respect 
of this complaint.  
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman