DRN-3804685
The complaint
Mr D, on behalf of the estate of Ms D, has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited 
(British Gas) caused damage during visits under a home emergency policy.
What happened
British Gas visited Ms Ds home to deal with a leak. British Gas and another contractor 
visited on multiple occasions before finding the source of the leak and repairing it. Mr D 
complained as he said British Gas had caused unnecessary damage to his mothers home 
by carrying out works that didnt find the source of the leak.
When British Gas replied, it said it had previously advised Mr D it would be liable to repair 
and make good the access it had made through the concrete flooring. However, it had 
reviewed its position and while it would cover the damage to the floor and the wall, it 
wouldnt deal with the floor covering, carpets or wooden flooring, as this needed to be 
claimed through home insurance. It said it hadnt caused the leak, so it wasnt responsible 
for the damage to the flooring. Due to Ms Ds ill-health and that Mr D had advised the 
contractor had misdiagnosed the situation, it offered £200 as a gesture of goodwill and 
apology. It said the claims team had been in touch with the details of the work it was willing 
to carry out.
Mr D complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said British 
Gas wasnt responsible for damage caused by leaks unless they caused the damage and it 
couldnt be held responsible for pre-existing damage. He said British Gas had acted fairly by 
carrying out work to deal with the damage caused by the engineers gaining access and the 
compensation offered was reasonable. As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint was referred to 
me. 
I issued two provisional decisions on this complaint. In my first provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said I thought the 
damage to the living room and bedroom floor was the result of the chemicals in the water 
from the leak, so would have needed to be replaced anyway. I said the damage to the 
hallway floor seemed to be the result of unnecessary work carried out by the engineer to find 
the source of the leak. I said British Gas should pay the cost of replacing the hall floor, based 
on quotes obtained by Mr D. British Gas didnt reply to my provisional decision. However, Mr 
D replied and said although there was a damp patch on the living room carpet, initially, there 
was no damp or damage at all to the bedroom. The damage only occurred when the 
engineers filled and repressurised the system on two occasions due to their failure to 
diagnose the problem. 
I considered the evidence again and issued a second provisional decision and said British 
Gas should pay the cost of replacing both the hall floor and the bedroom carpet based on 
quotes provided by Mr D, as I thought British Gas responsible for damaging them. Following 
this, it became clear that it was difficult for Mr D to obtain quotes, including because the 
flooring had already been replaced. So, I wrote to both parties and said I would decide a 
settlement figure that I thought was fair and reasonable. I said I thought British Gas should 
pay £1,700 to settle the complaint based on the reasonable cost of the supply and fitting of a 
like for like carpet and an engineered wood floor. Both parties were given until 11 November 
2022 to reply.
British Gas replied and asked how the figure had been calculated and said it shouldnt be 
based on a guess. British Gas suggested that it could appoint a contractor to assess the 
cost of the replacement flooring.
Mr D said the amount for the damage was acceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decisions. Ive considered British Gass comment about the settlement amount. 
The figure I proposed wasnt based on a guess. It was based on the elements required to 
replace a carpet and wooden floor taking into account what was there at the time of the 
damage. It included items such as underlay and floor edging, plus labour. The costs were 
based on comparing the costs of the different elements to decide a reasonable cost.
Im aware British Gas has offered to send a contractor. However, I dont think that is 
appropriate in the circumstances. This complaint needs to be brought to a close. I dont think 
a contractor instructed by British Gas to decide how much it should pay is the way to achieve 
this at this stage. Im also mindful that it is the cost to Mr D to replace the flooring that I need 
to consider. If Mr D had replaced the floor like for like, in the first instance I would have 
considered if British Gas should simply pay those costs. A complication has arisen because 
Mr D replaced the flooring with a different and more expensive type of flooring. Based on all 
the evidence Ive seen, and taking into account the comments from both parties about this 
complaint and how it should be resolved, I remain of the view that it is fair for British Gas to 
pay £1,700 for the cost of replacing the flooring.
Putting things right
British Gas must pay £1,700 as the cost for replacing the flooring.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay £1,700 for the cost of 
replacing the damaged flooring.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms D 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman