DRN-4241067
The complaint
Ms L makes a number of complaints about Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Ms L makes a series of complains about Santander following accounts she opened for her 
children. Her complaints are well known to the parties and are in summary that Santander 
refused to keep the accounts open after requesting unnecessary as well as illegal 
information about their immigration status. Ms L says Santander had no right to request that 
information and says the actions were discriminatory. She questions if the request is applied 
to all customers and asks Santander to provide details of the law that allows it to control 
Home Office data. Ms L says Santander shouldnt have written directly to her 14-year-old 
son and would like substantial compensation.
Santander says the account terms and conditions make clear its entitled to ask a customer 
for identity and status documents as they must be a permanent resident of the United 
Kingdom. It says it complied with its regulatory duties by asking Ms L to provide permission 
for it to access an approved Home Office site for establishing identity and immigration status. 
It also says the letter Ms L provided about such status made clear it could not be used as 
evidence of status. Santander says it will not pay the £5,000 compensation Ms L would like.
Ms L brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained our role, that we are not Santanders regulator and that its not our role to decide if 
there has been a breach of the law. The investigator thought Santanders account terms and 
conditions made clear that Ms L was required to provide evidence of status and identity. And 
the letter from the Home Office made clear it couldnt be used as proof of status.
Ms L doesnt accept that view and says she doesnt accept the £100 compensation she was 
offered for the delay in processing her information request. She says a different bank 
approved her account applications and questions the law that allows Santander to control 
private Home Office data.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms L will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly she feels 
about what took place. I confirm that I have read all of her detailed submissions to us.
I hope it will be helpful to Ms L if I set our role here and explain which arears of her complaint 
that we cant deal with for reasons I will explain.
We are not Santanders regulator which means we cant punish it or direct it about how it 
runs it business. I am sure that Ms L appreciates that Santander has regulatory duties that it 
must comply with and so I cant fairly direct it about the type of documents it accepts or what 
process it has for establishing identity or an immigration status. I make that clear as I think 
this is the crux of the complaint here that Ms L questions why Santander wishes to access 
Home Office data to establish identity or status. Im satisfied its not our role to question that 
process and that it would be for a court to decide if that process was illegal not us.
Im satisfied that Santanders account terms and conditions make clear that a customer must 
be a permanent resident of the United Kingdom and provides details of evidence that it will 
accept. So, I think Santander made its position clear and I have made clear that its not our 
role to tell it what type of documents it accepts or what its rules are for offering an account.
I have looked carefully at the letter Ms L provided about her childrens status which I think 
clearly states this letter is not proof of your status and cannot be used to prove your 
status to others. I dont think that letter could be clearer and dont think Santander made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by asking Ms L in those circumstances to provide additional 
evidence. I can also see that Santander asked Ms L to allow it to use the Home Office share 
code facility which I think would have allowed Santander to use an approved method of 
obtaining the evidence it required. I dont think it clear what Ms Ls objection to that process 
was and think Santander was entitled to ask Ms L to use that process. It follows that I dont 
think Santander acted unfairly or made a mistake by doing so.
I appreciate Ms L suggests that somehow Santander would be able to control Home Office 
data by having such access. I dont think that is the case and am satisfied the Home Office 
share code system is designed for issues such as this and would not allow Santander to 
have any control of the data. But simply be able to obtain evidence of immigration status. I 
am satisfied this process is well known and established. And it difficult to see why Ms L 
suggests her childrens data and information would be unsafe if Santander were able to use 
the Home Office share code, when she opened a bank account with it, no doubt with the 
intention of safely depositing money with it.
I have not seen any evidence that Santander has discriminated against Ms L by asking for 
the information and not seen any evidence this is anything other than a standard request in 
these circumstances.
Santander accepts it ought to have written to Ms L rather than her 14-year-old child and 
accepts it ought to have dealt with her information request far quicker. I can see it has 
offered £100 compensation which I think is fair and reasonable. I appreciate that is not the 
main part of this complaint. But dont think that delay justifies further compensation or that it 
had a significant impact or caused financial loss. I can see that the investigator has 
explained which organisation would decide if data protection rules were broken.
I can see that Ms L has now opened accounts at a different bank and questions why 
different process was used. That is not something I can comment on. I also think Santander 
was entitled to close the accounts if required information wasnt provided and find this now 
brings an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman