DRN-2263129
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr T holds with NRAM Limited. Hes unhappy that 
NRAM hasnt apportioned his payments so that the account balance that attracts the highest 
interest rate is repaid first. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again in 
detail here. Instead Ill give a brief summary and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr T took the mortgage out in 2002, and then took further advances in 2004 and 2007. It 
was previously with a different lender, which passed it to NRAM. More recently, NRAM has 
transferred the debt on again, to a lender Ill call H.
The three advances are each held on what is known as a sub-account. The three 
sub-accounts are then aggregated under a single main account number, but with the suffixes 
01,02 and 03 respectively to distinguish them from each other. Sub-account 03 is charged at 
a higher rate than the others, and Mr T says he was told when it started in 2007 that any 
payment he made over the contractual amount would be used to reduce the balance of 
sub-account 03.
Soon after that, sadly, Mr T suffered serious health problems that remain to this day, and 
payments to the mortgage have been made by the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP). In 2019, Mr W started a complaint after realising that his payments over the years 
had been spread across the three sub-accounts proportionately, instead of going into 
sub-account 03.
NRAM responded to confirm that a series of lump sum payments Mr T had made between 
April and November 2018 had been switched to sub-account 03. But Mr T brought his 
complaint to us, saying NRAM should go back and do the same with every overpayment that 
had been made since 2007. 
Earlier this year, an ombudsman colleague decided that we could only look at events since 
3 April 2013; anything before that was time-barred under our rules. One of our investigators 
looked at what had happened since 3 April 2013, but wasnt persuaded NRAM had treated 
Mr T unfairly by apportioning payments across all three sub-accounts. Mr T has asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Im aware Mr T has made other complaints about how his mortgage has been handled, 
including one about how H is handling it now. To be clear, my decision here deals solely with 
the issue of how NRAM apportioned the payments it received for credit of Mr Ts mortgage 
between 3 April 2013* and April 2018.**
*Ive no intention of revisiting my fellow ombudsmans jurisdiction decision that events prior 
to 3 April 2013 (which, of course, include Mr Ts allegation that NRAM told him that 
overpayments would go to sub-account 03) are time-barred under our rules.
**I dont need to consider the lump sum payments made after April 2018 as NRAM has 
already moved those to sub-account 03.
I note that Mr T has said he doesnt want the complaint decided by an ombudsman until after 
the investigator has called to talk him through her findings. But that was more than two 
months ago, and the investigator has made numerous calls to Mr T that have gone 
unanswered. We have to be fair to both parties to a complaint, and that means not allowing 
cases to drift indefinitely. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
much the same overall reasons. 
The way NRAM operated its systems meant that unless instructed otherwise by its 
customer, it allocates payments proportionately across the sub-accounts that make up the 
overall debt. Im aware Mr T says he was told differently, but theres no evidence to either 
support or contradict what he says, and as Ive said, that point is time-barred anyway. 
So I could only find that NRAM had treated Mr T unfairly if I was satisfied that, at some time, 
he had expressly instructed it to credit any overpayments to sub-account 03. Theres no 
evidence Mr T ever did that (and to be fair hes never claimed that he did; his position is that 
he thought it would happen automatically). 
Im satisfied from looking at the annual statements of Mr Ts mortgage that NRAM did 
include information about how payments were treated as normal and what borrowers could if 
they wanted to change that. 
Im also aware that Mr T didnt fully assimilate that information, not least because of his poor 
health. But that doesnt mean NRAM should have acted unilaterally in the absence of an 
instruction from Mr T; also Mr T has told us that he didnt disclose information about his 
health problems to NRAM.
That was entirely Mr Ts prerogative; its up to him and him alone to decide who he tells, and 
what he tells them about his circumstances, and I respect that absolutely. The converse of 
that, however, is that I cant fairly say NRAM should have done something different from the 
norm to take account of circumstances it knew nothing about.
My final decisionIm not unsympathetic towards Mr Ts position, but for the reasons set out above, Im unable 
to uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman