DRN-3184156
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy because Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) did not reimburse the money he 
transferred to a fraudster.
What happened
Mr M says that he received a call from someone claiming to be an officer from a specified 
magistrates court but who was in fact a fraudster. The caller told Mr M to look up the 
number he was called from, which matched that of the court. Mr M was told that there was 
an ongoing investigation case in court and that he had to pay fees to different judges 
involved otherwise he would be arrested and might go to prison. Mr M was scared. He was 
also in the process of buying a house and was particularly concerned that he would get a 
judgement that would affect his ability to get a mortgage.  
Mr M made the payments listed in the table below from his Metro Bank account. He also 
made a payment from another account with a different bank that he says has refunded his 
loss in full. 
Date Amount Payee
22/04/21 £1,251 1
22/04/21 £1,572 1
22/04/21 £983 2
Total £3,806
Mr M says he was manipulated by the scammer and that he didnt receive any warnings 
from Metro Bank at the time he made the payments. The scammer also told him that most of 
the payments would be refunded by the end of the day. Mr M was given a mobile telephone 
number to send proof the payments had been made to. He also called Metro Bank soon 
after the last payment had been made to check the last two payments had been made. Later 
that day he called Metro to report the scam. 
Metro Bank refunded half of Mr Ms losses because it said it could have done more to warn 
him about this type of scam. But it says Mr M didnt question why he would pay his taxes 
direct if hes employed or why he would pay a judge directly. Given these factors, it held Mr 
M responsible for his remaining loss. Metro Bank tried to recover Mr Ms losses from the 
banks that received them but was told that no funds remained. Mr M would like Metro Bank 
to refund his remaining loss. 
The investigator recommended that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. He focused on the fact 
Metro Bank had said Mr M didnt question why he had to pay his taxes directly. The 
investigator said that most people dont know what happens when things go wrong with tax 
payments and it was reasonable for Mr M to believe hed be contacted directly by HMRC. 
Also, Mr M had been pressured into making the payments quickly. 
Metro Bank didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
- Mr M wasnt called from a spoofed number but from a mobile phone and HMRC 
wouldnt call from a mobile phone. 
- Mr M hadnt received any prior communication about unpaid tax.
- Mr M was told he would receive a refund by the end of the day, which seems unlikely 
given the severity of the investigation. 
- Payments werent made to HMRC or a business account but to named individuals.
- Mr M made no mention of the caller having any personal details about him or taking 
him through security questions as the genuine HMRC would. 
- Metro Bank referred to another case with this service with very similar facts that we 
didnt uphold. 
Metro Bank is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Metro Bank says one of 
those exceptions applies in this case. It has accepted it didnt provide adequate warnings to 
Mr M at the time of the payments and agreed to refund him 50% of his loss but has held Mr 
M responsible for the remainder of his loss. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Metro Bank should have refunded the money Mr 
M lost.  I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply 
in the circumstances of this case. 
In the circumstances Metro Bank should fairly and reasonably refund the remaining 
money Mr M lost (£1,903).
The money was taken from the Mr Ms current account. Its not clear how Mr M would 
have used the money if Metro Bank had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Metro Bank should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% 
simple per year from the date it declined his full claim under the CRM Code to the 
date of payment.
I have carefully considered Metro Banks representations about whether Mr M had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transaction to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to 
reach a different view.  In particular, I am not persuaded that Mr M failed to take the requisite 
level of care required for the firm to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM 
Code.
In reaching this decision, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the fraudster for Mr M 
and the impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on his thoughts and
actions. 
Im satisfied that Metro Bank has not shown that Mr M lacked a reasonable basis of belief 
because:
- I note what Metro Bank has said about the fact Mr M wasnt called from a spoofed 
telephone number, but this isnt correct. Mr M was called from a spoofed number 
which he checked matched the magistrates court he was told the call was made 
from. The mobile telephone number Mr M provided was the number to which he was 
asked to send WhatsApp messages to demonstrate he had made the requested payments. Metro Bank is aware that scammers are able to pose as trusted 
organisations by spoofing the genuine organisations telephone number. This is a 
sophisticated technique and means that the average customer wouldnt be able to 
appreciate the risk that they might not be talking to the genuine organisation. The 
callers number looking as if it belongs to that genuine organisation is very powerful. 
Ive not seen anything that makes me think Mr M ought to have been aware that a 
fraudster could mimic a genuine organisations telephone number in this way.
- Having listened to his calls with Metro Bank and reviewed his communication with 
this service its clear that English is not Mr Ms first language. There is no suggestion 
that he did not understand what was being said in the scam call and its clear he was 
convinced by the content of the call that he would be arrested if he didnt make the 
payments. In my view, this demonstrates just how persuasive and powerful the social 
engineering techniques used by fraudsters can be. Im mindful that an appreciation of 
those social engineering techniques can be more difficult to spot when you are not a 
native speaker of a language. 
- The majority of Metro Banks points in this case relate to the fact it considers Mr M 
should have recognised that courts and HMRC wouldnt act in the ways the fraudster 
led Mr M to believe. For example, Mr M wouldnt pay tax directly as hes employed 
and wouldnt pay judges directly. Im persuaded that Mr M didnt have a good 
understanding of the UK tax and court systems and for this reason didnt appreciate 
that a genuine court would not deal with an HMRC debt in this way. For example, I 
dont believe Mr M appreciates that he is employed and so his employer should deal 
with his tax. When Metro Bank asked Mr M his tax status he wasnt clear in his 
response and in an email to this service Mr M said he was self-employed. But I see 
from his statements he receives regular payments from an employer. The Code says 
that Metro Bank should think about the all the circumstances at the time of the 
payment, in particular the characteristics of the customer and the complexity and 
sophistication of the scam. 
- Im satisfied Mr M was placed under a considerable amount of pressure by the 
fraudster to make a quick payment. Mr M was convinced that if he didnt make the 
payment he would be arrested. This was of course a deliberate tactic by the fraudster 
to create fear  in the hope it would disrupt Mr Ms thinking and make him more 
compliant. On balance, Im satisfied this happened here to Mr M and that in all the 
circumstances his response was not unreasonable. I believe that it was difficult for Mr 
M to think clearly in the moment.
Metro Bank has referred to an investigators findings in a case that was not upheld that it 
says has very similar facts. This service deals with complaints based on their individual 
circumstances and is not bound by an investigators opinion in another case. In any event, I 
consider there are important differences between the facts of this case and the one Metro 
Bank has referred me to.
Overall, Im not persuaded Metro Bank has shown that Mr M made the payments without a 
reasonable basis for believing that he was paying a legitimate organisation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to:
- Pay Mr M the remaining 50% of the money lost - £1,903;
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on that amount, calculated from the date Metro 
Bank PLC decided to pay half of Mr Ms claim under the CRM Code to the date of settlement  less any tax lawfully deductible.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman