DRN-2857843
The complaint
Mr E complains about the service he received from Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd 
(Vanguard) when he tried to transfer an ISA to them. 
What happened
Between August and October 2020, Mr E transferred some money he had in an ISA with 
another provider to an ISA with Vanguard. Hes raised a series of issues with that process. 
Before doing the transfer, Mr E had emailed Vanguard for some details. He wanted to know 
about drip-feeding money over from one ISA to the other. He complained when he felt the 
answers Vanguard gave him were unclear. So Vanguard called Mr E and explained things to 
him. 
Mr E then tried to set up the transfer using Vanguards online service. But he found it was 
asking him for direct debit information, which didnt seem right. So he tried to start the 
process again. But the system wouldnt let him do that  there was some sort of issue with 
log-in identities and validation codes  so Mr E raised a further complaint. 
Mr E also wasnt happy with a question the online system had asked him about which years 
hed made contributions to his existing ISA in. He felt this had led to a transfer for the full 
amount hed previously invested being set up, which wasnt what he wanted to do. Vanguard 
noted this wasnt what Mr E had wanted to do, so they changed the instruction. 
Vanguard then sent an automated reminder for a form Mr E had already given them, so he 
added that to the complaint too. They accepted that was a mistake, and marked that the 
letter had already been provided. The transfer seemed to complete successfully after that, in 
October. 
Mr E wasnt happy with Vanguards response to his complaint, so he came to us. Our 
investigator looked at the matter and found the service had been reasonable on most of the 
points raised. But he felt Vanguards question about ISA contributions had needlessly added 
to the inconvenience Mr E experienced. He recommended Vanguard pay Mr E £50 
compensation to recognise that impact. 
Vanguard accepted that view, and have said theyve paid Mr E the £50. Mr E didnt agree 
though, highlighting his disagreement with the investigators conclusions about what had 
affected his use of Vanguards online service. 
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, its come to me for a further review, and a formal 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr E feels very strongly about his complaint. Hes given us a lot of detail about the 
things he feels Vanguard have done wrong. And I can see how each time Vanguard took 
steps to resolve the issues Mr E raised, something else came up for him. So I can 
understand why he feels let down by the overall service he received. 
Our investigator has gone through each point individually, explaining his views about what 
happened in detail. But that hasnt resolved the complaint. Ive reached largely the same 
conclusion as the investigator, but Im going to try presenting my findings differently. Im 
hoping to draw focus to the actual impact the issues Mr Es raised had on his plans to 
transfer his ISA. 
I can see Vanguard had to take extra steps in places, to make sure their process stayed on 
track. I can see how the need for those steps point to the service not being perfect, or not 
being what Mr E wanted. But equally, I find those steps did enough to keep the level of 
service at a reasonable standard, for the most part. 
Specifically, I see that Vanguard were responsive to Mr Es questions at the start of the 
process. While Mr E found their answers confusing, I find their answers were relatively clear. 
Vanguard wouldnt use a drip-feed process to transfer the ISA, even if other companies 
would. 
Any confusion that had come up was put right straight away by the extra step Vanguard took 
 speaking to Mr E on the phone. So although Mr E had some issues with the service he 
received on this point, overall the service got to a reasonable level without too much trouble. 
Mr E had enough information to make an informed decision about whether to transfer his 
ISA to Vanguard, or not. 
Theres some disagreement about what caused Vanguards online system to stop working 
for Mr E. But his complaint of 3 September mentioned being initially asked for details to set 
up a direct debit. Vanguard have said thats consistent with him trying to open a new 
account, rather than transfer an existing ISA. And that in turn is consistent with an issue 
theyre aware of that causes the sort of log-in problems Mr E went on to describe.
But regardless of what actually caused the problem, the timeline here tells me Vanguard 
were able to fix things within a few days, so that Mr E could set up his ISA transfer. In that 
way, their actions meant a reasonable level of service was maintained. 
Vanguard should look again though at the question Mr E highlighted with them. Asking what 
years hed made contributions to his ISA was different to asking him which contribution year 
he wanted to use when transferring it. 
The wording of the question seemed to mean Vanguard needed to change the application 
Mr E made, adding some inconvenience to the process. This doesnt appear to have been 
major  it looks like a new application form was needed, and an automated email seems to 
have been sent out asking for this, even though Vanguard already had it. But I find this 
impact needs to be acknowledged when deciding what more needs to be done here to put 
things right. 
Putting things right
By keeping the application on track, Vanguard have already put things right as the process 
went along. The transfer was successful, and seems to have been done the way Mr E 
wanted it done. The only lasting impact I can see is Mr Es feeling that he was needlessly 
inconvenienced by the process. 
I cant do anything to take away the trouble and upset someone feels. But it can sometimes help to use compensation as a way to recognise theres been that sort of impact. 
The amounts we direct companies to pay for this sort of impact varies, as each person 
experiences trouble and upset slightly differently. But generally, in cases where the impact 
doesnt last long, and when the overall transaction isnt too badly affected, we tend to award 
smaller amounts of compensation. 
Mr Es talked about a Saturday evening where his efforts to transfer his ISA were frustrated 
by the issues he encountered. But Vanguard took steps  quite quickly and responsively  to 
put things right and keep the transfer on track. So I find a relatively small amount of 
compensation is suitable for this case, to put things right. 
Our investigator recommended £50. This acts as a recognition that Mr E felt frustrated at 
times by the service he received. But it also acknowledges that overall, the level of service 
provided allowed Mr E to achieve what he wanted to, without a particularly long delay. I find 
£50 strikes the right balance for those circumstances, so Ive decided to award that amount. 
My final decision
I partly uphold Mr Es complaint about Vanguard Asset Management, Ltd. To acknowledge 
the trouble and upset the issues in this case added for Mr E, they should pay him £50 
compensation. I understand this has already been paid, in which case no further action is 
needed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman