DRN-2157452
The complaint
Mrs P complains Bamboo Limited irresponsibly lent to her. She says Bamboo Limited didnt
complete reasonable and proportionate checks before it agreed to lend to her. She says had
it done so, Bamboo Limited wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable.
What happened
Mrs P was approved for a loan by Bamboo. It was for £3,000, with repayments of £160.69 to 
be repaid over 36 months. Mrs P says at the time she applied for the loan, she was
experiencing financial difficulties, and further checks by Bamboo wouldve shown she
couldnt afford the loan repayments. She says she has lost out financially as a result, as she
has had to pay additional interest and charges.
I wrote to Mrs P and Bamboo with my provisional decision in September 2020. In my 
provisional decision I explained:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ps complaint.
Bamboo needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to understand
if any lending was affordable to Mrs P. The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks
it has to complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks could
include things such as a customers income (over the full term of the loan), and their
outgoing expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the
amount of credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments
and total length of the term. The checks also need to be borrower focused.
In relation to repaying the loan in a sustainable way, the industry rules and guidance define
this as being able to repay without undue difficulties. And in particular the borrower should
be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; and
without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
There was also an obligation on Bamboo to carefully consider all of the information it is
presented before deciding to lend, and for it to make a fair decision.
Having carefully considered all of the information that both parties have provided so far, Im
not minded to uphold Mrs P currently. I say this because Im satisfied the checks which
Bamboo conducted in this instance were likely proportionate.
As explained above Mrs P took out a loan for £3,000. This was to be paid over 36 months
with payments of £160.69. As this was the first loan which Mrs P had taken with Bamboo,
considering the amount and the term of the loan, I would expect Bamboo to conduct a
reasonable check into Mrs Ps creditworthiness. This would include gaining an insight into
Mrs Ps income and expenditure; as well checking her credit file or reviewing bank
statements to be satisfied that she was in a position to sustainably repay the loan.
Bamboo says it completed an income and expenditure check and verified Mrs Ps income
via a credit reference agency. It also checked Mrs Ps credit file and asked for information
about her outgoings.
The information which Mrs P provided stated she was earning approximately £1,375 per
month, was living with a partner, and was using the loan for an upcoming wedding. She
confirmed she paid no monthly rent or mortgage, as this was covered by Mrs Ps partner.
Bamboo also applied a percentage decrease to cover any other outgoings which was based
on national average statistics. This income and expenditure check seemingly showed the
loan was affordable to Mrs P.
Bamboo also conducted a credit file search and has provided our service with a copy of this.
Ive reviewed this credit file, and the results do not give any indication this loan mayve been
unaffordable to Mrs P. I appreciate that different searches will show different things, but
Bamboo is entitled to rely on the information it gathered at the time.
The search Bamboo completed shows Mrs P had a relatively well-maintained credit file. It
shows Mrs P had an existing loan which was be repaid in line and on time. It also shows that
Mrs P had an active current account, which again was being maintained reasonably well.
There was no indication Mrs P had entered her overdraft or that there were any other
charges on the account. There was also no indication of a mortgage or any other arrears
which is consistent with Mrs Ps application form testimony.
These checks combined didnt give an indication that Mrs P mayve had issues meeting the
repayments at that stage. I appreciate Mrs P disagrees the checks were proportionate in this
instance, but Bamboo is entitled to rely on the information she provided. And Im satisfied the
further checks it completed were proportionate in this instance.
As such Im currently minded saying Bamboo completed proportionate checks, and therefore
its decision to lend was reasonable.
I asked for Mrs P and Bamboo to respond to my provisional decision with any further 
comments. Bamboo agreed with the provisional decision and added no further comments. 
Mrs P whilst understandably upset with the outcome understood the rationale behind the 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses from all parties, Im satisfied my findings in the provisional 
decision remain unchanged. That is to say Im satisfied that in this instance, Bamboos 
checks were proportionate. This is because the checks it completed allowed it to make a 
reasonably informed decision and the information Mrs P provided indicated the loan was 
affordable to her. It follows that I agree Bamboos decision to lend was reasonable in this 
instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman