DRN-2259951
The complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold life assurance policies by Lloyds Bank PLC.
What happened
Following a meeting in April 2008 with a Lloyds financial adviser, Mrs C took out a Lifetime 
cover policy. This was a whole of life assurance policy recommended to Mrs C as a means 
of providing her family with a lump sum to cover the cost of funeral expenses in the event of 
her death. The initial sum assured was for £10,000 with monthly premiums set at just over 
£29. In 2009 Mrs C met with the Lloyds adviser again to review her protection needs. On this 
occasion, the advisers suitability letter noted that:
 As you are very close to all of them [her family], you would really want them here to give 
you a god (sic) send off. This means of course that you have to provide the cost of their 
travel here, and also the accommodation while they are here. Consequently, you are looking 
to increase your cover by a further £5,000 to allow for this. You really feel that when your 
time eventually comes, this level of cover will give you the funeral you really desire.
To meet her objective Mrs C was advised to take out a second Lifetime cover policy. This 
increased the total cost of her cover to £15,000 and her monthly premiums increased by just 
over £16.
At the end of 2019 Mrs C complained to Lloyds saying she believed the policies had been 
mis-sold to her. She said she had felt pushed by the adviser to take out the policies and 
denied saying she wanted to cover the travel costs of her family to attend her funeral. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint saying the policies had been a suitable way in which 
to meet her requirements. It noted Mrs C would not be able to increase her cover through 
her first policy, so she was advised to take a second policy to meet her particular needs. 
Unhappy with the banks response, Mrs C referred her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. In brief, he felt the 
recommendation was suitable and he didnt think there was any evidence of the adviser 
putting pressure on Mrs C to take out the policies. 
Mrs C disagreed. She said whilst she did have relatives living abroad, she didnt have a 
relationship with them and didnt think it was very likely she would give an employee of 
Lloyds such reasons for wanting to take out a policy. So she asked the matter to be passed 
to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I set out my reasons, I 
understand Mrs C feels very strongly that she was pushed into taking out her policies by an 
adviser. My role here is to weigh up the evidence available and decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whether Lloyds has done something wrong. I should also mention at this stage 
that whilst I may not respond to every single point made by both parties involved - no 
discourtesy is intended by this. Instead I've focused on what I think are the key issues here.
Mrs Cs policies are whole of life assurance policies that increase in line with inflation. They 
pay out a specific sum assured when the policyholder passes away and a monthly premium 
is paid throughout the life of the policyholder until they reach the age of 90.
I think its clear from the point of sale documents that Mrs C was seeking a way of ensuring 
that her family and friends would not be put in a difficult position by funeral costs. Mrs C has 
four children and at the time of the advice, one of her children was under the age of 18 and 
dependent on her. So I think its understandable that Mrs C wanted to provide for her family 
in the event of her death so they didnt have to meet her funeral costs. This is something 
Mrs C says she wanted in her submissions to this service and is also supported by the 
contemporaneous notes made at the time of the advice. And I think the Lifetime cover policy 
recommended to her seems to me to be a reasonable way to achieve her objectives. 
That said, I think Mrs Cs main concern is with the advice she received in 2009 about taking 
out another policy to cover the costs of bringing her relatives over from another country to 
attend her funeral. Mrs C says she is shocked to see what the adviser had written in the 
suitability letter  she denies saying this was her aim as most of her family live in this 
country. Amongst other things, the suitability letter says the following: 
You currently have cover for £10,000 but have since had further thoughts in this respect. 
You feel that in the event of your funeral, you had previously not accounted for your friends 
and relatives coming here from various parts of the [a named country] (where you originate 
from).
I can see that the suitability letter which was called a Personal Summary and 
Recommendations Report was dated 7 February 2009 and was prepared by the adviser. 
And on the same day Mrs C signed The Advice You Have Received From Lloyds TSB  
this listed the documents she received which included the suitability letter. So whilst I have 
no reason to doubt Mrs Cs recollections of the meeting she had with the adviser, I need to 
balance this with what was recorded at the time. And Im satisfied the suitability letter made 
quite clear to her what was discussed and why the policy was being recommended.
I know Mrs C has concerns that the second policy would be void because she already had 
cover. But Lloyds have confirmed this isnt correct. The bank also confirmed that Mrs C was 
unable to increase the sum assured under her current policy so a second was recommended 
to make up the shortfall in cover. Lloyds have told this service two policies would not be 
more expensive than one single policy for the same sum assured. And based on her 
documented objectives, I think Lloyds acted reasonably and fairly in making the 
recommendation to take out the second policy as a way to top up the cover she already had. 
Mrs C says she felt the adviser was pressuring her to take out the policy. But I can see the 
adviser did give Mrs C all the advice documents and that after the second policy was sold to 
her, as part of its quality checks, Lloyds contacted her to see if she was happy with the 
service shed received. At this point, she didnt raise any concerns about the sale. Notably, 
the Key Features document makes clear that Mrs C had 30 days after taking out the policies 
to change her mind  she could cancel the policies within 30 days of their respective start 
dates and receive a refund of anything shed paid up to that point. So on balance, Im 
satisfied she was given sufficient information and time to reflect on what shed been told by 
the adviser. Under these circumstances, I cant fairly say Lloyds pressured her into taking 
out the policies. Mrs C says she wasnt made aware that shed still be required to pay for the policies into her 
90s. But I can see the Key Features document under Your commitment says: make 
regular monthly direct debit payments until you reach age 90. And under another section 
it says, Premiums for this benefit no longer need to be paid once you reach age 90, 
however the benefit will continue. So I think this element of the policy was made reasonably 
clear to Mrs C at the time of sale.
Finally, as Mrs C points out, there are some factual inaccuracies in the fact finds prepared by 
the adviser. For example, her son is referred to as her grandson. But overall, I dont think 
these mistakes affect the suitability of the advice. Her only dependent child was her son 
and her documented objective was to cover the cost of her funeral so that her family, which 
included her wider family as well as her children, had the financial support to pay for her 
funeral in a way she wanted. On this basis, Im satisfied the policies met her requirements.   
For all these reasons, while I know Mrs C will be disappointed with this outcome, I wont be 
upholding her complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman