DRN-3340922
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, treated him unfairly by 
recording information about him on fraud prevention databases following a mortgage 
application.
What happened
In 2018, Mr D applied for a mortgage of around £411,000 plus fees, with Virgin Money. A 
mortgage offer was provided but then revoked and Virgin Money entered markers in his 
name with two fraud prevention agencies  National Hunter and CIFAS. 
Later, Mr D applied for a mortgage through a broker but was declined. He found out about 
the markers and complained to Virgin Money. It declined to remove the markers and so he 
brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the matter and recommended that Virgin Money remove the 
CIFAS marker, but not the National Hunter marker. Virgin Money agreed to remove the 
CIFAS marker and downgraded the National Hunter entry from fraud to inconsistency. 
Mr D remained unhappy with this outcome as he says the information he provided in his 
application was accurate and correct and asked an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the complaint.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
As the CIFAS marker has now been removed and the National Hunter marker 
downgraded to inconsistency - all that remains for me to decide is whether, based 
on the information now available, it would be fair for Virgin Money to remove the 
marker with National Hunter. 
National Hunter defines an inconsistency status as a clear discrepancy between 
information provided by the consumer and information found, or not able to be found 
or verified elsewhere. I think that there were clear inconsistencies in the information 
provided at the time of the application. And with these inconsistencies in mind, I dont 
think that Virgin Money acted unfairly when it applied the marker in 2018. 
So Ive gone on to consider if, with the new information that Mr D has since provided, 
it would be fair for Virgin Money to now remove the marker. On balance, I think these 
inconsistencies have now been explained. Virgin Money was not able to confirm the 
salary Mr D declared with Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC), but this has 
since been explained by his accountant that there was an issue with his tax code. 
And not being able to verify the information in this way is not - in isolation - a reason 
to enter a marker. 
Ive kept in mind that the income information declared in the application form is 
consistent with the other the evidence provided  namely Mr Ds payslips and bank 
statements. 
As Virgin Money was willing to remove the CIFAS marker and now these 
inconsistencies have been explained, I think that the rationale for the National Hunter 
marker to remain falls away  regardless of the fact that it has been downgraded. 
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair for the marker to now be 
removed.
Responses to my provisional decision
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. Virgin Money said that it has amended the 
National Hunter marker from Inconsistencies to Clear. Mr D provided further insight as to 
the impact the presence of the marker had.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought again about what I said in my provisional decision. In light of the fact that it was 
accepted by both parties, I see no reasons to change my mind. 
Putting things right
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that the marker 
should now be removed.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Clydesdale Bank plc, trading as 
Virgin Money, to remove the marker with National Hunter in connection with the 2018 
mortgage application.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman