DRN-2234542
The complaint
Ms H and Mr H have complained about a bridging loan they took out in April 2019 with 
Social Money Limited (trading as The BridgeCrowd).
We have two separate complaints about this loan, this one relates to the period up until the 
loan term ended in April 2020. For ease I will use the same four bullet point complaint 
headings as our investigator, which is that Ms H and Mr H say:
they were not given notice prior to the loan expiry date;
the fees charged were excessive;
they feel that they were purposely not made aware of the loan expiring; and
they are unhappy with the business' complaint procedures.
What happened
Ms H and Mr H took out a bridging loan on 12 April 2019 with Social Money. The loan was 
secured as a second charge against a buy-to-let (BTL) investment property they owned.
The bridging loan facility was £94,000, which was made up of:
£73,324 net release
£2,820 arrangement fee
£350 administration fee
£1,150 loan management fee
£16,356 retained interest
In addition, Ms H and Mr H had to pay Social Moneys legal fees of £1,540 plus VAT and 
disbursements, and their own legal costs.
The loan was set up with a maximum term of 12 months.
When the loan term ended on 12 April 2020 Ms H and Mr H hadnt repaid it, so the loan was 
classed as being in default under the terms of the loan agreement.
I wont go any further with the background, as the events after that point come under our 
other complaint reference.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms H and Mr Hs complaint. Ms H and Mr H didnt agree and 
so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I move onto my findings on the individual points, I need to correct something Ms H 
and Mr H have said. Contrary to their belief, this wasnt  and could never have been  a 
regulated loan.
Ms H has said she used part of the money to repay mortgage arrears on her residential 
property, to try to override the fact she and Mr R signed a clear declaration that they were 
going to use the money for business purposes, and the warnings about the contract being 
unregulated due to that. But shes overlooked something else.
 
What is known as limited payment second charge bridging loans arent regulated. The 
limited payment refers to the fact the consumer has to make no more than four payments 
under the contract (which was the case here), and the paperwork shows this was a second 
charge as it ranked behind the charge another lender already held on the BTL property in 
question. So putting aside all the other arguments, this could never have been a regulated 
mortgage contract because it was a limited payment second charge bridging loan which 
had been secured against Ms H and Mr Hs BTL property and these are exempt from 
regulation irrespective of the purpose of the funds.
not given notice prior to the loan expiry date
Ill include bullet points one and three in this section:
they were not given notice prior to the loan expiry date; and
they feel that they were purposely not made aware of the loan expiring.
They are, in effect, about the same thing as if notice had been given then point three falls 
away. Point three just relates to what Ms H and Mr H believe Social Moneys motivation for 
point one was.
Whilst I understand the points Ms H and Mr H have made, put simply Social Money didnt 
have to send them a reminder of the end date of the loan. The loan contract Ms H and Mr H 
entered into the year before explained that it was for a maximum of twelve months, and what 
would happen if the debt wasnt repaid in that time. It was Ms H and Mr Hs responsibility to 
repay the loan when it fell due, not Social Moneys responsibility to remind them of that fact. 
In any event it seems irrelevant that Social Money didnt remind Ms H and Mr H of the 
deadline when the loan was coming to an end, as even after they were told eight days after 
the loan end date  that is on 21 April 2020  that theyd missed the deadline they still didnt 
repay the loan. So, if a warning had been given in the weeks running up to the loan expiry 
date, it seems most likely it wouldnt have been repaid anyway, otherwise it makes no sense 
why Ms H and Mr H didnt repay the loan the week after it expired when they were told of 
that fact. Indeed, the last update we had was in November 2020 and at that point the loan 
still hadnt been repaid in full.
For any loan that isnt repaid on time there is a risk to a lender that it wont get back all of the 
money it is due, so it isnt in a lenders interests generally for a loan to default in that way 
even if it is charging a higher default rate of interest. Im sure Social Money would much 
rather its customers paid back the money theyd borrowed in full and on time, as that would 
make it easier for it to run its business efficiently, knowing what money it will be receiving and when so it can arrange to either re-lend that money out to another consumer, or to 
return the funds to its investors.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Ms H and Mr Hs complaint.
fees charged
The fees for the loan were set out in the facility agreement. The fees for second charge 
bridging loans like this are often higher than for regulated mortgage contracts due to the 
higher level of risk to the lender. Ive looked at the fees that are generally charged in the 
unregulated limited payment second charge bridging loan market and Im satisfied that the 
fees charged by Social Money are broadly in line with other lenders. They will never be the 
same across all lenders as it is an open market. If Ms H and Mr H werent happy with the 
fees Social Money was going to charge them for this bridging loan then they had the option 
to look elsewhere for the funding they wanted.
Im satisfied the fees werent excessive for the type of lending this was, and that they were 
disclosed in a readily understandable manner before Ms H and Mr H entered into the 
contract. For that reason I dont uphold this part of Ms H and Mr Hs complaint.
complaint procedures
Finally, Ms H and Mr H have said Social Money hasnt got a complaints procedure. It isnt 
clear why they thought this, as a procedure was in place.
I understand Social Money provided Ms H and Mr H with a copy of the complaints procedure 
with its final response to their complaint, so I assume this answers their concerns in this 
regard.
If it doesnt, then I need to explain that the handling of complaints is not itself a regulated 
activity. Its something that the regulator requires financial businesses to do. But that isnt 
enough to make it a regulated activity within the meaning of the rule; that is, one from the list 
of activities set out in the legislation from which we derive our powers. 
Were able to consider concerns about complaint handling in some limited circumstances, 
but there is another thing that we need to consider and that is that we can only make an 
award for any poor customer service in handling a complaint if were upholding the 
underlying issue being complained about and it is intrinsically linked. As Im not upholding 
Ms H and Mr Hs complaint, then it follows I cant uphold any complaint and award any 
compensation for how their complaint was handled.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Ms H and Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman