DRN-3825236
The complaint
Mr F complains that TSB Bank plc registered his address incorrectly and harassed him when 
he complained to them.
What happened
Mr F says that the way his address was initially formatted when he opened an account using 
the TSB website was incorrect, even though he correctly input the address. Mr F visited a 
TSB branch to have this amended, however, there was a spelling mistake in the address. Mr 
F complained to TSB.
TSB partially upheld Mr Fs complaint. They said that when opening an account online, the 
address details were provided by Mr F and were automatically populated into a format. They 
said as the details were input by Mr F himself, they were unable to uphold this part of his 
complaint. 
TSB said that when Mr F visited the branch, the reformatting of his address had to be 
completed manually and the member of staff who changed his address made a human error 
by making a spelling mistake in one of the words in Mr Fs address. TSB said that when they 
attempted to amend his address, their system was unable to locate Mr Fs address in the 
correct format, therefore it needed to be keyed in manually. TSB said they credited £25 to Mr 
Fs account to apologise for the distress and inconvenience of this.
Mr F brought his complaint to our service. He said that TSB had bombarded him with text 
messages, missed calls and voicemail messages for three full days while they tried to 
contact him to discuss his complaint, which bordered on harassment and caused him 
embarrassment at work and in a number of meetings. He said that as he wrote to TSB, he 
would expect to be contacted by them via the same method. Mr F said that his response 
from TSB was insulting as they initially accused him of causing the address format problem, 
but TSB later admitted further on in the response that their own systems were unable to 
correctly format his address. 
Mr F said the £25 compensation was also insulting particularly in view of the harassment he 
received by the text messages, phone calls and voicemails he received over several days. 
Mr F said that an incorrect address could affect his credit rating and this could have affected 
the interest rate he received on two balance transfer credit cards he applied for in the weeks 
after opening his TSB account, as he didnt receive the headline rates advertised.  
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Fs complaint. He said certain systems will have
different formats for addresses to be entered. He said it was evident from the information 
TSB provided us that their staff member had misspelt part of Mr Fs address. He said whilst 
this is a clear error, he accepted it was a human error and Mr Fs address details were 
corrected, an apology offered, and he was provided with £25 compensation for the error 
which our investigator thought was fair. Our investigator said that he didnt think that without 
any further evidence that Mr Fs credit card applications wouldve been impacted as a result 
of a very slight discrepancy with the spelling of his address details.
Mr F asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. He made a number of points. In 
summary, he said that since he has had issues with his address before, which included 
correspondence which went missing, he takes great care when entering the details of his 
address, especially if he is applying for financial services. After he opened his account with 
TSB he printed off a statement via their online banking, only to see his address wasnt 
displayed in the correct format. As he was so concerned about this he took the time and 
trouble to visit his local branch to see if someone could put things right, however, their 
employee did not get this right, which disadvantaged him further. 
Mr F said that TSB should have replied in the same format as he complained to them and he 
would have expected a letter of response back. Mr F told us of a health condition he suffers 
from which explains why he didnt want to speak to TSB over the phone. He wanted £150 
compensation for the events that happened.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Mr F has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
I must explain to Mr F that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity and as
such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how TSB have investigated his complaint, 
such as the format they choose to communicate their final response and the different 
methods of contact prior to sending a response, dont come under my powers to consider. 
For ease of readability, Ive documented my decision in three sections below. Mr Fs original 
application, the amending of his address and the potential impact on his credit card 
applications/customer service.
The original application
Ive looked at the journey that Mr F would have had when opening his account online. TSB 
have said that the information they received on the application was input by Mr F and Ive 
seen no evidence to counteract this. But he would not be responsible for how this 
information would be populated. So Ive had a look at why the information was populated in 
the way that it was. 
The online application asks for a postcode and then there is a button to find an address. But 
the one address which is displayed for Mr Fs postcode does not show the address that Mr F 
specifically lives in, so he would need to click on the enter the address manually button. 
This lists a number of fields such as house number, house name, flat number etc. 
The information on the webpage maps over to TSBs internal systems. TSB have provided 
me what Mr F completed. The evidence shows that this is displayed in a different format to 
how Mr F would prefer it to be showing as he entered the house (building) number in the flat 
(sub building) field. I know that Mr F would strongly dispute this, but Im satisfied that the 
evidence shows this. So Im not persuaded that TSB made any errors here.
Amending the address
Ive considered what happened when Mr F told TSB that his address was not in the format 
that it should be. While Ive documented above why Im persuaded this was not TSBs fault, 
given what hes said about how hes had issues with his address previously, Im satisfied 
that Mr F will have stressed the importance of a correct address to the branch staff. As this was clearly important to Mr F, I would expect the branch staff to take extra care to 
ensure that the format of the address and all of the information on the address was correct, 
especially as it was displayed incorrectly initially (even though Im not persuaded this was 
TSBs fault). 
But this didnt happen. TSB explained in their final response letter to Mr F that the branch 
staff had to manually enter the address (in the same way Mr F would have needed to do at 
the application stage , due to the address not showing on the drop down list) and as a result 
of this, the branch staff made a human error in misspelling part of his address.
TSB apologised for this and they paid Mr F £25 for this. But Im not persuaded that this 
recognises the impact that this would have on him. As Ive already explained, the reason 
why Mr F went to the branch is because the address was not displayed in the format he 
wanted it to be. So when the branch staff changed this but did not display the correct 
spelling, then this would have distressed Mr F, especially as TSB have told me they sent a 
statement to him with the incorrect spelling. 
Mr F wouldve also been inconvenienced as he would need to take further action to ensure 
the mistakes were corrected. And Im not persuaded that £25 fully reflects the impact that 
this would have had on him, even though Im persuaded that this was human error. So Ill set 
out at the end of my decision how TSB should put things right here.
Potential impact on credit card applications/customer service 
Mr F has provided our service with his credit file. And while I can see the credit file does 
show two previous searches from TSB under the incorrect address, Im not persuaded this 
would have been the sole reason he would not have been accepted for a headline rate of 
interest on other credit agreements and Ill explain why.
I can see that a number of other records in the previous searches section also display an 
address different to the address he has told us is his correctly formatted address. Some of 
these records include the company in which Mr F applied for two credit cards and didnt get 
offered the headline rates of interest. So Im persuaded that if the company he applied for 
the credit cards didnt display his address accurately, then I cant say it was how TSB 
displayed his address which would be solely at fault for him not getting the headline rate of 
interest. 
Mr Fs TSB account shows in the credit account information section under the correctly 
formatted address. And there are no TSB entries under the linked address section. But there 
are a number of factors which go into assessing what rate of interest an applicant is given if 
their application is approved. And the credit file shows more than one example of adverse 
credit information, which is likely to have a larger factor on what rate of interest is offered as 
opposed to previous searches that companies have made. So I cant say that TSB would 
solely be responsible for him not getting the headline rate.
Ive considered what Mr F has said about the harassment of the texts/calls and voicemails 
from TSB. As Ive previously mentioned, I cant look into the methods they choose to use to 
communicate with someone to discuss their complaint, but I have considered whether this 
led to harassment as Mr F has described it. But Im not persuaded what happened here 
was excessive or that TSB were harassing him and Ill explain why. 
TSB have sent me a screenshot of their system which shows the contact attempts to Mr F. 
This shows they sent Mr F a text message on 22 February at 14:03 to let him know they 
were going to call him about his complaint. They then attempted to ring him at 14:06 and 
then at 16:48. Then, as they hadnt been able to speak to him, on 23 February, at 08:11 they sent him a text to let him know they would try and ring him to talk about his complaint, which 
they rang him at 08:14. They then sent him their final response at 13:55. While the 
screenshot shows another text message they sent Mr F at 13:56, this was unrelated to the 
events which are being complained about here. 
So Im not persuaded that three attempted calls at different times over two different days 
would class as harassment, even if a voicemail was left after the calls. I can understand why 
a business may issue a text message before they attempt to ring a customer so that the 
customer knows the call is genuinely from the bank. I can understand why these texts and 
phone calls may have been frustrating for Mr F to receive, especially as he has detailed his 
circumstances when he received them. And I can understand why, given what Mr F has told 
us, that he would not want to speak to TSB on the phone. But Im not persuaded that the 
attempted contact was excessive. 
Mr F might want to contact TSB if he wants to inform them that he doesnt want to speak to 
them on the phone in the future so they can update their records accordingly and provide 
him tailored support if necessary. 
As I mentioned earlier, Im not persuaded that the £25 compensation recognises the impact 
that the branch staff incorrectly amending Mr Fs address would have on him. He had made 
a visit to the branch with the purpose of changing the address into his preferred format. So 
he would have believed that after his branch visit his address would have been displayed 
perfectly. But even when the format was changed, the spelling was incorrect which would 
have distressed Mr F. And a bank statement was sent out with the incorrect spelling. I asked 
TSB if they had received any returned mail for Mr F and they confirmed they hadnt, and they 
sent me a screenshot of the notes to evidence they hadnt. So it doesnt appear the incorrect 
spelling led to his statement going to an incorrect address, but this doesnt mean that there 
was no impact on Mr F. 
Mr F wouldve also been inconvenienced as he would need to take further action to ensure 
the mistake was corrected. So Im not persuaded that £25 fully reflects the impact that this 
would have had on him, even though Im satisfied that this was a result of human error. So 
Ive considered what compensation would be reasonable for TSB to pay Mr F. 
Mr F has asked for £150 compensation for what happened. I must explain that 
compensation is a discretionary remedy that we sometimes award if we feel that a business 
has acted wrongfully and therefore caused distress and inconvenience to their customer 
over and above that which naturally flows from the event. When we recommend 
compensation, it is often modest and within our established guidelines.
Im persuaded that an extra £50 compensation is fair here to total £75. Im satisfied it 
recognises the impact of the distress the incorrect address would have had on Mr F and the 
inconvenience of him having to take action to ensure this was corrected, especially after he 
had already made a visit to the branch to ensure his address was displayed correctly. So it 
follows I intend to ask TSB to put things right for Mr F.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. TSB accepted the provisional decision. Mr F said there were no final points he 
would like to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I said I intend to ask 
TSB Bank plc to pay Mr F a further £50 for distress and inconvenience. Im still satisfied this 
is a fair outcome for the reasons given previously.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. TSB Bank plc should settle the 
complaint in line with the instructions in the putting things right section above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman