DRN-2574851
The complaint
Mr S complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided his motor insurance 
policy because he hadnt disclosed information about driving offences. 
What happened
Mr S first took out his car insurance with Calpe through an insurance broker in November 
2017. He renewed his policy in 2018 and 2019. He added his partner, Ms J, to the policy in 
July 2019. Ms J was involved in a road accident in February 2020, and Mr S made a claim 
under his car insurance. 
While assessing the claim, Calpe discovered that both Mr S and Ms J had penalty points on 
their licences that they hadnt disclosed. It said Mr S had answered the question it asked 
about driving convictions incorrectly. Calpe considered this to be a deliberate or reckless 
qualifying misrepresentation which allowed it to avoid his policy, decline his claim, and keep 
the premiums hed paid. 
Mr S complained to this service. He said hed simply renewed his policy without reviewing 
the policy documents. He also explained that English wasnt his first language and he didnt 
understand the difference between driving convictions and accidents. He doesnt think Calpe 
is being fair in cancelling the policy and would like it to settle his claim.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He agreed that Mr S 
hadnt disclosed his or Ms Js driving convictions and that this was a qualifying 
misrepresentation. But he didnt think this was deliberate or reckless; instead, he believed it 
was careless. He asked Calpe to reinstate the policy and consider the claim. If Calpe 
decided to settle the claim, it should either do so proportionately or in full if Mr S made up the 
premium shortfall.
Calpe disagreed with our investigators recommendation. In summary, it said:
Mr S misrepresented the insurance risk twice: first, when he added Ms J to the policy 
in July 2019; second, at renewal in November 2019.
Both misrepresentations were deliberate or reckless, not careless.
Failing to read renewal documents isnt a reasonable excuse.
The distinction between motoring convictions and accidents in the documents is 
clear. 
Mr Ss explanation for not understanding this distinction didnt make sense.
Calpe asked for an ombudsman decision, so the case was passed to me.
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this on 5 January 2021. I said:
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms  or not at all  if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out several considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Calpe says Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
added Ms J to the policy in July 2019, and again at renewal in November 2019. It sent us the 
findings of its checks following Ms Js accident. These show:
Mr S was caught speeding in both April and June 2018. He received three penalty 
points for each offence. 
Ms J had been caught speeding in June 2017. She received three penalty points. 
Ms J had a separate driving conviction from November 2016. She received six 
penalty points for this. These points expired in November 2019, however the offence 
wasnt removed from her licence until November 2020. 
Im satisfied that Mr S didnt have any points on his licence when he took out the policy in 
2017. So Ive looked at the questions Calpe asked Mr S in July and November 2019 to 
decide whether he took reasonable care in answering them. 
I can see that the online chat function Mr S used to add Ms J to the policy in July 2019 didnt 
explicitly ask him about driving convictions. On balance, I can accept Mr Ss explanation that 
he wasnt asked about Ms Js convictions when he added her to the policy.
However, I think the documents sent to Mr S at renewal in November 2019 were clear. For 
example:
The final paragraph on page 1 of the letter from Mr Ss broker says, Please read all 
pages of this document and tell us before the renewal date if any of your 
circumstances have changed, or if you or any other driver included on this policy has 
had an accident, loss or conviction during the past 12 months.
Page 4 of the same letter says, Examples of material information which should be 
disclosed to us include any convictions for any driver (including pending or fixed 
penalty offences).
Section 6 of Mr Ss November 2019 insurance statement (Insurance History) has a 
section for motoring convictions. The definition of motoring convictions includes 
driving licence endorsements, fixed penalty offences which you or any other 
person who will drive have incurred in the last 5 years.
Section 2 of the Conditions in the policy booklet says, Please tell Your broker 
immediately... Of any motoring or criminal convictions (including penalty points, fixed 
penalties, speed camera offences and disqualifications) in respect of You or any 
person permitted to drive under this Policy.
Section 2 also says, Please tell Your Broker immediately of any motoring or criminal 
convictions (including penalty points, fixed penalties, speed camera offences and 
disqualifications) in respect of You or any person permitted to drive under this 
Policy.Im satisfied that Calpe asked Mr S whether he or Ms J had any driving convictions, including 
penalty points. Mr S didnt disclose his or Ms Js points, so Im satisfied that this was a 
misrepresentation. 
Next, I need to consider if the misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation. In other 
words, did it make a difference?
Calpes 12 February 2020 letter to Mr S said, It is now known by the Insurer that you and 
the Named Driver [Ms J] have motoring convictions which you failed to disclose. This has 
resulted in you obtaining a policy which had we been made aware, the policy would have 
been offered at a higher premium. 
It referred to Section 7 of Mr Ss policy (Inaccurate or Misleading Information). This says,
When asked, if You or anyone acting on Your behalf misleads or fails to accurately 
answer questions which affect either the terms and conditions or the premium of this 
Insurance or Underwriters accepting Your cover, including motoring convictions We or 
the Underwriters may Immediately avoid Your Policy from the start date of the Policy. If Your 
Policy is avoided as a result of section 7 Underwriters will not pay any claim and in certain 
circumstances may retain any premiums paid.
I accept Calpes explanation that it would still have insured Mr S, but his premiums would 
have been higher. This means Im satisfied that the policy would have been offered on 
different terms, so the misrepresentation was a qualifying one.
Calpe said Mr Ss misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. It argued that Mr S was 
aware of the convictions, therefore he recklessly or deliberately provided incorrect 
information and misrepresented the insurance risk. In short, Calpe believes Mr S deliberately 
misled it.
Our investigator asked Mr S why he didnt disclose the convictions or penalty points. Mr S 
told us that:
he wasnt asked about Ms Js convictions when he added her to the policy;
he renewed the policy without checking the documents in both 2018 and 2019;
he couldnt remember if hed read the reminder to disclose any change in 
circumstances;
he believed motoring convictions meant accidents, not penalty points; and
he got quotes from other insurers where the premium was the same even when he 
entered his penalty points.
I dont think Mr Ss explanations are reasonable. The policy documents ask explicit 
questions about driving licence endorsements and fixed penalty notices. Mr S had a 
responsibility to review these documents and tell Calpe if anything was incorrect. 
I understand that English isnt Mr Ss first language. But I dont think this means its ok for 
him to ignore the questions asked by his insurer, or not to ask for help if he didnt understand 
them. Similarly, I dont accept that not reading the policy documents is a reasonable excuse 
for not meeting its terms. 
Even allowing for language difficulties, Im not sure why Mr S would think that motoring 
convictions would mean the same thing as accidents. The policy booklet separates them into 
two different sections: Accidents and losses in one, Motoring convictions in another. 
The answers given by Mr S in these sections are different. Accidents and losses lists accidents in September 2017 and April 2018; Motoring convictions states None. Im not 
sure why Mr S would have provided different answers to the two questions if he thought they 
were asking the same thing.
Finally, I think any reasonable person  whatever their first language  would understand 
that its important for an insurance company to know about driving offences (including 
speeding tickets and penalty points) when it offers a quote for car insurance. And I dont 
really understand why Mr S would have included these details when he got quotes from 
other insurers but didnt think he needed to tell his existing insurer.
Taking all this into account, I find that Mr Ss misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, 
rather than careless.
Ive looked at the actions Calpe can take in accordance with CIDRA. Where a qualifying 
misrepresentation is reckless, an insurer can treat the policy as void. So Im satisfied Calpe 
was entitled to avoid Mr Ss policy. And, as this means that  in effect  Mr Ss policy never 
existed, Calpe doesnt have to deal with his claim about Ms Js accident.
For the reasons above, at this stage I think Calpe acted fairly and reasonably in avoiding Mr 
Ss policy, retaining his premium, and not settling his claim.
Responses to my provisional decision
Calpe accepted my findings and didnt have anything more to add.
Mr S didnt reply to my provisional decision.
My findings
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint for the reasons given in my provisional 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Simon Begley
Ombudsman