DRN-3192716
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined a 
claim they made on their Buildmark building warranty policy.
  
What happened
Mr and Mrs M purchased a new apartment, which is covered by a ten-year building warranty 
policy. Within the first two years of the cover, they made a claim due to the pooling of water 
on their balcony.
The developer is responsible for putting right defects that are identified during the first two 
years of the policy. However, NHBC became responsible for Mr and Mrs Ms claim, under 
the contract of insurance, because the developer failed to comply with NHBCs resolution 
service recommendations.
NHBC had concluded there was a defect, hence its recommendations to the developer. But 
after taking responsibility for the claim, NHBC then changed its position. NHBC said there 
wasnt a defect, on the basis the drainage and falls were acceptable.
Before the claim was declined, between 2016 and 2018, NHBC had paid Mr and Mrs M £550 
compensation. This was largely due to delays. Those complaints werent brought to our 
service in time, so that period isnt something Im considering here.
After the claim was declined, NHBC offered Mr and Mrs M a further £2,000 compensation. 
This was on the basis that, in 2016, it had incorrectly concluded there was a defect. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy, so they referred a complaint to our service. Our 
investigator made the following findings:
- He noted the reports and photos showed there was rainwater permanently pooling 
under the balcony floor slabs. He wasnt persuaded NHBCs performance standard 
for rainwater drainage was being met. So, he concluded, as per the policy terms, 
there was a defect (which is covered under the section of the policy that applies). 
- The balcony forms the roof of the apartment below. He also noted the performance 
standard in question requires flat roofs to have a fall of not less than 1:40, and the 
membrane had been found to be level.
- He accepted the membrane would perform with ponding (and there hadnt been any 
water ingress into Mr and Mrs Ms property, or the property below). But he was still 
satisfied there was a defect, i.e. he didnt consider there to be adequate rainwater 
disposal. So, he thought NHBC should accept the claim.
- He agreed with NHBC, that the claim was for a common part of the building, which 
could have implications for how NHBC settles the claim.
- He thought the £2,000 compensation for the further delays and inconvenience, was 
fair.
NHBC accepted our investigators outcome, but it said it was unclear on how the claim is to 
be settled. Mr and Mrs M were happy our investigator had found the claim should succeed, 
but they disagreed the claim was for a common part of the building. They also noted the 
£2,000 compensation was for delays up to 2019, and theres since been further delay.
Because Mr and Mrs M disagreed with parts of our investigators findings, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NHBC has now accepted that the water pooling on Mr and Mrs Ms balcony is a defect. So, 
I dont need to make a finding about this.
The issues that remain are whether the claim is for a common part of the building, how the 
claim should be settled, and what compensation should be paid. Ill address these in turn.
Common part
The claim is for the drainage of water on Mr and Mrs Ms balcony. So, in my mind, there are 
two elements to consider  the balcony and the drainage.
The policy terms define common parts as: 
- any of the following for which the Owner is legally obliged to share responsibility 
for cost and upkeep with the Owners of other Homes covered by Buildmark (or 
similar cover that we may issue):
a. the parts of a building containing or providing support to a flat or maisonette;
b. 
c. any drainage system serving your Home;
d. 
Ive not included b or d from the above definition, as I dont consider them to be relevant to 
this complaint.
So, the first point to determine is whether the claim involves parts of the building that come 
under a or c. If so, the second point is whether Mr and Mrs M share responsibility for the 
cost and upkeep of those parts with the other apartment owners in the block.
In respect of c, Mr M argued there isnt an issue with the drainage system, but rather, the 
issue is the water isnt reaching the drainage system as there isnt a suitable fall. However, 
our investigator concluded the purpose of the membrane is to resist the passage of water 
into the property below whilst it drains away, so he found this to be part of the drainage 
system. He also highlighted that the performance standard being relied upon has 
drainage in its name.Overall, I agree with the conclusions of our investigator, for the same reasons. The purpose 
of the fall and membrane, as I understand it, is to ensure water drains away. Also, its not 
reasonable, in my view, to determine the issue is a defect because theres a breach of 
NHBCs drainage performance standard, but yet conclude the defect isnt part of the 
drainage system. I understand Mr and Mrs M have already accepted this point.
I dont necessarily consider the membrane or fall to be part of the various drainage services 
referred to in the lease agreement. But nevertheless, Im persuaded that these items ought 
reasonably to be considered part of the drainage system under the policy terms.
In any event, regardless of the issue being one of drainage, as I understand it the balcony is 
a continuous structure that forms the balcony of more than one property, and the roof of the 
apartments below. Therefore, in respect of a, Im satisfied the balcony is a part of the 
building that contains, or provides support to, a flat.
So, this means, Im satisfied that under the policy, the claim is for a defect to a common part, 
providing the responsibility for the repair is shared between some or all of the apartment 
owners, i.e. the leaseholders. Ive referred to the lease agreement to determine the 
responsibilities.
The lease defines premises, common parts of the building and building. The premises 
are defined as the flat shown edged red on Plan number 1. The lease also lists what the 
premises do and dont include. The commons parts of the building definition lists various 
areas and services. The building definition includes the premises and common parts.
As per clause 5.3 of the lease agreement, the landlord covenants to:
- maintain, repair, redecorate, renew and (in the event in the Landlords reasonable 
opinion such works are required) improve 
(a) the load bearing framework and all other structural parts of the Building, the roof, 
 and all parts of the Building which are not the responsibility of the Leaseholder 
under this Lease  
(c) the Common Parts of the building ... 
Whilst the leaseholder, on the other hand, covenants:
-To refund to the Landlord on demand (where Outgoings relate to the whole or part of 
the Building or other property including the Premises) a fair and proper proportion 
attributable to the Premises, such proportion to be conclusively determined by the 
Landlord (who shall act reasonably) 
-To pay the Service Charge in accordance with Clause 7 (Service Charge 
Provisions)
The service charge provisions and related definitions set out the following:
- The service charge definition includes the Specified Proportion of the Building 
Service Provision
- The specified proportion of the building service provision is defined as  a fair and 
reasonable proportion (to be assessed by the Landlords surveyor) of the elements 
of the Service Provision in relation to the costs incurred for the Building.- The service provision includes:
(a) the costs of and incidental to the performance of the Landlords covenants 
contained in   Clause 5.3 
(d) any Outgoings assessed, charged, imposed or payable on or in respect of the 
whole of the Building or in the whole or any part of the Common Parts of the 
Building.
In my view, its reasonably clear from the parts of the lease Ive quoted, that the landlord is 
responsible for the structural elements and common parts of the building; and the related 
upkeep costs are recovered from the leaseholders by way of the service charge. So, the 
question that remains is whether the balcony is a structural element, or common part of 
the building, under the lease.
The commons parts definition doesnt expressly include balconies. However, it does include 
 other parts of the Building which are intended to be or are capable of being enjoyed by 
some or all of the owners tenants and occupiers of other premises in the Building. 
Clearly, Mr and Mrs Ms private balcony area isnt intended to be used by the occupiers of 
other premises. However, as noted, its a continuous structure that forms their neighbours 
balcony, with the private areas simply separated by a dividing fence. So, in my view, the 
continuous balcony is a part of the building thats enjoyed by the occupiers of multiple 
premises, and it falls within the common parts definition within the lease.
Equally, the premises definition doesnt expressly include balconies. But the definition does 
expressly exclude the load bearing framework and all other structural parts of the Building 
and the roof, foundations, joists and externals wall of the Building. 
Ive not seen anything that leads me to believe the balcony isnt loadbearing or a structural 
part of the building. Furthermore, the balcony forms the roof of the apartments below, and 
roofs are excluded from the premises definition.
Also, throughout the lease, it refers to balconies being attached to the premises, or 
accessible from them, rather than being part of them. 
Im mindful that the leaseholder covenants to repair and keep the Premises (and the floor of 
the balcony ) in good and substantial repair and condition . But equally, the leaseholder 
also covenants not to: (a) make any alterations or additions to the exterior of the Premises 
or any balcony attached to it . Whilst Im persuaded that a leaseholder has an obligation 
to keep their private balcony floor in good condition, in the context of the rest of the lease 
agreement, Im not persuaded they are responsible for significant repairs or alterations.
In response to our investigators findings, Mr and Mrs M agreed their balcony wasnt outlined 
in red on the plan. However, they noted its outlined in green and referred to as 'the external 
flat ownership boundaries'. They noted the premises definition includes rights granted by 
the lease, which includes: the right to use the private balcony or terrace (edged green on 
Plan 1 if any) accessible directly from the Premises for quiet relaxation only. As I understand it, Mr and Mrs M are of the view that the premises include the rights under 
the lease, and because the rights include use of the private balcony, the balcony is part of 
the premises. However, Im not persuaded thats a reasonable interpretation of the lease, 
or its intention. I say this because the listed rights include the use of common parts and 
communal roof terrace, but clearly, that doesnt make them part of the leaseholders 
premises, rather than a common part.
So, having considered the lease in the round, Im persuaded that its reasonable for NHBC to 
consider the balcony a common part, rather being part of Mr and Mrs Ms apartment. Ill set 
out what that might mean for the repairs and claim settlement, under the next heading.
Settling the claim
Our investigator didnt make a finding on how the claim should be settled. The parties have 
now agreed the defect is covered by the policy, but NHBC will now have to investigate the 
remedy. The claim settlement isnt something I can decide here, without the necessary 
investigations having taken place or the arguments presented about what each party 
propose.
The defect isnt causing any damage, albeit its affecting Mr and Mrs Ms enjoyment of their 
balcony. As I understand it, NHBC is concerned that a repair would be disproportionate if it 
invalidates the membranes warranty, given the membrane serves multiple properties.
Our investigator suggested that if NHBC didnt consider it could reasonably repair the defect, 
it may need to consider paying compensation to reflect the loss of enjoyment of the balcony. 
Understandably, Mr and Mrs M have explained that they wouldnt be happy with this, and 
they want the issue repaired. They say if NHBC isnt prepared to repair, they want the 
settlement to reflect the quote from a party who can do the repairs.
Mr and Mrs M have also questioned whether the membrane is on their balcony, due to the 
areas quoted on the membrane warranty. On the other hand, if the membrane is on their 
balcony, they question the validity of its warranty given their balcony hasnt received the 
required annual inspections. They also note the warrantys validity can be maintained if 
works are completed with the manufacturers approval. As such, Mr and Mrs M say the 
membrane warranty shouldnt prevent NHBC from completing repairs.
Ultimately, these are all issues that will need to be investigated by NHBC when considering 
the appropriate settlement. NHBC may need to engage with the manufacturer to determine 
what works are necessary and what works can be done. Its also clear from the lease that 
NHBC will need to engage with the landlord, as works to the balcony cant be undertaken 
without the landlords permission. 
If the claim were to be cash settled, Mr and Mrs M would need to engage with the landlord to 
have it comply with its repair obligations under clause 5.3. A cash settlement would also only 
likely reflect Mr and Mrs Ms share of the repair costs, as per the lease. My understanding of 
the lease is that its for the landlord to determine the share of each leaseholder, as opposed 
to there being a specific pre-determined percentage. If so, the parties will likely need to 
engage with the landlord about this.
In summary, what Ive decided here is that, having accepted theres a defect to the balcony 
which is covered by the policy, NHBC now needs to investigate how it can best settle the 
claim  bearing in mind its for a common part of the building.If, after those investigations, Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the proposed settlement, or if 
they are unhappy with those investigations, they can make a new complaint about that 
matter. 
Compensation
As explained by our investigator, this complaint only covers the period of 28 December 2018 
onwards. This is because the complaints about the periods before, werent referred to our 
service in time under the rules this service is bound by.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs M suffered considerable upset by having their claim declined 
by NHBC after it took responsibility for the repairs. I also accept that living with the balcony 
issue since December 2018, and pursuing the matter, has caused them a fair amount of 
inconvenience.
However, the £2,000 compensation offered by NHBC is broadly in-line with the sum I would 
have awarded for Mr and Mrs Ms experience, had NHBC not made this offer. As such, Im 
satisfied the offer is fair.
Given the delays so far, should Mr and Mrs M accept my final decision, I would reasonably 
expect NHBC to act promptly in respect of investigating the claim settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is National House-Building Council should:
- accept the common part claim for the defect to Mr and Mrs Ms balcony, in respect of 
the water pooling; and promptly investigate repair and settlement options; and
- pay Mr and Mrs M the previously offered £2,000 compensation (if it hasnt yet done 
so)
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman