DRN-4212954
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as F, complain that Handelsbanken plc treated their 
business unfairly, failing to honour its promises and forcing them to refinance and sell 
properties for less than they were worth. One of the partners also says that the bank bullied 
her and discussed the partnerships situation with her MP without permission.   
The partners are legally represented in bringing this complaint, but for ease of reading, Ill 
refer to any comments from their representative as being from F. 
What happened
In August 2017, Handelsbanken provided F with a three year term loan of £1.9 million to 
refinance existing borrowing. An overdraft facility was also in place.  
During 2018, the bank wrote to the partners more than once expressing its concerns 
regarding arrears, unpaid items and poor financial performance and its desire to see the 
partnership refinance elsewhere.  
In August 2020, F was unable to repay the loan when it expired. Handelsbanken agreed not 
to take immediate enforcement action while F pursued various property sales. The bank set 
F a deadline of 31 March 2021 to repay, later extending this to 30 June 2021.  
In July 2021, F completed the sale of one property, reducing its debt by £300,000. Other 
property sales were said to be imminent. The bank, through its legal representatives, said 
that it would need to begin legal action in the absence of further progress. 
In August 2021, another property sale was completed. In December 2021, Fs borrowing 
was repaid in full by refinancing the remaining balance with another lender. 
F made two formal complaints about the banks treatment of the partnership in July 2021. 
The bank didnt uphold these complaints. F asked the Financial Ombudsman to look into the 
matter in March 2022.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and concluded that the bank hadnt 
done anything wrong. She pointed out that the bank told the partnership it had concerns in 
2018, agreed multiple extensions after the loan matured and ultimately waited until 
December 2021 without making formal demand. 
F disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to issue a final decision. The 
partners made the following points, in summary: 
The loan was mis-sold at the start. It was never made clear that there was any 
expectation other than renewal at the end of the term. 
The debt was being fully serviced until the pandemic began and effectively shut down 
Fs trade. 
Our investigator had decided it was Handelsbankens right to decide whether to 
renew the lending or not. This wasnt quite the case, given that emergency 
Government pandemic legislation had made repossessing property unlawful at that 
time.
What the bank said in writing wasnt consistent with what they were saying verbally. 
This is why Fs partners appointed a lawyer. 
In conversations with Fs relationship manager (RM), one of the partners was 
frequently reduced to tears. 
Whilst putting pressure on F to achieve property sales, the bank had also obstructed 
these sales and caused delays. 
Handelsbanken had breached General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) by 
communicating with the partners MPs office before any partner had given their 
consent. The bank had also later told the MP that they were about to appoint 
receivers before they told the partners. 
The bank had given assurances that they wouldnt pursue exiting the relationship 
once the debt got below £1 million.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I will explain that I dont have the power to look into the circumstances of the sale of 
the original loan in 2017. This is because the partnership is a small business as defined by 
our rules and small businesses only became eligible to refer complaints to the Financial 
Ombudsman from 1 April 2019, and then only about events that occurred after 1 April 2019. 
Whilst I have reviewed correspondence from before 2019, in order to inform my 
understanding of the events that occurred later, I wont make any findings on the actions of 
the bank before this date. 
Did the bank treat F unfairly when its loan matured?
In reaching this decision, I have been mindful of the exceptional backdrop to the events 
here. I need to decide, not only if the banks actions were reasonable, but whether they were 
reasonable given the unprecedented nature of the pandemic, which completely shut down 
the type of business F operates for periods, as well as slowing down property sales 
generally. Based on what I have seen, I dont think it is fair to suggest that everything was in order with 
the banks facilities before the start of the pandemic in 2020. I say this because there is 
correspondence from the bank as far back as 2016 raising concerns regarding performance 
issues and its clear that in 2018, there had already been discussions about the need for 
property sales and refinancing elsewhere. So I dont think the pandemic was solely 
responsible for Fs problems, although I dont doubt that it exacerbated them. 
I think our investigator was correct to say that it was up to Handelsbanken to decide whether 
to renew the lending or not. The loan documentation made the expiry date clear and I think 
the banks letters were also clear that they wanted to be repaid, whether by property sales or 
a refinance or both. There was no contractual commitment to prolong the connection. 
That said, I would expect a bank to treat their customers fairly by giving them a reasonable 
amount of time in which to formulate and carry out a repayment plan  and with a pandemic 
going on, I think it would be fair to say that it might be appropriate to allow more leeway than 
normal. 
Im satisfied that Handelsbanken behaved responsibly and fairly after Fs loan matured. It 
made its desire to be repaid clear, but didnt take any immediate action, recognising that 
property sales were likely to be a prerequisite for a successful refinancing. It set a deadline 
of March 2021 and then extended this for a further three months, ultimately allowing more 
time beyond this too. I think this showed a reasonable degree of forbearance and I dont 
consider that it demanded unreasonable levels of updates or valuations. The lending was 
ultimately not repaid until December 2021, around sixteen months after the limits expired. 
I havent seen any evidence that the bank forced the partners to sell assets. As our 
investigator noted, the bank never made a formal demand, even when the loan was in 
default, and it never appointed receivers, although it mentioned doing so at various points. 
The correspondence suggests that it was Fs proposal to sell some of their properties to 
reduce their debt and the bank agreed to this proposal. 
F has pointed out that it would have been difficult, if not impossible, for the bank to call in its 
security during the pandemic, certainly for the properties occupied by family members. But I 
dont think this made it wrong for the bank to ask for repayment proposals. I appreciate that 
the partners would probably have preferred the bank just to accept the status quo until the 
pandemic ended and trading could make up for lost time, but the bank had no obligation to 
do so. Indeed, banks are expected to lend responsibly, so arguably, where the bank had 
clear concerns about a business, it would have been irresponsible to continue lending 
without asking the partnership to bring down its debt levels. 
A major thrust of the argument that the bank was treating the partnership unfairly rests, in 
my view, on the allegation that the bank was saying different things in face-to-face meetings 
from in its written correspondence. I can see that this is one of the reasons stated for 
instruction of the partners legal representative in the first place in August 2020. 
The partners seem to be alleging two somewhat contradictory behaviours on the part of the 
bank  on the one hand, that the RM adopted a bullying manner to one of the partners, often 
reducing her to tears  and on the other hand, that the bank was being more conciliatory in 
person, suggesting that a lending renewal might be possible and that the bank might stop 
putting F under pressure if the partnership got its borrowing below £1 million, only to say the 
opposite in writing. I cant know what was said at meetings, but I dont doubt that the bank declining to renew 
facilities created a very stressful situation for the main partner running the business, 
especially during the pandemic when there were enforced non-trading periods. But I havent 
seen any evidence aside from her lawyers recollections that the bank behaved 
inappropriately. There is a large amount of written correspondence in this case and I 
consider the vast majority of the banks letters to be very clear and to set out the banks 
position unequivocally. Everything Ive seen is in my view very professional in tone. Given 
this, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that the bank bullied one of the partners.  
I also havent seen any evidence that the bank unreasonably changed position or that its 
employees contradicted themselves. Banks are in any case entitled to change their appetite 
for lending over time. Just because a RM may have thought it likely that lending might be 
renewed when a facility began doesnt mean that this will be the case when it expires. In this 
instance though, I have seen evidence that the bank had concerns about F and their debt 
levels even before the loan renewal in 2017, so I dont think its likely that the banks RM 
ever indicated the bank was likely to renew. 
On the specific claim regarding the banks position once borrowing was below £1 million, I 
have not seen any evidence that the bank saw this as anything other than a necessary step 
to enable F to refinance elsewhere. Fs solicitors own Attendance Notes reflect this. 
Although there is a reference to leeway if the debt falls below £1 million, this is only in the 
context of further time to complete refinance negotiations. 
I am not persuaded that the bank put obstacles in the way of the completion of the property 
sales. I can see that there was a substantial miscommunication over the land, which the 
partners thought was unencumbered but actually turned out to be charged to the bank. But I 
dont think this miscommunication was Handelsbankens fault. F told them it was 
unencumbered land without identifying the actual land to which it referred. The bank took 
this at face value until later on when the land registry title was actually identified. I dont think 
an error was made by any party. In terms of other property sales, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the bank to want more details, for example, prices, before agreeing to 
release security. 
Did the bank act improperly in communications with the partners MP? 
I have also looked at Fs specific charge that the bank contravened GDPR regulations in its 
communications with an MPs office. It does appear that the bank has made an error here in 
initially speaking to the MPs office before getting the partners consent. Although the bank 
shouldnt have done that, I cant see that it caused any detriment or loss to the partners, who 
had presumably wanted the MP to get involved and were prepared to consent when asked 
(because they did so). So I dont think it would be fair for me to award any compensation for 
that error. 
Later, F says the bank spoke to the MPs office to inform them of their intention to appoint 
receivers before they had spoken to the partners. So the partners learnt of the banks 
intention from the MPs office rather than from the bank. Whilst I can agree that this isnt an 
ideal way of communicating such a significant decision, I think any distress caused was 
really caused by the news itself rather than the source from which it was delivered. So I dont 
think it warrants any compensation, particularly as the bank never in fact appointed 
receivers.  Summary
In summary, I dont doubt that the partners in this case have been through an extremely 
difficult time. But I have carefully considered all the evidence and I have not found that 
Handelsbanken acted unreasonably. I think it demonstrated enough forbearance and 
communicated clearly.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman