DRN-3043508
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) prevented them from accessing 
their investment accounts and were asked to visit the branch on multiple occasions to 
provide identity and address information.
Mr and Mrs M would like to be compensated for the trouble and upset caused by having to 
make repeated trips to the branch.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M have banked with HSBC for many years and hold investments with HSBC 
where they have a financial adviser. 
HSBC said that HSBC Channel Islands and Isle of Man asked Mr and Mrs M to provide up to 
date personal information including identity and address verification so that they could keep 
some investments active. HSBC say that they received passport details but didnt receive 
anything to confirm Mr and Mrs Ms address.
HSBC asked Mr and Mrs M to visit their branch with information that would allow them to 
verify their address. Mr and Mrs M visited the branch around the 27 January 2020 and said 
that they brought statements from various financial institutions. A representative from HSBC 
photocopied the statements but Mr and Mrs M were later told that the documentation had not 
been accepted.
On 24 April 2020, Mr and Mrs M received a letter from HSBC asking them to contact the 
bank. Mrs M called the bank but failed to answer some security questions correctly and her 
bank account was locked.
HSBC provided Mr and Mrs M with a telephone security number by post in order to resolve 
the bank account security issue.
Mr and Mrs M complained to HSBC about the service they had received. HSBC replied to 
the complaint and offered Mr and Mrs M £100 compensation in recognition for the trouble 
and upset caused by having to visit the branch.
Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with this amount and HSBC issued their final decision letter on 
14 June 2020 and increased the compensation amount to £150. 
Unhappy with HSBCs final offer, Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to the service and 
one of our investigators investigated the complaint. The investigator thought that HSBC had 
attempted to resolve the complaint and thought that the offer of compensation was fair and 
reasonable. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr and Mrs M have asked for an ombudsman to look 
at their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M but I agree with the outcome reached by the 
investigator and Im not going to uphold their complaint. I know that Mr and Mrs M feel 
strongly about their complaint and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
Mr and Mrs M are looking for redress and compensation for having to visit the branch to 
provide address documentation. They would also like the service to punish HSBC for what 
they think are failings by the bank.
The role of the service is to look and see if a business has done anything wrong and if it has, 
to put the consumer back into the position they would have been in had the error not 
occurred. The service doesnt have any powers to punish a business and it cant tell them 
how to run their operation. This is down to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority.
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about having to provide documentation to prove their identity 
and address. Mr and Mrs M are long standing clients of HSBC and I can understand their 
frustrations in having to prove who they are and where they live. Unfortunately, financial 
companies are bound by rules in relation to anti-money laundering and from time to time, 
they need to update their records.
In replying to Mr and Mrs M, HSBC acknowledge that Mr and Mrs M were inconvenienced by 
the request to provide address verification on more than one occasion and as a gesture, 
offered £150 compensation for the trouble and upset that this has caused.
I have looked at what Mr and Mrs M had to do to provide address verification and what 
HSBC have offered. I think the amount offered by HSBC is fair and reasonable and in line 
with what the service would recommend a business pay for trouble and upset caused. I 
know that Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed by this and although I understand their 
frustration, I think HSBC have acted fairly and Im not going to ask them to do anything else.
In their submission to the service, Mr and Mrs M have said that HSBC may require further 
address verification in future, and this will impact them again. As I have said previously, we 
cant tell HSBC how to run their business and it is down to them to determine what security 
measures they put in place. I hope Mr and Mrs M understand that Im not trying to dodge this 
issue, just that the service cant tell a business what to do and what documents they need to 
accept.
Mr and Mrs M also say that they were unable to take part in a corporate action and this 
caused them to miss an investment opportunity. I have reviewed the available 
documentation and I dont agree that HSBCs actions caused any direct loss.
Mr and Mrs M were aware that HSBC still required address verification at this point so I cant 
hold HSBC liable for any perceived loss. In their submission to the service, HSBC have said 
that Mr and Mrs M would be in the same position if no action was taken on the corporate 
action event. Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything further here.
In summary, I understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustrations as long-standing clients of HSBC, but 
I think they have offered a fair amount for the trouble and upset caused by Mr and Mrs M 
having to visit a branch on more than occasion.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman