DRN-3108144
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Zenith Insurance Plc (Zenith) have disclosed personal information to a 
third-party company and failed to deal with her claim for an accident that wasnt her fault. 
         
What happened
Mrs B bought a car insurance policy through company R which is underwritten by Zenith. R 
and their agents administered this car insurance policy and are acting on behalf of Zenith at 
all times.  
In August 2019 Mrs Bs car was hit by another car whilst stationary and in a car park. The 
third party left their details in a note. 
That afternoon, Mrs B contacted the company she believed to be R to advise of the claim. A 
few minutes later she received a call from a company that identified themselves as R, 
making arrangements for her recovery of her car. Mrs B was provided with a car for her to 
return home from her holidays and a hire car was then delivered to her home address. 
Mrs B says that she wasnt made aware that the call actually came from an introducer 
company C who then passed her details onto an accident management company S. She 
believed her claim was being dealt with by R or their agents. 
Mrs Bs car was then sent to the engineer for assessment. It was considered to be beyond 
economical repair and a settlement offer was made through the accident management 
company S. Mrs B was unhappy with this offer and so S referred her back to her insurer. 
When Mrs B contacted Rs car insurance claim line about this, they said they had no 
knowledge of her claim. They looked into this and found that Mrs B had erroneously called 
Rs van insurance claims line, and her details had been passed on to the van insurance 
claims administrators C and an accident management company S. Although R is an 
umbrella name for the company, the car and van insurance parts of the business are 
separate entities.  As there was no valid claim recorded by Rs car insurance claims line, 
Zenith the underwriters said they had not aware of the claim and were not liable for what had 
happened. 
Mrs B was unhappy with this response and raised a complaint with Zenith asking them to:  
 
Immediately take over the conduct of her claim
Liaise with the third-party insurer to reach a resolution
Provide her with a hire car
Arrange reimbursement of out of pocket expenses
Award compensation for distress and inconvenience 
Zenith issued a final response dated 26 September 2019. They said that as Mrs B had 
mistakenly called Rs van insurance claims line, they had referred her complaint onto them 
to look into why they had accepted the claim call and not referred her onto the car insurance 
number.  Zenith said they were now unwilling to take over the claim as they felt that it would 
be financially detrimental to Mrs B for them to get involved and could result in her being 
pursued for Ss costs.  However, they said that if agreement could be reached between S 
and their own claims handler, it may be possible.
 
Mrs B was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Bs complaint and decided that Zenith are not 
responsible for this claim, and so there is no case to uphold.  
Mrs B disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would say that I can understand why this whole episode has been distressing for 
Mrs B. She was an insured person, who was not at fault for the accident, and upon trying to 
make a claim under her insurance she has found herself in a confusing situation and has 
experienced financial loss as a result. She also feels let down by her insurer who she 
doesnt think have done enough to help her.  
However, Im not able to say that Zenith are liable for the issues that have arisen, and I will 
explain why.  
When Mrs B rang R to make the claim, she erroneously rang the number for van insurance 
claims. Mrs B says that she obtained this number from the internet, and that there is only 
one number for both car and van claims. 
I have checked the website, and there are different numbers for car and van claims, and this 
is consistent with what R have said. I can see that Mrs B used a google search of R claims 
number and took the number off the search engine, rather than going into the car insurance 
claim pages. As R are providers of a number of types of insurance, there are several 
numbers on the website for different categories of insurance. 
Rs car insurance and van insurance are different parts of the same business, with different 
companies responsible for the administration and management of policies, and different 
underwriters.  It is unclear why the van claims handler opened a claim for Mrs B when she 
had a car policy, and R have asked the van insurance administrators to look into this. 
However, for the purposes of this decision, as Mrs B rang the wrong number and Zenith 
were unaware of the claim, I cant hold them responsible for the actions of the van insurance 
arm of R which is a separate entity. 
Mrs B can try to make a complaint to Rs van insurance administrator about what has 
happened and how she was misled, but as she is not a customer of that business, I dont 
think they would not be under any obligation to respond.    
Unfortunately, the error made by Mrs B resulted in the claim being passed to C and then the 
accident management company S who managed her claim. S have incurred costs including 
the hire car that they provided, which they would usually recover from the third-party insurer. 
However, because Mrs B decided she no longer wanted to use their services, S were no 
longer able to do this, and they are now attempting to recover these costs from Mrs B direct 
because their contract is with her. If Mrs B wishes to challenge this recovery, she will need to 
do so directly with S, and potentially through the courts. I understand that she has recently 
asked the third-party insurer to consider covering these costs which may provide a solution. I 
cant consider this aspect of the complaint. Mrs B has also complained that she asked Zenith to take back control of the claim when she 
no longer wanted to use S, but Zeniths accident management agents advised that they had 
decided against this as it could result in higher costs for Mrs B, which would include the car 
hire charges. I dont think Zenith acted unfairly in making that decision as they were trying to 
assist Mrs B and not escalate costs any further for her.  Zenith also said that they were 
unable to provide any further hire car as the third-party insurers had settled the claim direct 
with Mrs B for her car, and any further costs could not be justified, which would be the 
normal approach in car insurance cases once a settlement is made and so I cant say Zenith 
have acted unfairly here. 
In respect of the data breach, I am satisfied that Zenith didnt pass Mrs Bs information on to 
S, and that the information was provided to them by the van insurance claims line who were 
given the information provided to them by Mrs B in her claim call. This disclosure was 
therefore with her consent, albeit that she had given the information to the wrong company in 
error. 
I have also considered whether Mrs B should be paid anything for distress and 
inconvenience. Although I can see that there were times when the companies involved could 
have provided a better service, none of this was the responsibility of Zenith who Mrs B is 
actually a customer of. As they werent responsible for managing the claim, they cant be 
held responsible for the poor service provided. 
While I appreciate that this is not the outcome Mrs B had hoped for, Im not able to say that 
Zenith have done anything wrong in this case, and so I am not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that Zenith Insurance Plc do not need to do anything further.  
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman