DRN-3065581
The complaint
Mr G complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) failed to cancel 
his standing order, which led to a bill payment being paid twice.
Mr G brings his complaint on behalf of his business, L Limited.  
What happened
In December 2020, Mr G tried to amend the value of a standing order on his account. Virgin
told him he couldnt amend the order and that hed have to cancel it and create a new one.
Virgin talked Mr G through the process of cancelling the old order and creating a new one,
while he was on the phone.
However, the old order didnt cancel so both payments left Mr Gs account. Mr G 
complained. He said Virgin had confirmed to him that the old order had been cancelled, and
that he had a printout showing as much. Virgin said there was nothing it could do, and that
Mr G should contact the recipient to request a refund.
Virgin issued its final response to Mr Gs complaint on 11 February 2021. It said there was
no bank error and that Mr G should contact the recipient to request a refund or it could
request a Faster Payment Recall. It confirmed both standing orders remained active and that
Mr G could cancel it online or by calling its helpdesk.
Mr G remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator asked
Virgin about its processes and decided it was possible for the standing order to be amended,
and that Virgin made a mistake by telling him that wasnt possible. But she felt Virgin had
given Mr G reasonable options to recover the incorrect payment.
Mr G didnt agree. He said Virgin told him he couldnt amend the existing standing order, and
that had led to two payments leaving his account. He said Virgin should seek return of the
money at its own expense.
Because no agreement was reached, the case was referred to me to issue a final decision.
On 27 August 2021, I issued my provisional findings. In them, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call Mr G made to amend the standing order. Mr G told the call handler he
wasnt too computer literate, and it was apparent that he was very uncertain about what he
needed to do. And while the call handler talked through the process and asked Mr G to
check the new payment was showing, he didnt ask Mr G to confirm the old payment was
cancelled and didnt ask Mr G to check.
Given Mr G had been clear he was unfamiliar with the process, I dont consider the call
handler did enough to ensure Mr Gs instructions were effected.
There is some confusion as to whether or not the standing order was cancelled. Mr G says
he had a printout that confirmed the cancellation but says he cant find it. And Virgins audit
report shows the cancellation wasnt processed.
In the absence of evidence from Mr G, I find the audit report persuasive so I can only
reasonably conclude the standing order wasnt cancelled. And given what Ive said above, I
take the view that Virgins failings were the cause of the problem.
There was also confusion as to whether or not Virgin was able to amend the standing order
in the first place. Our investigator thought it probably could have done, based on what Virgin
told her. Ive listened to what Virgin has said on this point and its still not clear to me
whether or not the standing order could have been amended.
But given Mr G told Virgin on his first call that he wasnt able to amend the standing order, it
seems more likely than not that it wasnt possible to amend the order. However, regardless
of that, Im satisfied Virgins failure to ensure the Mr G had cancelled the standing order was
the cause of the payment going out twice.
With that being the case, Ive thought about what Virgin should do to put things right. Its
suggested the quickest way for Mr G to recover the money is to contact the recipient and ask
for a refund. But that it can attempt a Faster Payment Recall if Mr G prefers. Mr G says he
wrote a letter to the recipient but didnt receive a reply. He hasnt asked Virgin to issue the
Faster Payment Recall.
I recognise Mr G wants Virgin to recover the payment at its own costs, and that he feels
strongly about his complaint. And I understand Mr G says hes busy and doesnt have time
to chase the recipient. But Im satisfied Virgins suggestions are reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint. Its suggested the best practical solution and has provided
an alternative option in accordance with its procedures.
Given L Limited has an ongoing relationship with the recipient and an ongoing obligation to
make payments to it, it seems unlikely that L Limited will lose out financially as a result of
Virgins omission. And while I recognise L Limited will be put to inconvenience by having one
of its directors diverted in chasing the receiving party when it shouldnt have to, I will award
compensation to L Limited in respect of that inconvenience.
But company directors sometimes have to deal with administrative matters such as this, and
I dont consider it would be reasonable to ask Virgin to complete that task on behalf of L
Limited, beyond its usual procedures. And while I recognise Mr G did write to the recipient, I
take that view that L Limited could reasonably take further steps to mitigate its losses.
Our investigator felt £50 was fair compensation for L Limiteds inconvenience, based on
Virgins error being the failure to advise Mr G he couldve amended the standing order. She
didnt feel it was liable though for the standing order not being cancelled.
Because of what Ive said above, I take the view Virgin didnt do enough to help Mr G cancel
the older standing order, which has caused L Limited inconvenience. I also note that the call
handler first told Mr G there was nothing Virgin could do, but that Virgin confirmed it could
issue a Faster Payment Recall in its final response letter. Had the call handler told Mr G
about the recall procedure, theres every chance he would have asked for that to be
incepted, which would have reduced the inconvenience caused.
With that in mind, Im minded to ask Virgin to pay Mr G £250 in compensation. Virgin accepted my provisional findings. Mr G initially rejected them, saying Virgin should 
take action to recover the money for him. But he later accepted my findings, after obtaining a 
refund of the money himself.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given both parties accepted my provisional findings, it follows that I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money must pay L Limited 
£250.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman