DRN-3664903
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) declined to refund him funds 
lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr K had started a new job and received an email he thought was from one of the company 
executives asking him to buy gift cards for clients. Mr K explained that he wanted to make a 
good impression with his new company and went to the nearby store and purchased several 
gift cards using one of his other cards issued by a different bank, which after a few 
transactions was blocked. These were later refunded.
He then made three purchases totalling £500 of additional gift cards at a supermarket using 
his Nationwide credit card. Mr K confirmed two of them with his Personal Identification 
Number (PIN). The third was a contactless payment using his credit card at a terminal in the 
same supermarket.
Mr K was asked to scrape the protective covering from the cards to reveal the serial number 
and send this as a photo in a chat message via his mobile phone. This enabled the scammer 
to then cash the value of the cards.
Mr K was asked to buy more cards and he began to question what he was being asked to 
do, so he approached his manager who informed him hed been scammed. Mr K contacted 
Nationwide about the payments.
What Nationwide have said
Nationwide had already noticed the transactions after the third gift card had been bought and 
stopped Mr Ks card. When Mr K contacted them for a refund, it was declined. They believed 
Mr K had authorised the transactions himself, so Nationwide wouldnt make a refund.
Mr K then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review. His complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who considered that 
Nationwide couldnt have reasonably identified that these purchases were suspicious so 
didnt recommend Mr K receive a refund.
Mr K disagreed and believed that the scheme operated by the card issuer (VISA) protected 
him from fraud and that Nationwide should have noticed these transactions as suspicious 
and stopped them earlier. Mr K asked for a further review of his complaint which has now 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear that Mr K had lost funds to these scammers. The question I have to 
consider here is whether its fair and reasonable to ask Nationwide to reimburse Mr K.
Given that theres no disagreement that the transactions in question were authorised by Mr 
K, hes responsible in the first instance for them. To instruct Nationwide to refund them, I 
would need to be satisfied that they should have recognised that the purchases that Mr K 
was making were potentially of concern, so that they (Nationwide) should have prevented 
him from making the transactions and spoken to him about them.
Mr K had recently cleared the bulk of his balance from his credit card account and at the 
time of these transactions, he had a substantial amount of credit available to him. The three  
transactions he made at a major supermarket dont stand out when compared against his 
normal usage. The amounts he spent on each individual transaction are well within what Mr 
K normally spent and the only real different feature of them is that he made three 
transactions to the same business on the same day.
I dont think that three relatively small payments from the account would warrant Nationwide 
to be so concerned that theyd take further action. Particularly as two of them used both the 
card and personal identification number (PIN) to confirm the transactions. I dont think it 
would be reasonable to expect Nationwide to identify that these payments were part of a 
scam unless further payments were attempted.
Mr K stopped making payments at that point because he himself had realised there was 
something amiss about the situation. But, as I dont think that Nationwide should have 
realised Mr K was the victim of a scam and he authorised them, I wont be asking 
Nationwide to refund these payments.
Visa fraud policy
Mr K believed that the card operators policy was relevant to his situation and he should 
have received a refund based on the conditions of the scheme. Broadly this policy says:
Our Zero Liability Policy provides a guarantee that you won't be held responsible for any 
unauthorised payments made with your card or card details.  You're protected if your Visa 
debit or credit card is lost, stolen or used fraudulently, online or offline
Unfortunately, this policy doesnt cover authorised payments so wouldnt be relevant to Mr 
Ks situation. Put simply, Mr K made the payments himself, so it was reasonable for 
Nationwide to process his payments because hed given them a legitimate instruction when 
he used his card and on two occasions, confirmed the payment with the PIN. Its accepted 
he wasnt aware he was being scammed at the time, but for the purposes of this complaint 
the policy hes referred to doesnt apply. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman