DRN-2813758
The complaint
Mr P complains that Ageas Insurance Limited has unfairly declined to pay all of his claim 
under his landlord policy for storm damage and loss of rent to a property that he rents out. 
References to Ageas include its agents.
What happened
A storm damaged Mr Ps rental property, which he described as affecting the walls and 
ceilings initially, and then water that had backed up on the roof and the downpipe started 
coming up through the drains and put raw sewage into his property. 
Mr P said Ageas accepted liability for the claim but after 13 months had refused to settle in 
full for the walls and ceilings, and deducted £149.50 from a flooring repair and refused to pay 
£15,000 loss of rental income. He said Ageas told him this was one insured event and that 
one excess would be deducted but changed its mind and deducted three excess payments. 
Mr P said his dishwasher was affected with foul water and began sparking. But said that 
despite making Ageas aware of a fire risk, that could lead to loss of life and manslaughter 
charges, it refused a replacement for racially motivated reasons. He said his letter about this 
led Ageas to cancel his policy mid-claim, stating it didnt want to insure his property. Mr P 
thinks Ageas has racially discriminated against him in its handling of his claim and policy. 
Mr P said Ageas refusal to meet his costs led him to pay £5,000 for a new roof, but he said 
that two Ageas claims handlers and its loss adjuster confirmed in writing that all damage to 
ceilings, walls and flooring was covered under the policy and up to £50,000 loss of rent. He 
said Ageas made over 400 enquiries and delayed any action until December 2019 when the 
property had incurred more damage. He said work could have started in September 2019.
Mr P said Ageas refusal to implement lessons from the Grenfell Tower tragedy to replace a 
damaged appliance will cause a fire. He said Ageas accidentally leaked an email stating the 
regulators would be hot on this. Mr P wants Ageas to settle his claim in full and reinstate his 
policy backdated to 1 January 2020. He wants Ageas to apologise for mistakes on his claim 
and pay him £500 compensation for injury to his feelings and inconvenience.
Ageas said it paid a claim for storm damage to the roof of Mr Ps property in February 2019 
so that repairs could be carried out. It said photos of the current claim show roof damage, 
but none show repairs although identical locations were claimed for previously. Ageas sent 
loss adjusters to assess the damage and they reported that there were at least three holes in 
the roof felt plus an area where the felt was missing completely. The expert thought the roof 
may have failed due to faulty workmanship and non-completion of previous repairs. Ageas 
said that an invoice mentions that the felt under the tiles across the whole roof had 
completely worn away to spacing between tiles not to industry standard level. The roofing 
was said to require maintenance work.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be partly upheld. She said insurers are entitled 
to choose what risks to cover and so Ageas didnt have to renew Mr Ps policy. She said his 
claim was accepted but Ageas loss adjusters found that a storm wasnt the main cause of 
the roof damage, it was maintenance-related and had been the subject of a claim in 2019. 
She said the policy excluded wear and tear and Ageas had correctly declined the roof claim.
 
Our investigator said Ageas wrongly deducted two excesses and caused confusion about 
the damage covered and should pay Mr P £200 compensation. She said an electrician 
passed the dishwasher as safe and Ageas didnt need to replace it. And Ageas had correctly 
assessed the time when Mr Ps property couldnt be rented as three months and shouldnt 
pay any more. She said there was continuous activity on the claim and no avoidable delays 
from Ageas. And shed found no racial discrimination towards Mr P from Ageas or its agents.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He 
said the policy shouldnt be cancelled mid-claim, which meant he couldnt get insurance for 
nine months and so this is his loss of rent claim. He said Ageas decided not to renew the 
policy based on the cost of the claim which was too expensive for them. He said Ageas told 
this to the insurance broker who told him.
Ageas agreed with the investigators view of the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P commented that hed not seen the correspondence provided by Zurich to our service. 
This has now been provided to him and my decision summarises the key pieces of evidence. 
Insurers are entitled to reach decisions about which risks they want to cover and which 
consumers they want to offer policies to. Our service doesnt regulate insurers as this is the 
role of the Financial Conduct Authority and we cant interfere with commercial decisions of 
this kind. This would apply to Ageas not offering Mr P renewal of his insurance policy as 
confirmed by the policy document which states, We are not bound to offer renewal of this 
policy. In any event, Ageas continued to assess Mr Ps claim and so I havent found that 
Ageas has done anything wrong by not renewing Mr Ps insurance policy.
Mr P said his loss of rent claim is for a further nine months as this was the period during 
which he couldnt get insurance following cancellation by Ageas. I havent seen any 
evidence of this gap in Mr Ps cover but in any event his policy wasnt cancelled it had 
reached the end of the term and Ageas didnt want to renew it. The policy covers loss of rent 
as follows:
We will cover you for loss of rent receivable as a result of accidental damage occurring
during the period of insurance to property used by the business at the premises by any
of the cover causes shown against this item on the schedule. We will calculate the loss of
rent receivable as follows: a in respect of the reduction in rent receivable due to the
damage, the amount by which rent receivable during the indemnity period shall in
consequence of the damage fall short of the amount that should have been received
I think that Ageas has correctly paid loss of rent for the period while Mr Ps property couldnt 
receive rent due to the damage. Mr Ps extended claim for loss of rent is due to his not being 
able to obtain alternative cover rather than the damage itself. Since I think it was fair for 
Ageas not to renew Mr Ps policy, I dont think it would be fair for it to pay any more for Mr 
Ps loss of rent claim. Mr P should bear in mind that loss of rent is only payable during the 
time taken to deal with insured events, not uninsured losses and it would appear that three 
months was adequate time for the repairs covered by the policy to be carried out. Mr P is unhappy with the amount of his claim that has been declined and said he had carried 
out maintenance works in June 2019. The only available expert reports are from Ageas loss 
adjusters. They found the propertys external render was badly cracked which had allowed 
moisture penetration and the lead flashing at the front of the property was in need of 
maintenance, as was the roof. They reported that the damage from moisture wasnt related 
to water from the roof during the storm. 
The loss adjusters expert investigation also found holes in the roof felt and missing roof felt. 
Ageas thought the roof may have failed due to faulty workmanship and non-completion of 
the previous repairs. The reports conclusion is that storm conditions werent the main cause 
of the damage to Mr Ps property. Based on the evidence I think that the storm conditions 
have highlighted deterioration that was already present on the roof. 
I think the staining of the walls within Mr Ps property isnt consistent with the damage 
caused by water ingress from the roof and was more likely to be due to on-going 
maintenance issues with the cracked render. Mr Ps tenant also confirmed that there was 
water entering the bedrooms before the storm incident and the expert agreed that the 
staining was pre-existing damage. This means that the damage mainly falls under wear and 
tear term above, which the policy excludes. From what Ive seen Ageas has made a correct 
assessment of what damage is and isnt covered by the policy. 
The policy terms and conditions contain an exclusion for the property section which is 
common to all property insurance. It states the following:
We will not pay for wear and tear
Important Notice
This policy does not cover maintenance of your property. That means we will not cover the
cost of wear and tear or routine maintenance. We expect you to properly maintain your
property, but the cost of this remains your responsibility.
The experts findings that the roof was in a poor condition requiring maintenance, mean that 
the damage isnt linked to an insured event.
Mr P disputed the payment from Ageas for his damaged flooring. Some of this was covered 
by his policy under the accidental damage peril, but not the bedroom flooring as the damage 
came from the failed roof due to wear and tear. This also applied to the walls and ceiling. So 
far as I can see Ageas agreed the estimate in full and so I would ask that it re-check the 
figures for payment to ensure this part of the claim has been correctly paid.  
Mr P has said that Ageas refusal to implement lessons from the Grenfell Tower tragedy to 
replace a damaged appliance will cause a fire. It is a landlords responsibility for the safety of 
tenants and others to ensure that appliances they own are safe, not an insurers. Ageas 
electrician has tested and passed the appliance as safe to use and so I think Ageas has met 
its responsibility in this instance. 
I have looked at Ageass handling of Mr Ps claim up until August 2020 to see if it caused 
delays as Mr P has suggested. Ageas is entitled to verify a claim and is likely to take trouble 
to do so where theres been a similar claim in the recent past. This was prolonged when 
Ageas found undisclosed information by Mr P and it took time to deal with Ageass requests 
for information. I havent seen evidence of avoidable delays from Ageas or its agents, nor 
have I seen that it made over 400 enquiries.
Ageas has treated the damage Mr P claimed as two separate incidents with two excesses. 
Although I think much of the claim has been correctly declined by Ageas, Im not convinced 
by the evidence that an ingress of water from the roof and water backing up from a blocked drain are from separate events. Ageas loss adjusters said that this would be one claim and I 
agree. And so, I think Ageas should reimburse Mr P with the second policy excess they had 
charged him, if it hasnt already done so. 
Having said the above, I do think Ageas caused some confusion to Mr P about the bedroom 
floors, walls and ceilings being covered. And he had to obtain estimates for repairs even 
though these parts of his claim were excluded by the policy. I agree with the investigator that 
Ageas should pay Mr P £200 compensation for his inconvenience.
Mr P has also said that Ageas handling and decisions on his claim were acts of racial 
discrimination based on racial profiling. He hasnt provided any evidence of this and I havent 
seen anything from Ageas records to suggest that hes been racially discriminated against. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld in part. 
Unless it has already done so, I require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr P £200 
compensation for the inconvenience he was caused about what would be covered on his 
claim. I also require Ageas Insurance Limited to reimburse Mr P for any amount taken as an 
excess above a single excess charge. 
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman