DRN-2342692
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down a 
damage claim on the commercial property insurance policies theyre insured under.  
 
Mr M1 and Mr M2, directors of T, have brought the complaint on Ts behalf. Theyve been 
helped in bringing this complaint to us by their broker, but for ease of reading Ill refer to the 
actions and comments of their representative as being those of Mr M1 and Mr M2.  
What happened
Mr M1 and Mr M2 are landlords of a pub and insured under policies held by the brewery.   
Mr M1 and Mr M2 claimed on the policy after large umbrellas in their pub garden were 
damaged in high winds. AXA said it considered the claim under both the buildings and 
contents policies but turned down the claim. It said neither policy covered damage to 
moveable items in high winds, and it thought the umbrellas were moveable.  
 
Mr M1 and Mr M2 didnt think this was fair. They said the umbrellas werent moveable. They 
said they were concreted into the ground, under decking. They said the umbrellas had heat 
lamps which meant they were also wired in. Mr M1 and Mr M2 provided information from the 
supplier of the umbrellas which explained why the umbrellas werent moveable.  
 
AXA didnt agree. It said that, although the umbrellas might not be easily moveable, they 
could be moved. 
 
As AXA refused to pay the claim, Mr M1 and Mr M2 brought their complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into their complaint and recommended it be upheld. She didnt think the 
umbrellas could fairly be considered moveable, because while they could be moved they 
werent designed to be moved regularly. She recommended AXA pay Ts claim, plus 
interest. She also recommended AXA pay T £250 for their inconvenience.  
 
AXA didnt accept this. It said it had considered the claim under both the buildings and 
contents policies. It said it didnt consider the item to be a building, as the 
umbrellas were something that could be taken if Mr M1 and Mr M2 were to move. And, as 
a content of the property, the umbrellas werent covered because theres an exclusion in 
the policy for moveable items in high wind.  
 
AXA said it applied the dictionary definition of moveable which meant something capable of 
being moved. It said damage to items such as umbrellas in high winds wasnt fortuitous and 
so the policy wasnt intended to cover it. As it didnt agree, AXA asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.  
Before reaching my final decision I asked our investigator to let Mr M1 and Mr M2 know that 
I hadnt seen enough evidence of inconvenience to award £250 to T. Mr M1 and Mr M2 
accepted this.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The wording in the buildings and contents policies are slightly different but both essentially 
exclude cover for moveable items in wind. So, I think the main thing for me to consider is 
whether its fair and reasonable for AXA to consider these particular umbrellas as being 
moveable items. Having done so, I dont think they are moveable, and Ill now explain why.  
 
The umbrella brochure shows that these are large items and the ground sleeve is concreted 
into the ground. The umbrella pole is then inserted into the base and the electrics are wired 
through it to power the heaters.  
 
AXA contacted the seller of the umbrellas to ask if the items were moveable. The seller said 
they are not designed or supposed to be removed from their inground bases on a 
daily/regular basis. They added that the umbrellas are designed as a permanent fixture and 
in Ts case the bolts fixing it down arent accessible due to the decking area.  
 
Our investigator also spoke to the seller. They said that if the umbrellas are moved this is 
usually done by a building contractor. They said the umbrellas dont come apart at the centre 
but are fixed below the decking through joists and plates.  
 
Mr M1 and Mr M2 have confirmed that the umbrellas were fixed underneath the decking and 
so couldnt be taken apart without moving the decking. Theyve said that they dont take the 
umbrellas in during the winter months and they are used all year round. I understand that 
due to the size and weight of the umbrellas, the sellers offer a service to take them down in 
the winter but Mr M1 and Mr M2 dont use this because theyre unable to remove the 
umbrellas without taking up the decking.  
 
The information from the seller shows that these arent items that are designed to be moved 
more than once a year. And in this particular case I dont think theyre moveable because of 
the decking, that they require a building contractor to move them and are wired in 
electrically. 
Ive also noted that the damage occurred in April which isnt during the months the seller 
suggests removing the items. So, I dont think the damage has been caused by Mr M1 and 
Mr M2 not taking them down during the winter.  
 
Ive considered AXAs point that the umbrellas are moveable because theyre capable of 
being moved. But while they could be moved with some difficulty, in this particular case I 
think its fair and reasonable to decide theyre not moveable, for the reasons set out above. 
 
AXA has also said the loss isnt fortuitous and that fences and gates are also not covered in 
high winds. But the umbrellas arent specifically excluded under the policy. And in this case I 
think its fair for them to be covered because I dont think theyre moveable, so I dont think 
the exclusion applies.  
 
I dont think AXA has applied this term fairly, as I dont think these particular umbrellas are 
moveable. So, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint is for AXA 
to pay Ts claim for the umbrellas, minus any excess on the policy. If Mr M1 and Mr M2 have 
already paid for the repairs or replacement, AXA should add interest at 8% simple per year 
to this amount, calculated from the date they paid until the date it makes payment. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Ts 
claim, minus any excess on the policy. If Mr M1 and Mr M2 have already paid for the repairs 
or replacement, AXA Insurance Plc should add interest at 8% simple per year to this amount 
calculated from the date they paid until the date it makes payment.  
 
If AXA Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell T how much its taken off. It should also give T a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman