DRN-1633267
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1996 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD (AXA). This is 
because Financial Insurance Company Limited has transferred responsibility for PPI 
complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing 
else has changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
Mrs W says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its likely AXA made it clear Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it  although I can understand why she cant remember this over 23 years later. I say 
this because AXA has provided a copy of the credit agreement for the store card. To get the 
PPI, Mrs W had to tick a box for it. The box is ticked and Mrs W has signed the form at the 
bottom, which, most likely, denotes her agreement with the forms contents. Ive noted that 
theres no language on any documentary evidence that suggests the credit is dependent on 
taking out PPI. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W, so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure she got the information she needed so she could decide if it was 
right for her.
The information AXA gave Mrs W about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ws circumstances at the time it seems that she 
was eligible for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like she was affected 
by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for her 
if something went wrong. 
And it appears that Mrs W would have benefited from the cover. I say this because Mrs W 
told us initially that she had full pay for over a year if she was too ill to work. But the evidence 
Mrs W provided suggested her sick pay was much less than that, and Mrs W told us she 
only had modest savings to rely on in the event of long term ill health, or if she lost her job. 
So I think the PPI could have been useful for her.So having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mrs W off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman