DRN-2209716
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc has handled a claim he made on his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R has travel insurance as a benefit of his bank account.
Mr R was on holiday with his wife (Mrs R), his son and his sons family. Unfortunately, on 26 
May 2019, Mrs R collapsed and was admitted to intensive care. Mr Rs son (Mr M) got in 
touch with AXAs medical assistance team to let it know whatd happened and to make a 
claim.
AXA contacted the treating hospital and was able to confirm cover the following day. It let Mr 
M know it would also cover one person to remain with Mrs R and would pay their additional 
accommodation and transport costs. Mr M told AXA hed be remaining with Mrs R and that 
Mr R would be returning home with Mr Ms family on their pre-booked flight.
Mr R decided not to return home as planned and so Mr M asked AXA if it would cover them 
both to stay with Mrs R. Mr R had taken out another policy with AXA through a separate 
scheme and they asked AXA to also consider Mr Rs costs under that policy.
AXA didnt agree to cover Mr Rs costs as well as Mr Ms. It also investigated whether there 
was any cover under Mr Rs second policy, but that policy only covered any medical 
expenses Mr R incurred. Mr R was unhappy with AXAs decision, so he complained.
Mrs R remained in intensive care. AXA decided the best course of action was to repatriate 
her back to the UK for further treatment. After the treating hospital agreed Mrs R was fit to 
fly, AXA organised her repatriation by air ambulance.
Mr R was unhappy with the service hed received from AXA. He said no-one had pointed out 
to him that the policy only covered one additional person to remain in these circumstances. 
He felt AXA should cover his expenses. And he also felt it should pay him and Mr M 
substantial compensation for failing to regularly update them; Mr M needing to call for 
information and the fact the hospital and hotel kept chasing them for payment and checking 
whether or not their room booking was being extended.
AXA agreed it hadnt kept Mr M updated as much as it could and shouldve done. So it 
offered to pay Mr £150 compensation. But it maintained that Mr Rs travel expenses werent 
covered. As Mr R remained unhappy with AXAs position, he asked us to look into his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Rs complaint should be upheld. She thought the policy only 
covered one person to remain with Mrs R and that AXA had made this clear to Mr M. She 
noted cover had been confirmed the day after Mr M got in touch with AXA, so she didnt 
think thered been an unreasonable delay. She felt AXA had made reasonable attempts to 
contact the hotel to extend Mr Ms booking but hadnt been able to get through. But she did 
feel that AXAs failure to keep Mr R and Mr M regularly updated had caused them some 
distress and inconvenience at an already difficult time. So she felt it was appropriate for AXA 
to pay them £150 compensation to recognise this. 
Mr R disagreed. He felt AXAs offer of compensation was insulting and didnt reflect the 
problems itd caused. Theyd been in a horrendous situation and AXA had done nothing to 
help. Mr R had also requested transcripts or recordings of the calls between Mr R and AXA, 
but it hadnt responded to his requests.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXAs offer of settlement is fair. Ill explain why.
I understand Mr R and his family were in a frightening and very distressing situation. Im 
pleased to hear that Mrs R recovered well following her treatment in hospital. But in making 
my decision, I need to consider whether I think AXA handled Mr Rs claim promptly and 
fairly. It seems to me that there are two main issues for me to decide. First, should AXA have 
paid for Mr R, as well as Mr M, to remain with Mrs R? And second, is the compensation its 
offered fair and reasonable? Ill consider each point in turn.
Should AXA have covered Mr R to remain with Mrs R?
Ive carefully considered the medical expenses section of Mr Rs policy. This was the section 
Mrs Rs treatment was considered under. The policy says that it covers reasonable 
additional transport or accommodation expenses for a friend or close relative to remain with 
(a policyholder).
So I think the policy clearly sets out that AXA will only cover one person to stay with a 
policyholder in circumstances like these. Ive looked closely at AXAs contact notes, which 
detail the calls it had with Mr M. It seems that Mr M was told, more than once, that only one 
person would be covered to stay with Mrs R. He told AXA hed be remaining with her and 
that Mr R would be returning on his pre-booked flight, along with Mr Ms family.
I think AXA let Mr M know very early on about the extent of policy cover. I appreciate Mr R 
also suffers from some health conditions and requires assistance. I can also understand why 
he wanted to remain with his wife, given the severity of her illness. But given I think AXA 
gave Mr M accurate information about the policy cover upfront, I think Mr R made an 
informed choice to stay abroad. And that by doing so, he took the risk that hed need to bear 
any additional costs himself.
This means I think it was fair for AXA not to pay Mr Rs additional accommodation and travel 
expenses.
I appreciate Mr R says no-one pointed out that medical expenses cover was limited to one 
friend or close relative to remain with a policyholder. But most, if not all, travel insurance 
policies available on the retail market provide the same level of cover. So I dont think Mr R 
wouldve been able to find an alternative policy that did provide cover for two people to 
remain with a policyholder in these circumstances.
Is AXAs offer of compensation fair and reasonable?Ive looked closely at AXAs records of its contact not just with Mr R and Mr M, but also with 
the treating hospital, the hotel, UK hospitals and the agencies it used to secure Mrs Rs air 
ambulance.
AXA learned about Mrs Rs hospitalisation on 26 May 2019. At that point, AXA needed 
further information to check whether the claim would be covered. Its standard for insurers to 
carry out such checks and request medical information when assessing claims. AXA 
confirmed the claim would be covered on 27 May 2019, one day after it was notified about 
the claim. So I think it confirmed cover very promptly and reassured Mr M that Mrs Rs 
medical expenses and his own travel and accommodation costs would be covered.
The notes also suggest that AXA was proactive in trying to get in touch with the hotel to 
extend Mr Ms booking. The notes show that it tried to call and email  but was unable to get 
through at times. Im satisfied though that it took reasonable steps to extend Mr Ms stay and 
it wasnt responsible for the fact it wasnt able to get through at points. I do appreciate 
though that it mustve been worrying for Mr M when he was being chased up by the hotel as 
to his plans. But I dont think this was down to any particular error on AXAs part.
I appreciate Mr M was also being chased up for guarantees of payment. And I dont doubt 
how stressful this mustve been given the situation. But AXA had confirmed cover and both 
the hotel and hospital ought to have been aware that their costs would be met. 
However, its also clear that despite AXA actively getting in touch with Mr M regularly during 
the initial stages of the claim, it later didnt keep Mr M informed about what was happening or 
what arrangements it was looking into making. Given how unwell Mrs R was, I think AXA 
shouldve taken steps to make sure it kept Mr R and Mr M up to date about how it was 
handling the claim. And the fact it didnt caused Mr R additional trouble and upset at a very 
difficult time. So I agree that its appropriate to pay compensation to recognise this.
Taking everything into account, I think £150 is fair compensation. Thats because I do think 
AXA confirmed cover early on and while it didnt communicate as well as it couldve done, Mr 
R knew Mrs Rs costs would be fully met. And I think much of Mr Rs understandable upset 
was due to his concern for his wife.
Mr R has complained AXA hasnt responded to his requests for call recordings or call 
transcripts. AXA has told us that it doesnt have any record of Mr R requesting this 
information. If Mr R feels AXA hasnt appropriately dealt with any Data Subject Access 
Request under the Freedom of Information Act, he should get in touch with the Information 
Commissioners Office.
AXA has also told us that it would be happy to assess a claim for Mr Ms out of pocket 
expenses related to the claim. Its open to Mr M to contact AXA should he wish to do so.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that AXAs offer of settlement is fair.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr R £150 compensation if it hasnt already done so.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman