DRN-3733726
The complaint
Mr P complains Animal Friends Insurance Services Ltd (AF) gave him incorrect information 
when making a claim against his pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P says his dog suffered a cruciate injury in 2021 shortly after his pet insurance policy 
started. He raised a claim with the insurer for treatment costs, but it was declined because it 
occurred within the policy waiting period. 
Mr P says he called AF before instructing his vet to carry out treatment to query if the 
subsequent claim would be covered. He says they told him it would be, so he went ahead 
with treatment on that basis. Mr P says had AF told him the claim wouldnt be paid, he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with treatment due to financial reasons. Mr P says hes now been 
left with a £4,000 vet bill, so he complained to AF. 
AF responded to it in 2022. They say they hold no call record of Mr P being told the claim 
would be paid, so they didnt uphold it. Mr P remained unhappy and approached our service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. He didnt think there was sufficient 
supporting evidence to show AF pre-authorised the claim on behalf of the insurer. Mr P 
didnt agree. He provided a phone bill to show a call was made to AF and maintains he was 
told treatment costs would be covered. As he didnt agree, the case was passed to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I havent considered the claim decision made by the insurer as that matter 
has been considered under a separate complaint. Ive considered whether I think AF treated 
Mr P unfairly. 
The complaint notes suggest Mr Ps dog was born in 2018 and Mr P hadnt previously taken 
out insurance for his dog prior to the start of this policy. Then, shortly after this policy 
commenced, Mr P says his dog suffered a cruciate injury. The insurer declined the claim as 
the clinical notes suggested it occurred within the policy waiting period  which the policy 
information sets out. Mr P would have had this information available to him when purchasing 
the policy. 
Mr P says, however, he contacted AF prior to requesting his vet carried out treatment to 
query whether the costs would be covered by the policy. He says AF told him they would be 
under the accident section of the policy, so he went ahead with treatment on that basis. 
AF say they hold no call record of pre-authorising Mr Ps claim on behalf of the insurer. And 
whether a claim is paid is a decision for the insurer to take  which will generally be based 
on the policy, and clinical history notes, amongst other things. 
Mr P provided a copy of his phone bill, however, and Im satisfied this shows the number on 
AFs website was called  lasting around 12 minutes  on 12 February 2021. So, while Im 
persuaded a call was made to AFs number on their website, this doesnt show what was 
discussed or agreed during this call. 
No call recording is available nor call notes. Generally  although I can accept human error 
can and does occur, Id usually expect to see something like a call note to reflect that a claim 
had been pre-authorised, and a customer to be sent a pre-authorisation number or email 
summarising the approval of the claim. This didnt happen which could also suggest the 
agent Mr P says he spoke to didnt access Mr Ps policy  rather, they provided general 
information based on the circumstances Mr P explained, and the policy wording. I say this 
because the policy may have covered these circumstances had the claim-incident occurred 
after the policy waiting period. 
I do take Mr Ps point regarding why no call recording is available or notes given hes 
demonstrated AFs website number was called by him. But, in the absence of this, and a 
pre-authorisation number or follow up email, Im not satisfied Ive seen strong supporting 
evidence that demonstrates AF pre-authorised the claim here on behalf of the insurer. 
It's fairly common in my view for the type of pet insurance Mr P held to have a policy waiting 
period. The information that would have been available to Mr P when he purchased the 
policy sets this out. 
I appreciate Mr P says he was on long-term sick while his dog suffered a cruciate injury. And 
he says hes now been left in a difficult financial position having to pay a £4,000 vet bill. But 
based on the information available to me, Im unable to fairly conclude AF pre-authorised the 
claim on the insurers behalf  outside the policy terms. So, I wont be requiring AF to do 
anything here in respect of the complaint. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr P. But my decision ends what we  
in attempting to resolve his dispute with AF  can do for him. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman