DRN-3345047
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited unreasonably refused to pay his claim 
under his motor policy. 
What happened
Mr R said in October 2020 his car had been hit when parked by an unknown driver. In order 
to validate his claim, Ageas asked him for proof of purchase and varying circumstances of 
his loss. On receipt of the information provided by Mr R Ageas wasnt satisfied, so it refused 
to pay Mr Rs claim on 8 February 2021 and issued a final response letter on 12 February 
2021. 
Mr R then brought his complaint to this service. During the investigation of that complaint Mr 
R provided a retrospective receipt for the purchase of his car. On that basis Ageas agreed to 
look at his claim again.
 
However, it decided this receipt wasnt satisfactory, so Ageas again declined to deal with Mr 
Rs claim on 28 October 2021 and issued its final response letter on 29 November 2021. Mr 
R brought this complaint back to this service. The investigator having assessed the matter 
was of the view that Ageas hadnt done anything wrong in not considering and accepting Mr 
Rs claim. 
Mr R didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Also given Mr R effectively brought two complaints to this service, my decision is only 
referring to Ageas review of the purchase receipt disclosed by Mr R. 
On receipt of this information Ageas wanted to validate it. So, it made enquires with the 
name of the seller and his address. Unfortunately, this seller has never lived at the address 
on the purchase receipt and neither had Mr Rs car ever been sold from that address.
In its letter of repudiation of 29 November 2021 Ageas explained to Mr R that when it had 
previously asked Mr R for the receipt, he couldnt produce one. The occupant of the address 
on the purchase receipt Mr R then produced says she has lived there since 2015 and had no 
knowledge of the seller and neither did she have any links of this seller to her address. On 
that basis Ageas didnt consider the purchase receipt was verified. So, it wouldnt deal with 
his claim.
 
I consider given these events, namely that in the first instance Mr R couldnt provide any 
purchase receipt and then produced a receipt which couldnt be verified since the address 
wasnt the right address, are significant. And I dont find that Ageas decision to not deal with 
Mr Rs claim was unreasonable. In order to make a successful claim under the policy, the 
policyholder must verify the loss and Mr R hasnt done that here since his purchase receipt 
for his car cant be verified. This is more relevant since Mr R alleged his car was damaged 
by an unknown other driver and the fact that Mr Rs was previously deemed a total loss by a 
previous insurer.
Ageas is fully entitled to refuse to pay the whole claim if any part of it is deemed false or 
exaggerated and given the issues with the address on the purchase receipt, I dont consider 
Ageas was unreasonable to take the stance that it wouldnt deal with Mr Rs claim.   
My final decision
So, although I understand and appreciate Mr R will be disappointed, for these reasons, its 
my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman