DRN-3721044
The complaint
Mr Z says Zurich Assurance Limited has unfairly refused to pay out his terminal illness claim. 
He is represented by his wife, Mrs Z, in bringing the complaint.  
What happened
Mr Z held a level term assurance policy with Zurich which began in December 2008. It 
offered him £200,000 of cover for a 13-year term. The policy ended on 31 December 2021.
As well as life cover, the policy included terminal illness benefit up to the last 12 months 
before expiry  so 31 December 2020.  
In September 2020, Mrs Z contacted Zurich to make a claim for terminal illness benefit for 
Mr Z. He was previously diagnosed with cancer in 2018, and it had now sadly metastasised. 
Medical evidence was sought from Mr Zs treating consultant, and this was supplied to 
Zurich in November 2020. Mrs Z also sent Zurich a letter in January 2021 explaining that Mr 
Z had started a type of hormone therapy treatment line, but he suffered severe side effects 
and so the treatment ended in December 2020. Mrs Z also said there had been another 
treatment line considered, but it wasnt suitable for Mr Z because of his heart issues. 
On 1 July 2021, Zurich refused the claim. It said that all the latest clinical evidence, including 
an MRI, showed stability. It appreciated Mrs Z had advised it about a worse-case scenario of 
three to six months, but it had seen no clinical or medical evidence which confirmed that 
prognosis. It also said that Mr Z had the potential to restart the treatment line on a reduced 
dose. Finally, it said that Mr Zs treating consultant had supplied a report in which she 
confirmed Mr Zs life expectancy was approximately two to three years. 
Mr Z appealed in writing, noting that he believed he had met all the requirements for a claim 
and Zurich hadnt properly considered the evidence. He said, in summary:
the letter which said he can recommence a certain treatment line was incorrect  
NHS Trust policy was that it could not be restarted if there has been cessation of 
longer than three months;
a specific blood test used to detect his type of cancer continues to increase;
Zurich made no mention of having contacted his hospice;
there was also no consideration of GP evidence about other health concerns caused 
by his cancer;
for example, he has had stents placed in his heart due to heart failure, yet it does not 
seem that Zurich considered this or contacted the relevant cardiology department;
he now also has diabetes caused by impact of his cancer treatment; 
he wanted Zurich to supply all the information it relied on to reach its decision. 
Zurich treated Mr Zs appeal as a complaint. In September 2021, it rejected the complaint. It 
said the medical report it received suggested Mr Z had two to three years to live. Despite 
this, it agreed to write out for additional information  but it had not changed its view on the 
complaint. Mr Zs medical evidence needed to show he had a life expectancy of less than 12 
months before 31 December 2020, and Zurich had not seen any confirmation of that. 
Mr and Mrs Z therefore brought Mr Zs complaint to this service. 
Our investigator did not think the complaint should succeed. He reiterated that the report 
from Mr Zs treating consultant dated 19 November 2020 confirmed Mr Zs life expectancy as 
two to three years approximately. And he hadnt seen any other evidence that would meet 
the requirements of Mr Zs policy wording before the terminal illness benefit expired on 31 
December 2020.  
Mr and Mrs Z wanted the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Mr Z felt this service 
had acted unreasonably. He noted that there was a further internal letter from his hospital 
which said he had less than 12 months to live, and this had been disregarded in favour of 
the report supplied to Zurich.  
Zurich said it had no further comments to make. The complaint has now been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to learn of Mr Zs diagnosis, and I send my best wishes to Mr and Mrs Z at what I 
realise has been, and continues to be, an incredibly difficult time for them. Unfortunately, I 
am also of the view that this complaint should not succeed. Ill set out my reasons below.  
I have looked at what the parties' obligations are under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. That is the start point. Mr Zs policy terms said:
Terminal illness
An advanced or rapidly progressing incurable illness, where in the opinion of an 
attending Consultant and our Chief Medical Officer, your Life Expectancy is no more 
than 12 months.
There was also an exclusion within the terms that confirmed:
We wont pay out if you are diagnosed with a terminal illness within the last 12 
months of the plans term and you survive until the plan ends. 
The intention of a terminal illness payment is an advance payment of a policys death
benefit. For a valid claim under these terms and conditions, it must be found that the 
policyholders condition is expected to lead to his or her death within 12 months and in this 
case, that must be before the final 12 months of the policy term. 
In order for a claim to be valid, Mr Zs life expectancy needed to have been confirmed as 
less than 12 months on or before 31 December 2020. In the November 2020 medical report, 
the Consultant Clinical Oncologist was asked to confirm Mr Zs life expectancy, and the 
basis of that assessment. It was set out that Mr Zs predicted life expectancy was 2-3 years. 
Clearly, Mr Zs condition is incurable, given the advanced nature and spread of his type of 
cancer and this is not disputed by Zurich. However, I dont believe the definition has been 
satisfied in full based on the information Ive seen, as there has not been confirmation of a 
reduced life expectancy under 12 months at any time before 31 December 2020.   
I can see Mr Z has had many issues with his treatment line and this meant he had to 
discontinue it in December 2020 and again in February 2020 after trying a smaller dose. Im not saying that I think all available treatment options must be undertaken by a person 
with a terminal illness for the purposes of satisfying a terminal illness benefit claim. Each 
claim will depend on a policyholders specific condition and variables such as their
circumstances, the availability of any proposed treatment option, and the risks attached. It is 
a matter of choice for any claimant as to what, if any, available treatment is right for them; if 
Mr Z decided to stop his treatment due to side effects or linked conditions, that is his choice 
to make. 
But I do think it is fair for an insurer to ask a policyholders consultant about any treatment, 
therapy or means of management for a condition which could have an impact upon his or 
her life expectancy, and notably where that treatment has commenced. That is what has 
happened here. And, even if I were to disregard that, I do not believe the consultant has set 
out any evidence to support a reduced life expectancy such that I can require Zurich to meet 
the claim.  
On 24 March 2021, the consultant wrote a further letter in respect of Mr Zs ongoing issues 
with treatment and his claim, after having spoken with Mrs Z. She noted that: 
We wrote to Zurich Insurance Company back in November and I see that a further 
letter has just been requested from them which has already been typed and which 
details his current situation. This has not materially changed since last November in 
terms of his cancer, which, as you know, is responding very well to his current 
treatment schedule.  
I am also concerned about his deteriorating health and have written to his GP as the 
new onset of shuffling and altered gait does not seem to be persistent with any side-
effects of [type of] cancer medication or its treatment. I note that his whole body 
diffusion-weighted MRI on 22 December really shows a very good response to 
treatment with no evidence of active disease at that time.
I accept that the consultant goes on to express her concerns about Mr Zs deteriorating 
health, in her view this was a significant risk which was not due to cancer. But she did not 
give any indication that her view from November 2020 had changed. And, though paused at 
the time, she was inclined to put Mr Z back on the treatment line after a further four weeks. 
So, without supporting evidence, I cannot conclude Mr Zs life expectancy was reduced such 
that a valid claim existed before the terminal illness benefit ended on 31 December 2020. 
I am also able to consider if, with hindsight, if any later evidence could have retrospectively 
satisfied a claim. To that end, Mr and Mrs Z have referred to an internal note made by the 
consultant dated 28 October 2021 in response to a request from Mr Zs cardiology clinic. 
That request noted Mr Z wasnt on treatment, and asked what his prognosis was.  
The consultant replied:
I am seeing him next Wednesday now to discuss whether to restart his [type of] 
therapy again. We havent discussed prognosis recently with him  when I met him a 
couple of years ago, we explained that his [type of] cancer was incurable and median 
survival was around 4-5 years for [people] with similar cancers to him. At this point, I 
would estimate that the prognosis is in the region of 12-18 months from his cancer, 
but clearly there is a wide variation either side of this. 
I understand and accept that this prognosis discusses a 12-month window, and the 
consultant went on to seek associated cardiology support for a combined approach to prolonging Mr Zs life for more than a year. 
However, in order for Mr Z to make a valid claim, the consultant would need to have stated 
that Mr Z had less than 12 months to live before 31 December 2020. The further assessment 
was not retrospective  it was a measure given in her professional view as at October 2021. 
As it stands, she has not set out clear evidence of the policy terms being met before the 
benefit expired. And so, despite my genuine sympathy for Mr and Mrs Z, I cannot instruct 
Zurich to meet their claim.  
My final decision
I am very sorry to write to Mr and Mrs Z with an outcome that I know will be a great 
disappointment for them. But, I have to be fair to both parties in a complaint. And for the 
reasons given, I find Zurich to have reasonably declined Mr Zs terminal illness claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman