DRN-4414275
The complaint
Mr M complains about British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) poor service, following an annual 
service under his appliance insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr M had his gas appliance initially serviced by BG in 2021. He said during the service the 
engineer removed the coals and marked the appliance as unsafe due to lack of coals. 
Mr M then instructed an independent engineer who carried out the service and supplied 
further coals. 
In 2022, Mr M contacted BG for an annual service. It sent an engineer. Mr M said the 
engineer took the coals off the appliance and couldnt put them back, as there was no 
manual. He then condemned the appliance. 
Mr M raised a complaint as he said that BG ought not to have started the service, knowing 
that there was no manual, just to then condemn the appliance. Mr M said he wanted BG to 
install a new appliance. He also complained about the poor service issues he experienced, 
namely the delays and poor communication. 
In its final response, BG accepted that there had been incidents of poor service. And for this 
it offered and paid Mr M, compensation of £50 for the trouble and upset this caused. It also 
said that it should never had kept the appliance on cover after the first engineer had 
condemned it. So, it refunded the cost of cover from 2022/2023. However, it said that it 
would not install a new appliance, as the correct decision had been made to condemn the 
appliance due to safety concerns. 
Mr M was given his referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. His view was that 
the engineer who had removed the coals to carry out the service, was right to condemn the 
appliance, as he wouldnt have been able to guarantee the safety of it, as the manual was 
missing. So, there was nothing further he could reasonably ask BG to do. 
BG accepted the view, Mr M did not. He reiterated that the engineer ought not to have 
conducted the annual service, when he already knew that the manual was missing. And as 
BG had started a service without due care and attention, they ought to be liable. So, he 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr M, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, and the evidence theyve provided. I think the main 
issue of this complaint is whether BG was fair to have condemned the appliance, without the 
full information it needed to complete the service. 
The first engineer sent by BG to service the appliance in 2021, marked it as unsafe due to 
lack of coals. Mr M instructed a third-party engineer who conducted a service and replaced 
some coals. 
In 2022, when the second BG engineer carried out the service, Mr M said that BG were 
aware that the manual (that he had been unsuccessful in trying to replace) was missing. He 
said that BG ought not to have started the service (by removing the coals), knowing that 
there was information missing. 
Ive had a thought about this, and I dont agree. So, Ill explain why. I do think that beginning 
the service without having the manual, seems like poor procedure. But despite this, I dont 
think BG was in a position to deem the appliance safe without the manual being present. In 
other words, even if it hadnt started to remove the coals for the annual service, as there was 
no manual available, it wouldnt have been able to deem the unit safe. 
Further, the engineer in his contact notes stated: Customer states he bought coals, which 
are obsolete, from a 3rd party. no guarantee that they are safe and no guarantee they were 
in the correct order as, again, no manual.
Consequently, I cant agree that the engineer was unreasonable,  in refusing to confirm that 
the appliance was safe to use, unless he was satisfied with all the components being 
present. And I think he raised concerns not only because of the lack of the manual, but also 
whether the third-party coals were actually safe to use with the unit. 
Accordingly, as BG was unable to confirm that the appliance was safe to use, it was 
condemned. And as this was a safety concern, Im persuaded that this was the correct 
approach. As a result, Im unable to reasonably ask BG to install a new appliance here, as 
Im not satisfied that it did anything incorrect.
BG has recognised that there were some poor service issues, namely poor communication, 
and some delays. It has offered compensation of £50 for the trouble and upset this caused. 
Having reviewed our guidelines on compensation awards, Im satisfied that this is a fair 
amount that reflects the error that it made. 
It has also reimbursed the cost of the contract (2022/2023), as it recognised that Mr M ought 
not to have been charged for this, given that it had condemned the appliance. I do think BG 
has been fair in putting things right. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why he 
referred it to our service. I understand that my findings are likely to be a disappointment to 
Mr M. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent seen enough evidence to 
show that BG acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman