DRN-1964945
 
complaint
Mr M complains about CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV's failure to cancel his 
insurance policies. 
background
Mr M held two policies with CIGNA  a hospital cash plan, and a personal accident plan. 
After having a claim declined by CIGNAin May 2018, Mr M made a complaint about the sale 
of his policies. CIGNA didnt uphold his complaint. Mr M thought hed cancelled his policies 
at this point. 
In October 2019, CIGNA called Mr M as it had sent him correspondence which had been 
returned marked as gone-away. Mr M complained to CIGNA as he thought his policies had 
been cancelled, and he wanted it to refund his premiums. 
CIGNA didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint, and so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said there was no evidence 
that Mr M had asked CIGNA to cancel his policies, so she didnt think CIGNA had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators findings, so the matter has been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
CIGNA has confirmed it doesnt have any record of Mr M requesting that his policies be 
cancelled. 
Mr M hasnt said that he wrote to CIGNA to request this, and instead seems to be under the 
impression he asked CIGNA to cancel his policies when he complained to it about the sale 
of the policies in May/June 2018. 
Ive listened to the call Mr M had with CIGNA about the alleged mis-sale of his policies. 
During that call, Mr M didnt ask for his policies to be cancelled. 
Ive also read the final response letter that CIGNA sent to Mr M on 7 June 2018 regarding 
his mis-sale complaint. That letter also didnt mention anything about the policies being 
cancelled.
Mr M says he didnt receive any renewal notices from CIGNA to make him aware that his 
policies were still in place. CIGNA thought this was because Mr M had moved without 
advising it of his change of address before the renewal notices were sent. I understand the 2018 renewal notice was sent in September 2018, however Mr M says he 
moved in November 2018. I therefore dont know why he didnt receive the renewal 
information. However, given that theres no evidence of Mr M asking CIGNA to cancel his 
policies (or CIGNA confirming that this had been done), and because CIGNA continued to 
collect monthly premiums from Mr Ms bank account after May 2018, Im satisfied Mr M 
ought to have reasonably known that his cover remained in force.
I therefore dont find that CIGNA did anything wrong by not cancelling Mr Ms policies in 
2018. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27July2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman