DRN-3466499
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they made on 
their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCDO) advised against all but 
essential travel abroad in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. That guidance remained in 
place until July 2020. In July 2020 the UK government introduced travel corridors which 
permitted UK citizens to travel to certain countries.
In July 2020 Mr and Mrs C went on holiday. They were due to visit three countries which Ill 
refer to as F, S and P. They planned to travel through F and S to P  at the time of their 
departure the FCDO was permitting travel to F and S, but not P. 
Unfortunately, Mrs C sustained an injury whilst she was in S. Mr and Mrs C continued on 
their journey to P, not realising how serious the injury was. On arrival in P Mrs C sought 
medical attention and received treatment. At the time she arrived in P the FCDO was still 
advising against all but essential travel there.
Mrs C claimed on her travel insurance policy for around €1000 of medical expenses. Great 
Lakes declined the claim on the basis that Mr and Mrs C were travelling to P against FCDO 
advice, which was excluded under the policy terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs C didnt 
agree because the injury occurred in S. Great Lakes maintained their decision to decline the 
claim and so Mr and Mrs C complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, he thought it was reasonable for Great Lakes to rely on the exclusion in the 
circumstances of this case. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They 
reiterated that the injury happened in S, which wasnt subject to the FCDO advice. In 
summary, they said that the fact that the incident occurred in S meant there was no impact 
on the risk that Great Lakes accepted. They thought it was important to consider the issue at 
a high level from the calculation of the premium, rather than just looking at particular words 
within the policy. Mr and Mrs C also gave some hypothetical examples of different scenarios 
which they said supported their position. So, I need to make a decision.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Its for Mr and Mrs C to demonstrate that they have a valid claim under the policy. But, as 
Great Lakes has relied on a policy exclusion to decline the claim it needs to demonstrate, on 
balance, that the exclusion has been fairly applied. 
The Insurance Product Information Document says on page 1:
What is not insured? 
Any trips when travelling against the advice of the Foreign and Commonwealth 
Office.
The policy terms and conditions say on page 5, under the heading Travel Checklist: 
Important Note
If you travel to a country to which the FCDO has advised against travelling, or 
advised against all but essential travel, you will have no cover under this policy.
Trip is defined under the policy as: 
Any cruise, holiday, business trip, leisure trip, volunteer trip or journey made by you 
within the area of travel shown in the Schedule which begins when you leave home 
and ends when you get back home or to a hospital, nursing home or medical 
institution in your home country, whichever is the earlier. 
Did Great Lakes unreasonably reject the claim? 
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
Mr and Mrs C had started a trip to P. Theyd left their home in the UK and were 
travelling to P, via F and S. 
When they left the UK the FCDO was advising against travel to P. That advice 
remained the same at the time they arrived in P. So, I think its fair to conclude that 
they were travelling to P against FCDO advice, albeit they were travelling to P via F 
and S.  
Mrs C was in S when she sustained her injury, although heres no evidence thats 
where the injury took place. Thats not to say that I think Mr and Mrs C are lying. But 
my role is to look at the overall evidence and theres no medical evidence thats 
where the injury occurred. So, I think Great Lakes has reasonably taken into account 
that theres no evidence the injury occurred in S, as opposed to P, when it happened. 
In any event, even if the evidence supported that the injury occurred in S, I wouldnt 
uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs C argue that their decision to travel to P made no 
difference to the risk Great Lakes carried. But, Great Lakes has decided what risks it 
is, and isnt, prepared to cover  its a commercial decision they are entitled to take. 
Mrs C was on her way to P when the injury occurred and thats what led to the claim. 
She sought treatment in P having entered the country against FCDO advice. And, 
based on the policy wording, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to conclude 
that the claim fell within the scope of the exclusion as she was travelling to P against 
FCDO advice. 
Ive taken into account all the points Mr C has made  including his own professional 
background and his discussions with senior members of the industry. But I need to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this individual complaint. And, having done so, I dont think there are any grounds upon which I can 
fairly direct Great Lakes to step outside the policy terms and conditions. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman