DRN-1635767
The complaint
Mr B complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited wouldnt pay for the 
damage he caused in an accident. It said his motor insurance policy didnt cover commuting. 
What happened
Mr Bs policy only covered claims for third party, fire and theft. In September 2019, Mr B 
damaged another car in an accident. He expected Watford to cover the cost of the other 
drivers repairs. But the accident happened when Mr B was driving home from work. Watford 
said his policy was limited to social, domestic and pleasure  (SDP) use. It said the damage 
to the other drivers car wasnt covered, as Mr B was driving outside the policys terms. 
Mr B said Watford hadnt asked him whether he used the car for driving to and from work. 
He thought he was covered for that and said he would have told Watford the car was used 
for commuting if hed been given the chance. Watford said he was asked about it when he 
renewed the policy, and that the details he gave were set out in his policy documents. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint. She didnt think Watfords approach 
(that Mr B was driving outside the terms of his policy) was correct. In her view, as Mr B was 
asked a clear question about the use of the car, to which he gave the wrong answer, the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) applied. 
The investigator pointed out that (under CIDRA) in order for Watford to decline the claim, it 
would have to show there was a qualifying misrepresentation. In order to do that, it would 
have to show that had it known the true facts it wouldnt have offered Mr B cover  or would 
only have done so on different terms. Watford told us it would have offered Mr B commuting 
cover at no extra cost. So the investigator said Watford should cover the claim.
 
Watford didnt agree that the complaint should be dealt with under CIDRA or that it should 
deal with the claim, so the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr B bought the policy, and again when he renewed it in 2018, he had a duty under 
CIDRA to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. The standard of care is 
that of a reasonable consumer. 
One of the considerations under CIDRA to determine whether there was a misrepresentation 
is whether the consumer was asked a clear question. At inception, Mr B was asked to 
choose an option to describe what he was going to use the car for. He chose SDP. At 
renewal, Mr B entered into a new contract with Watford. During the renewal call, Watfords 
advisor asked Mr B if there were any changes to his circumstances from the previous year, 
and he said there werent. She went on to ask these specific questions:
The type of cover youre on is third party, fire and theft? (and then) The vehicle will be 
used for social, domestic and pleasure only? 
   
Mr B answered Yes to both questions, confirming that he wanted limited cover, plus the 
restricted use he wanted the car to be insured for. I think the questions the advisor asked 
were clear. In my view, Mr B didnt take reasonable care when he confirmed to her that the 
car would only be used for SDP purposes. 
Policy documents were issued to Mr B after renewal. He was asked to read them to check 
everything in them was correct. The renewal covering letter said Mr B had chosen SDP 
cover, excluding commuting. And under Limitation as to use on Mr Bs Certificate of 
Insurance, driving to and from a place of employment was set out as excluded from cover. 
Mr B didnt tell Watford that some of the details set out in the documents were wrong. 
Despite Mr B having given the wrong details to Watford, under CIDRA, for it to take any 
action as a result, Watford would have to show that having the incorrect information made a 
difference to it. If so, that would be a qualifying misrepresentation. But Watford cant show 
that it wouldnt have offered Mr B cover for commuting  or that it would only have done so 
on different terms. When the investigator checked with Watford, it confirmed that Mr B could 
have had commuting cover at no extra cost. If there isnt a qualifying misrepresentation, 
under CIDRA an insurer cant take any action at all. In my opinion, that means even though 
Mr B gave Watford the wrong information, it cant decline to deal with the claim. 
I can see why Watford argued that Mr B was driving his car outside the terms of his policy, 
and why it believes the claim shouldnt be covered. But Mr B was asked about the type of 
cover he wanted and was also asked for what purposes he was going to use the policy. So I 
think CIDRA applies here. And I agree with the investigator that it wouldnt produce a fair 
and reasonable outcome if the claim wasnt covered, when Watford would have provided 
cover to Mr B for commuting for the same price he paid for SDP cover. 
Watford has asked whether wed uphold complaints in other cases where it appeared that a 
consumers policy didnt cover a claim, regardless of pricing. As each case is considered on 
its own merits, I cant give a specific answer to that general query. But In my opinion, for the 
reasons stated above, Watford should deal with the claim in Mr Bs case. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I require Watford Insurance Company 
Europe Limited to deal with the claim in line with the policys terms and conditions. Under the 
rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my 
decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman