DRN-3102176
The complaint
Mr M and Ms M have complained that, after paying administrative and survey fees of £2,000, 
Al Rayan Bank PLC declined their application for a Home Purchase Plan. To settle the 
complaint Mr M and Ms M would like the bank to reimburse the fees and to offer an apology.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr M and Ms M applied for a Home Purchase Plan with the bank. They paid 
a fee of £2,000 for the application and for a valuation report. The application was declined as 
it didnt meet the banks criteria on affordability. The bank sent a letter confirming this on 21 
October 2019, which Mr M and Ms M say they didnt receive. However, the sales adviser 
also confirmed to Mr M and Ms M at the time why the application had been declined.
The bank explained that Mr M was shown as a company director (and therefore self-
employed) rather than an employee of the company. Mr M and Ms M said this was not the 
case, but no further evidence was provided about this to enable the bank to reassess the 
application. As a result, the application was closed. A further copy of the decline letter was 
sent on 21 November 2019.
In March 2020 Mr M and Ms M complained about the way the bank had dealt with the 
application. They said theyd not received the initial decline letter sent and were unhappy 
about the bank not reimbursing the fees.
The bank acknowledged it should have sent the copy of the decline letter sooner than it did, 
and offered £50 compensation for this. However, the bank explained that its terms and 
conditions provided that it wasnt required to refund the £2,000 fees paid for the application 
and valuation.
Dissatisfied with the banks response, Mr M and Ms M brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened, but didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. He was satisfied that the banks decision to decline the application was fair. He did 
think thered been some customer service issues but thought the £50 offered by the bank 
was fair compensation for this, so he didnt recommend any further compensation was 
justified.
Mr M and Ms M didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a review of their 
complaint. They dont think the £50 compensation is a fair reflection of what theyve been 
through. They are also unhappy that they were told by the adviser to await the outcome 
letter so they could appeal the decline decision, but then didnt receive this and had to chase 
the bank for a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr M and Ms M would like to discuss their case with me before I issue a final decision. 
Its not part of our process for an ombudsman to discuss a complaint with only one party to 
the complaint before a decision is issued  because this could be construed as a one-sided 
hearing, and therefore procedurally unfair to the other party to the case. In any event, Im 
satisfied that I can reach a fair conclusion on the basis of the documentation thats been 
provided.
In his letter dated 9 August 2021 the investigator set out those parts of the banks terms and 
conditions which explained that the administration and valuation fees are not refundable. 
With specific reference to this complaint, the fee is not refundable if the application is 
declined because you have misrepresented yourself.
As part of the application process, Mr M and Ms M provided a copy of a contract which 
purported to show that Mr M was an employee of a limited company. However, he is, in fact, 
the sole director of the company, and as such is considered self-employed rather than an 
employee. I confirm I have checked records at Companies House to verify this and Mr M 
remains as sole director of the company.
Mr M also provided a letter dated 15 October 2019 purporting to be from his companys HR 
department, suggesting hed been employed as a consultant from 1 January 2019, that he 
was promoted to a permanent position on 1 July 2019 and that his probation period was 
waived. However, Mr M has been a director of the company since 15 January 2016 (and 
sole director since 13 February 2018). Furthermore, the person who purportedly wrote the 
letter resigned as a director and company secretary on 29 January 2016. 
Al Rayan is entitled to set its own Home Purchase Plan criteria. Decisions that the bank 
makes in respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular 
assessment, and whether it should offer a Home Purchase Plan and if so, on what terms are 
clearly discretionary matters for Al Rayans own commercial judgement that I would not 
interfere with.
Al Rayan has provided documentation about its underwriting of the application and the 
information it took into consideration which led the bank to decline the application. Im 
entitled to treat this as confidential, because it is commercially sensitive. But after 
considering this information, Im satisfied that Al Rayan reached its decision fairly, after 
taking into account all relevant factors, including (but not limited to) affordability, exposure to 
risk, and Mr M and Ms Ms specific circumstances.
In the circumstances, given the apparent contradiction in what the bank was being told about 
Mr Ms employment as against the information held by Companies House, Im satisfied the 
bank was entitled to reach the conclusion that the information with which it had been 
provided did not meet the banks underwriting criteria. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that
Mr M misrepresented himself, as described in the banks terms and conditions. This means I 
am satisfied there is no basis on which I can find the bank acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining the application.
I can see there were some customer service issues that the bank has acknowledged. It 
appears Mr M and Ms M didnt receive the initial decline letter sent on 21 October 2019 
(although theyd been made aware of the decision to decline the application by the sales advisor). However, even if theyd received the letter in October 2019, Im not persuaded this 
would have changed the outcome of the application or resulted in them being approved for 
the Home Purchase Plan.
I think the £50 offered by the bank for the customer service issues is fair and reasonable and 
proportionate to the error made by the bank. I can find no basis on which the bank is 
required to reimburse the application and valuation fees, given that the application was 
declined as a result of information provided by Mr M and Ms M which ultimately did not stand 
up to scrutiny.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I simply leave it to Mr M and Ms M to decide 
if they want to accept the £50 compensation offered by Al Rayan Bank PLC in full and final 
settlement of their complaint. I make no other order or award.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman