DRN-2303665
Complaint
Mr and Mrs R say Citibank UK Limited shouldve done more to help her when she was the 
victim of a scam.
Background
In June 2019, Mrs R received a text message that appeared to be from Citibank. It said that 
there had been suspicious payments made from her account and that she should contact 
Citibanks fraud prevention team straight away. The message included a number for her to 
contact. Unfortunately, the text message that started off this chain of events wasnt sent by 
Citibank, but by a fraudster. 
Mrs R called the number and was told that her money was at risk from fraudsters and the 
most effective way for her to protect herself would be to transfer it to a new account which 
had been set up in her name. Mrs R wanted to reassure herself that she was talking to a 
genuine Citibank employee. She asked how she could be sure that this was a genuine call 
from the bank. The scammer told her that he could call her back from Citibanks main 
contact telephone number, which he did shortly afterwards. Mrs R was still concerned and 
so she asked her husband, Mr R, to call Citibank on his own phone. 
He explained to the call handler that Mrs R had been contacted by someone claiming to be a 
work for Citibanks fraud prevention team. He said he wanted to make sure this was 
legitimate, and not a scam. Unfortunately, the call handler wasnt able to give a definitive 
answer to this question. All he was able to confirm to Mr R was that, if there had been 
fraudulent activity on the account, it wouldnt necessarily show up in the account notes that 
were visible on the system. They couldnt confirm one way or another whether the call Mrs R 
had received was a genuine one. Mrs R was persuaded by the scammer to transfer 
£7,675.09 to the safe account. 
She later discovered it was fraud and complained that Citibank hadnt done enough to 
prevent it. Citibank attempted to recover the funds from the receiving bank, but unfortunately 
no funds remained. It didnt agree that it couldve been expected to prevent the fraud. It said 
that fundamentally, Mrs R had authorised the payment and so it couldnt be refunded. 
Furthermore, the payment wasnt (in Citibanks view) an unusual one, so it couldnt be 
argued that they shouldve looked at it more closely in order to prevent fraud.
Finally, Citibank argued that Mrs R shouldve called the number on the back of her card 
before agreeing to make a payment. If shed done so, then the scam wouldve been 
prevented. It did offer Mrs R £100 in recognition of some difficulties she encountered when 
bringing her complaint. 
Mrs R was unhappy with Citibanks response, so she complained to this service. Her 
complaint was looked at by an investigator who upheld it. The investigator considered the 
payment to be out of character and that it ought to have attracted more scrutiny from 
Citibank. If Citibank had questioned the payment with Mrs R before processing it, the scam 
wouldve been quickly uncovered.
The investigator was also concerned about the way that Mr Rs call had been handled  the 
fact that Mr R had raised the possibility that a fraudster was pretending to be a Citibank 
employee before Mrs R had authorised a payment shouldve put Citibank on notice that 
theyd been targeted. Mr R was also a joint holder of the account from which the fraudulent 
payment was made  so there wouldnt have been any obstacle to simply transferring him to 
Citibanks fraud team. If theyd confirmed what Mrs R was being asked to do (i.e. transfer 
money to a safe account) then Citibank couldve warned her that this couldnt be a legitimate 
request.
Citibank disagreed with the investigators opinion. In response, it said that six months worth 
of statement data isnt enough to support an argument that this transaction was out of 
character. There were numerous previous transactions for similar values that were sent from 
the account. Citibank agreed that its agent couldve asked Mr R more questions when he 
called  but fundamentally, he was told that they should call on the main number to verify 
that this was a genuine call. This wasnt done.
Because Citibank didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and issue a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
consider relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Citibank is also expected to:
conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 
2) and to pay due regard to the interests of its customers (Principle 6).
identify and assist vulnerable consumers and consumers in vulnerable 
circumstances, including those at risk of financial exploitation (something recognised 
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations (BBA) February 
2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances)
look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam 
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  
Code of practice, which a number of banks and trade associations were involved in 
the development of)
This means that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a
bank should, in my opinion, fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.This is particularly so considering the environment created by the increase in sophisticated
fraud and scams in recent years  which banks are generally more familiar with than the
average customer.
Ive considered the arguments Citibank made about whether Mrs Rs payment was unusual 
and out of character. But I dont think I need to make a finding on that point. I say that 
because I find that Citibank couldve prevented the fraud if it had handled Mr Rs phone call 
differently.
Ive listened to that phone call. At the beginning of the call, Mr R said:
Shes [Mrs R] on the phone to someone allegedly from the Citibank fraud team with 
an aim to shutting down the account. She just asked me to phone you up to check 
whether that is showing on your systems as genuinely whats going on.
Unfortunately, this wasnt understood by the Citibank employee who asked Mr R which 
transactions he wanted to report as being fraudulent. Mr R went on to say:
I just need to know whether theres an ongoing fraud matter on my account or not. 
Are your fraud team trying to contact my wife?
[]
Were not sure if my wife is speaking to the Citibank fraud prevention team or not  
its in all of our interests to check that this true so is there any way that you can think 
of that I can verify that my wife is speaking to Citibank fraud prevention, rather than 
scammers.
I think this was a missed opportunity for Citibank to have prevented the scam. Mr R had 
specifically raised his concern that there was a possibility that the person his wife was talking 
to was not a legitimate employee of Citibank. 
The fact that he referred to the account being shut down ought to have alerted the call-
handler to the possibility that this was a scam. Its one of the characteristic features of a safe 
account scam and Id have expected the call-handler to recognise this. 
If Mr R had been asked some further questions, its likely that the exact nature of what Mrs R 
was being asked to do would have been uncovered  i.e. that she should transfer her money 
to a safe account. At that point, Citibank couldve explained to Mr R that this could not be a 
genuine request and that no Citibank employee would ask them to do this. If this had been 
done, I think its more likely than not that the scam wouldve been prevented.
Citibank also offered £100 in recognition of the difficulties Mr and Mrs R encountered when 
trying to notify them that theyd been victims of the scam. I think thats an appropriate sum in 
the circumstances.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
Citibank UK Limited now needs to: 
Refund the fraudulent payment back to Mr and Mrs Rs account. 
It should also add 8% simple interest per annum on that sum calculated from the 
date it was paid to the scammer until its refunded to Mr and Mrs Rs accountPay £100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience it caused to Mr and Mrs R
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman