DRN-3232848
Complaint
Mrs W has complained about overdrafts Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) provided 
to her. She says the limits on the overdrafts were irresponsibly increased and that the 
facilities were unfairly withdrawn.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs W and Nationwide had told us. She thought 
Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs W unfairly and so didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mrs W disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Ws complaint.
Nationwide needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Nationwide needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Mrs W could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Nationwide says it agreed to the initial applications and limit increases it did after it carried 
out credit searches. Its unclear whether Nationwide asked Mrs W anything else about her 
financial circumstances at the time. But it says there was nothing in the information it 
obtained from the credit reference agency which warranted further checks or suggested that 
what was being advanced was unaffordable. On the other hand, Mrs W has said that she 
couldnt afford the overdraft limits and one of her accounts didnt have much in the way of 
credits going into them. 
Ive thought about what Mrs W has said. But Nationwide was entitled to rely on the income 
going into one of her accounts to assess the affordability of both amounts, provided it was 
enough to sustainably repay the total amount advanced. I also think that it would be useful 
for me to explain that Mrs W wasnt required to repay the entire amounts of her overdrafts in 
one go. Mrs Ws overdrafts were revolving credit facilities and this meant that what 
Nationwide had to assess was whether Mrs W could repay the maximum amount she could 
borrow, plus any interest, within a reasonable period of time. 
Given what Ive seen of Mrs Ws income and expenditure, I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Nationwide to conclude that there was a reasonable prospect of her 
repaying what she owed within a reasonable period of time. So I dont think that it was 
unreasonable for Nationwide to have provided Mrs W with the overdraft limits it did at the 
time they were provided.
That said, while Nationwide didnt do anything wrong when initially providing the overdrafts 
and subsequently increasing the limits, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards   
Mrs W if it continued provided the facilities in the same way, in circumstances where it ought 
to have realised they were unsustainable. 
So Ive considered whether Nationwide monitored Mrs Ws accounts and acted 
appropriately. Ive looked through Mrs Ws statements throughout the period concerned. And 
its fair to say that Mrs W did use her overdrafts regularly. But while Im not seeking to make 
retrospective value judgements over Mrs W expenditure, nonetheless there are significant 
amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions as well as 
significant amounts being transferred from the account too. 
Equally its also worth noting that Nationwide did act and started reducing Mrs Ws limit when 
it looked like her ability to repay the overdrafts had changed from around 2017-2018 
onwards. And it started to work with Mrs W with a view to reducing her overdraft usage as 
well as what she owed. I appreciate that Mrs W says she was keeping to her repayment 
plans and it was unfair to remove the facilities in these circumstances. 
But the amount she was paying wasnt enough to clear the balances within a reasonable 
period of time and I dont think it would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for 
Nationwide to continue ignoring Mrs Ws obvious and apparent difficulty or that the overdraft 
had become demonstrably unsustainable for her, indefinitely. 
Furthermore, while Mrs W might not have wanted Nationwide to withdraw the overdrafts, and 
I understand why shes unhappy with adverse information being recorded on her credit file 
and worried about the impact this will have, I would have expected Nationwide to have taken 
corrective action anyway. After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or 
other adverse information, might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the 
borrower certain protections in relation to the overdraft debt. Bearing all of this in mind, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide did initially exercise forbearance and due consideration when     
Mrs W got into difficulty and it offered appropriate temporary relief. 
However, when it became clear Mrs Ws difficulties were longer-term and temporary short-
term measures were no longer appropriate, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for 
Nationwide to begin the process of taking corrective action in relation to Mrs Ws overdraft 
when it did and issue a correctly addressed formal demand notice, offering Mrs W the 
opportunity bring her account up-to-date before it would take any action. As Mrs W didnt, or 
more likely couldnt, take steps to comply with the formal demand for payment, Im satisfied 
that Nationwide was entitled to withdraw the overdrafts and take the subsequent action it did. 
So overall, I dont think that proportionate checks would have stopped Nationwide from 
lending to Mrs W in the first place and that Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably when    
Mrs W started to get into difficulty with her overdraft facilities. As this is the case, Im not 
upholding Mrs Ws complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs W. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns 
have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Nationwide of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect the outstanding 
balances remaining on the accounts should Mrs W still be experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman