DRN-2913140
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy at the interest and charges Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax (Halifax) added to their overdraft over the years. 
What happened
Mr W has made a number of complaints to Halifax about the fees added to his and Mrs Ws 
overdraft over the years. One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and eventually 
reached the conclusion Halifax hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr and Mrs W unfairly 
and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed and so the 
complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Ive seen that Mr W has in some of his correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to his account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts Halifax charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Halifax various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs W if 
it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr and Mrs Ws account in circumstances where 
it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr and Mrs W was 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Mr and Mrs W 
fairly and reasonably. I dont think that Halifax did treat Mr and Mrs W unfairly or 
unreasonably here though. I say this because having looked at Mr and Mrs Ws statements I 
cant see anything to suggest that Halifax ought to have realised they might have been 
experiencing financial difficulty prior to it being notified of this. I accept that Mr and Mrs W 
were using the overdraft regularly and there were some months - mainly in 2017 - where the 
account didnt see a credit balance, but the overdraft was eventually cleared in full with a 
large deposit. 
I accept what Mr W has told us that this was a loan, but there isnt any evidence here to 
show that Halifax was informed of this or that it had been informed that Mr and Mrs W were 
experiencing financial difficulty at this point in time. 
Furthermore, there were regular deposits of salary into the account and Mr and Mrs W were 
often able to bring the account into credit before once again going on to use their overdraft to 
make debit card transactions.  I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken 
together) mean that Mr and Mrs W werent experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt 
anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Halifax to any 
potential financial difficulty.
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr and Mrs Ws account was 
being used. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Halifax treated Mr and Mrs W 
unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs W. But I hope they understand 
the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman