DRN-2219825
Complaint
Miss K has complained that Progressive Money Limited (Progressive Money) irresponsibly 
provided her with an unaffordable loan. 
  
Background
Progressive Money provided Miss K with a loan of £5,000.00 in September 2016. This loan 
had an APR of 77.6% and a 36-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of 
£10,752.92 was due to be repaid in 36 instalments of around £300.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Progressive Money 
unfairly provided this loan as its checks ought to have alerted it to the fact that the lending 
was unsustainable for Miss K. Progressive Money disagreed with our investigator and the 
case was passed to an ombudsman to review the complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Miss Ks complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Miss Ks complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Progressive Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Miss K would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss K wouldve been able to 
do so?
2. Did Progressive Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Progressive Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Miss K would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
Progressive Money provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Progressive Money to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Miss Ks ability to make the
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Progressive Money had to think about 
whether repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Miss K. In 
practice this meant that Progressive Money had to ensure that making the payments to the 
loan wouldnt cause Miss K undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Progressive Money to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss K.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Progressive Moneys checks reasonable and proportionate?
Progressive Money says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with     
Miss K prior to providing her with this loan. It also carried out a credit check. Miss K declared 
that he was earning around £1,540.00 a month and had expenditure of around £1,149.00 a 
month. Progressive Money also obtained a payslip from Miss K which confirmed her salary. 
All of this left her with close to £400 a month which was more than enough to cover the 
payments to this loan. 
Bearing in mind Progressive Money obtained a significant amount of information on Miss Ks 
circumstances, Im satisfied that it did carry out a proportionate check  at least in terms of 
the information requested  before providing this loan to Miss K.
Did Progressive Money make a fair lending decision?It isnt enough for a lender to simply request information from a consumer before deciding to 
lend to them. So even if a lender may have requested a proportionate amount of information, 
it may still be the case that it will not have acted fairly and reasonably towards that consumer 
if it didnt carry out a fair and reasonable evaluation of the information it obtained. 
I say this because a lender is required to carry out an assessment of the borrowers ability to 
repay any credit advanced. And any assessment requires an evaluation, judgement, 
appraisal and scrutiny of any information obtained. Progressive Money says its assessment 
of the information obtained led it to conclude that Miss Ks loan was affordable for him as 
hed be able to sustainably make his repayments. 
Ive carefully considered what Progressive Money has said. But the credit check it carried 
out showed that Miss K had defaulted on 15 accounts, 1 satisfied CCJ, mortgage arrears 
and a missed payment on another loan. Miss K might have said that her husband paid the 
mortgage - even though it was in joint names. But the arrears suggested clear difficulties 
doing so. And I think that Miss Ks inability to clear the arrears even though they were for an 
amount less than the monthly disposable income she supposedly indicated there was a 
problem. Furthermore, the mortgage arrears and Miss Ks outstanding payday loans called 
into question the explanation Miss K provided about her defaulted accounts too.
Progressive Money might have insisted on the payday loans being cleared. And it might be a 
non-standard lender. But the sheer number of payday loans showing on the credit search 
together with the other difficulties on her accounts led me to believe that this loan was simply 
unsustainable for her and was always going to cause her repayment difficulties. As I cant 
see that Progressive Money did take this into account, I dont think that it made a fair lending 
decision when it agreed to provide this loan to Miss K.  
Did Progressive Money act unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss K in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Progressive Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss K in some 
other way. So I dont think Progressive Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards      
Miss K in some other way.
Did Miss K lose out as a result of Progressive Money unfairly providing her with this loan?
As Miss K paid a high amount of interest and charges on a loan that she shouldnt have 
been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what Progressive Money 
did wrong.
So I think that Progressive Money needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what Progressive Money needs to do put things right
Having thought about everything, Progressive Money should put things right for Miss K by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £5,000.00 
originally lent. Progressive Money should treat any payments made should the new 
starting balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be 
refunded to Miss K;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if there were any, from the 
date they were made by Miss K to the date of settlement;removing any adverse information recorded on Miss Ks credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Progressive Money to take off tax from this interest. 
Progressive Money must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if 
she asks for one.  
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint. Progressive Money 
Limited needs to put things right in the way set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman