DRN-3157966
The complaint
Mr S complains about TSB Bank plcs delay in dealing with his chargeback claim.   
What happened
Mr S arranged a car rental in advance of travelling abroad. On arrival, he collected the rental 
car and had to pay an accident deposit of €237.90 and a fuel deposit of €68  which would 
be refunded if he returned the car undamaged and with a full tank of fuel. Mr S says, on 
returning the car, the rental company inspected it and found no damage and a full tank of 
fuel. Mr S says he later checked his bank account and the fuel deposit had been returned 
but not the accident deposit. Mr S tried to raise this with the rental company but their phone 
number wouldnt connect and there was no email address. He tried to raise a query using an 
online tool but this kept coming up with an error. So Mr S raised a dispute with TSB Bank.  
Mr S says he provided TSB Bank with all supporting information but they were taking too 
long to deal with his dispute, so he complained. 
TSB Bank responded and confirmed Mr S had contacted their Disputes team in September 
2019 regarding the accident deposit. They said their Disputes team last contacted Mr S in 
February 2020 to say the invoice he provided didnt show evidence of his deposit. TSB Bank 
said their Disputes team had asked for further evidence to support Mr Ss case so they could 
raise this with the merchant. TSB Bank said, following this contact, they were unable to 
locate any response from Mr S. TSB Bank said if Mr S is able to provide evidence that he did 
respond to the Disputes team then TSB Bank will review this.       
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. He thought TSB Bank had acted unreasonably 
in their handling of Mr Ss dispute and recommended they review Mr Ss dispute and pay 
£150 compensation. TSB Bank disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
The information shows Mr S registered his claim with TSB Bank in September 2019. A few 
days later TSB Bank respond to say theyre having difficulty locating Mr Ss account and ask 
for further information. It appears this is then resolved by Mr S providing details to help 
locate his account. 
Mr S then chases in October and explains he hasnt received any further contact and also 
says he has copied all relevant documents and hand delivered them to his local branch. Mr 
S chases over a week later and refers to a phone call from TSB Bank a few days before, 
which he couldnt take, to say TSB Bank couldnt locate the file he says he hand delivered. 
Mr S then chases again in January 2020.            
System notes provided by TSB Bank show that the dispute was reviewed in February but the 
Dispute team were unable to read the documents as they werent in English so needed to be 
translated. The note says the Dispute team felt the invoice doesnt show a deposit being 
paid so they will need Mr S to provide evidence he is due a refund. TSB Bank say the 
documents were translated but they didnt show the information they required to submit a 
chargeback. They say they contacted Mr S in February and asked for proof he is due a 
refund but they didnt receive any further information so a dispute wasnt raised. I can see 
our investigator has asked for a copy of this communication but TSB Bank say they dont 
have it. 
As theres no evidence of the contact in February, either in the form of a copy of the 
communication or a record on TSB Banks systems, I dont believe any contact was made 
with Mr S. Im further persuaded this is the case as I can see Mr S has promptly taken action 
in relation to this dispute. Firstly, he registered his dispute a few days after returning from his 
trip. Secondly, when TSB Bank asked for further information to help locate his account, he 
responded promptly. And, finally, when he didnt receive any contact after he registered his 
dispute, he took proactive steps to hand deliver all relevant documents to his local branch. 
So, taking this into account, had communication been sent to Mr S asking for further 
information, I believe he wouldve responded promptly. 
TSB Bank say they didnt receive any further information so a dispute wasnt raised. In 
particular, they say Mr S hadnt provided evidence of his deposit. So, the next point Ive 
considered is whether this was reasonable. I can see Mr S emailed TSB Bank setting out the 
background to his dispute and explaining he had paid the car rental company an accident 
deposit of €237.90 and a fuel deposit of €68 when renting the car. Mr S says the €237.90 for 
the accident deposit hadnt been refunded to him. Mr S attached a copy of his car rental 
agreement and this shows he paid a total amount of €403.40. The rental agreement shows a 
car hire charge of €97.50 and a fuel deposit of €68. This leaves a figure of €237.90. Theres 
then a breakdown which provides a description and amount. The descriptions are 
Couverture Super Relax for €158.29, Couverture Mega Relax for €23.33 and Smart 
Return for €16.63. The combined total for these is €198.25, but after adding 20% tax as 
noted on the breakdown its €237.90. The information provided by TSB Bank shows Mr Ss 
bank statement showing an amount of €97.50 being debited on his account followed by an 
amount of €305.90  which is the €237.90 + €68. 
  
Taking this into account, I think the information provided by Mr S does show evidence of a 
deposit. The invoice and bank statement support the testimony given by Mr S to TSB Bank 
including the amounts he paid. So, its not clear what further information TSB Bank wanted, 
but I think there was sufficient information here of the deposit so it shouldnt have been the 
reason to not take Ms Ss dispute forward. I can see TSB Bank are now asking for further 
information from Mr S such as evidence of there being no damage to the rental car. TSB 
Bank should review the dispute and can ask for any further information they feel is relevant 
and necessary to support Mr Ss claim but, as mentioned above, they shouldnt decline to 
deal with the claim on the basis that Mr S hasnt provided evidence of his deposit.  
Having carefully considered all the information, I think there have been errors by TSB Bank 
here. There has been a lack of contact with Mr S which has led him to chase for updates, 
and delay caused by not sending Mr S a request for the further information they required to 
take his dispute forward. 
In addition to this, I dont think TSB Banks reason for not raising a dispute is reasonable 
here. Its clear these issues have had an impact on Mr S. Theres the inconvenience of 
having to chase TSB Bank and the frustration to Mr S at the fact that it has been over two 
years since he registered his dispute but it hasnt been raised - and this being based on 
grounds which I think are unreasonable. So, TSB Bank should pay compensation for the 
frustration and inconvenience to Mr S.    Putting things right
Ive taken the view that TSB Bank have made errors in their handling of Mr Ss dispute. So, 
they should review Mr Ss dispute in light of the fact they have evidence of his deposit being 
paid. TSB Bank can of course request any additional information they feel is necessary. TSB 
Bank should also pay compensation of £150 to Mr S for the frustration and inconvenience 
caused.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. TSB Bank plc must review Mr Ss dispute in 
light of there being evidence of his deposit being paid and also pay Mr S compensation of 
£150 for the frustration and inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman