DRN-3927722
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with Aviva Insurance UK Limiteds decision to withdraw her cover. 
What happened
Ms M had unemployment insurance with Aviva. This was sold on an advised basis through 
her bank. Ill be considering her complaint about alleged mis-sale separately. Ms M took this 
policy out back in February 2011. She was told the cover would be withdrawn from 1 April 
2022. Ms M said it wasnt made clear this could happen. Shed like Aviva to return the 
premiums she paid for the policy.
Aviva said the policy terms explain this is something that can happen. It said Ms M was 
given 120 days notice  which is in line with whats explained within its terms. Aviva said it 
decided to do this after reviewing its product range and realising it no longer wanted to offer 
this policy. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She explained that insurers, from time to time, 
will review products and can ultimately decide to withdraw them from the market. She said 
Aviva acted in accordance with the terms by giving the appropriate notice and that no refund 
of the premiums was due. 
Ms M disagreed, for mainly the same reasons as before, but she also added that the policy 
documentation weve relied on to make our decision isnt the same as she was provided at 
the time of sale. She was also unaware Aviva would keep the premiums shed paid should it 
withdraw the policy. And so, its now for me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it and for the same reasons already explained by 
our investigator. Aviva hasnt made a mistake here or treated Ms M unfairly. Its simply 
withdrawn this particular cover from the market  which its entitled to do. Ill explain why. 
To be clear, Avivas policy terms say;
How long does my Unemployment Choice Insurance run for?
Unless this policy is cancelled earlier by you or us, the cover will continue as long as you 
continue to pay your monthly premium on time. The policy will end, when:
We can cancel your policy
 Where we are unable to offer you an alternative product (on equivalent terms, level of 
cover and premium payable). In this event we will give you at least 120 days notice.
I should say this isnt an unusual term, insurers, like consumers, retain the autonomy to 
decide who to do business with. This is better known as its commercial discretion. Under this 
remit, Aviva is entitled to decide whether to continue to offer cover to its consumers, or 
whether to withdraw certain products. The above term explains what action Aviva will take, 
should it decide to do this. And so, Ive considered whether its followed this term in Ms Ms 
case. 
Im satisfied it has because Ms M was given 120 days notice prior to her policy being 
withdrawn.
Ms M argued weve not considered the original terms that were part of the policy. Shes 
provided some evidence for this, but Im not persuaded by it. I say that because the 
evidence she provided was a schedule of insurance  which isnt the same as policy terms. 
The schedule outlines other information, like payments and the level of cover provided, and 
so isnt relevant to the crux this complaint. Im satisfied Aviva provided the relevant policy 
terms in this case because theyre consistent with her policy details. 
HSBC also said it tried to find an alternative, similar policy, on equivalent terms, but was 
unable to find anything suitable as other policies were much more expensive than Ms Ms 
original policy. So, I think its done everything it said it would as explained by the policy 
terms. 
Im also making no award to return the premiums Ms M paid whilst she was on cover. Its 
unclear why Ms M thinks Aviva should do that considering shes had the benefit of cover 
since 2011. I understand Ms M may not have ever claimed on her policy, but that doesnt 
mean Avivas commitment to her policy was any less. It continued to offer her protection 
throughout that time and so its only fair that Ms M pay for it. 
Further, Ive not seen any evidence of Ms M being told shed receive back any premiums 
should the policy be cancelled. Theres also nothing within the policy terms that says thisll 
happen. Had Aviva taken the last premium and cancelled the policy within that 30 days 
period covered by that premium, then a retrospective adjustment would have been needed. 
Id have asked Aviva to issue a refund on a pro-rata basis  but that didnt happen and so I 
make no award here either.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman