DRN-1237326
 
The complaint
Mr S complains Domestic & General Services Limited (DGI) broke the seals on his game 
console controllers.
What happened
Mr S game console stopped working, so he made a claim for repairs under his policy with 
DGI. DGIs repairers repaired a fault with the consoles controllers, and sent them back to 
Mr S. When Mr S received the controllers, he noticed the manufacturers seal had been 
broken. Mr S felt this would limit his ability to sell the console in the future, so complained to 
DGI.
DGI looked into Mr S concerns and sent him their final response letter. In this they explained 
they dont use manufacturers to carry out repairs. And that sometimes the manufacturer seal 
needs to be broken to carry out the fix. DGI also explained Mr S had to use one of their 
repairers  because they had one available at the time of his claim. Mr S remained unhappy, 
so brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr S complaint. He explained the manufacturers original seal 
needed to be broken so that the controllers could be repaired. However, the seals were 
replaced with ones from the repairers. As the repairs werent carried out by the 
manufacturer, our investigator didnt think it was unreasonable for the repairers to use their 
own seals. Our investigator also felt DGI had acted in line with their policy terms by using a 
repairer within their network.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator, so his complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding Mr S 
complaint. I know this isnt the outcome he wanted. But Ill explain my reasoning below.
Manufacturers seal
Mr S has said the lack of manufacturers seal means he wont be able to sell his controllers 
in the future. Firstly, I need to say that our service cant make a finding on something that 
hasnt happened. And at this stage, from Mr S testimony, Ive not seen anything to suggest 
Mr S is trying to sell his console or controllers at this moment in time. So I wont be making a 
finding on Mr S not being able to sell his controllers. However, I have looked into what 
happened to the manufacturer seals that were on the controllers when they were sent to 
DGIs authorised repairer.
Its not disputed that Mr S controllers had manufacturer seals on them when they were sent 
for repair. But Mr S is unhappy these seals were broken and not replaced with a like-for-like 
seal. DGI has said the manufacturers seal had to be broken so that the controllers could be 
repaired. Ive seen a report of the repairs that were carried out, and photographs of the 
controllers. Having considered this information, Im satisfied it was necessary for the 
manufacturer seals to be broken or removed so that the controllers could be repaired. DGIs 
repairers needed to get inside the controllers  and I cant see how they could have done 
that without the manufacturer seals being affected. So I cant fairly say DGI did anything 
wrong those seals were removed and subsequently damaged.
When Mr S first contacted our service, he told us about the damaged manufacturer seals. 
But when DGI sent us information, they clarified that their repairers replaced the 
manufacturer seals with one of their own. They also explained this was done to ensure it 
was clear repairs had been carried out by an authorised repairer. And as the repairs werent 
carried out by the manufacturer, the seal couldnt match the ones that came with the 
controllers when Mr S bought them.
Ive seen a copy of Mr S policy booklet. And I cant see any reference to repairs being 
carried out by the relevant manufacturer. Rather, the policy simply says repairs will be 
carried out by DGIs approved repairers. As thats what happened with Mr S controllers, I 
wouldnt expect them to put manufacturer seals on the controllers when the repairs were 
carried out. Thats because theyre not the manufacturer.
During our investigations it became apparent that DGIs repairers had in fact attached their 
own seal. But Mr S had removed them. So I cant agree DGIs actions left Mr S without 
appropriate seals on his controllers. Im satisfied DGI and their approved repairers did what 
they needed to do to ensure it was clear authorised repairs had been carried out on Mr S 
controllers.  
Pay and claim
Pay and claim means a policyholder can have their equipment repaired by their own 
repairer, and claim the cost back from DGI. Mr S is unhappy this option didnt apply to his 
claim despite DGIs adviser saying this was an option under the policy.
Ive read Mr S policy and under the heading 3. Repairs, it says You must use our 
approved engineers, unless otherwise agreed with us.  And this is a common term in 
policies like Mr S. At the time Mr S made his claim, DGI had an approved repairer available. 
So I dont think it was unreasonable DGI used their own repairer  especially because DGI 
would ultimately be responsible for ensuring the repairs were carried out correctly.
DGI explained the pay and claim policy is only used if using their own repairers isnt an 
option. And that sounds reasonable in the circumstances. It may have been helpful if this 
had been explained to Mr S. However, I cant see this caused him any inconvenience above 
and beyond that which was part and parcel of having damaged controllers that needed to be 
repaired. DGI did repair Mr S controllers in line with their policy terms, so I cant fairly they 
did anything wrong in respect of this point.
Taking everything into consideration, Im satisfied DGI handled Mr S claim in a reasonable 
manner. So I wont be asking them to do anything to put things right.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2020.
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman