DRN-2522157
The complaint
Mr D is complaining that Monzo Bank Ltd blocked access to his current account.
What happened
Towards the end of November 2020, Monzo blocked some features of Mr Ds account. They 
told Mr D that he needed to complete the identity verification process on their banking app in 
order to continue to use his account normally again.
Mr D was very unhappy about this. He asked Monzo why he needed to verify his identity 
again, having done so several times recently. And he was more upset they didnt give him a 
reason for asking him to do it again.
When Mr D brought his complaint to our service he said the blocks on his account meant he 
hadnt been able to transfer money to pay his rent, or his bills. And he said hed incurred a 
penalty for his council tax as a result. Mr D said he was able to use his card in shops but all 
his direct debits had been cancelled, causing him great inconvenience. 
When our investigator looked at Mr Ds complaint, she didnt think Monzo had done anything 
wrong. She said theyd explained to Mr D that he needed to confirm his identity  and told 
him how to do this. But he hadnt tried to go through the process theyd explained, so she 
couldnt hold Monzo responsible for the inconvenience and stress Mr D had experienced.
Mr D disagreed with our investigators view. He reiterated hed verified his identity a number 
of times already that year and was unhappy that he hadnt been told the reason it was 
needed. Mr D asked for someone else to look at his complaint so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate it will be a disappointment to Mr D, Im not upholding his complaint. I 
can see how frustrated he is with Monzo but I dont think theyve done anything wrong. Ill 
explain why.
I can see that on 20 November Monzo sent Mr D a notification through their banking app 
which said: You logged in on a new device. Weve blocked some things until were sure its 
you. I appreciate Mr D says he never saw this notification  but it gives some context as to 
why Monzo asked Mr D to verify his identity.
On 27 November Monzo told Mr D directly via the online chat that he needed to complete 
the identity verification process on the app. They asked Mr D if hed recently logged in on a 
new device and Mr D said hed reset his phone about a week previously. Monzo told Mr D 
that once the verification process was completed hed be able to use his account normally 
again. They explained that they wanted to ensure that his account was safe.
I appreciate Mr Ds frustrated by how often hes had to verify his identity during the past 
year. Monzo have a duty to protect their customers and its up to them what processes they 
put in place to do that. Its clear that in Mr Ds case, Monzo were simply following their 
process, so I cant say they treated Mr D unfairly. 
I know Mr Ds upset that Monzo didnt explain why they were asking him to verify his identity 
again. Banks dont have to give their customers detailed explanations for why they might 
block an account or ask for additional security information. But its clear from the online chat 
that it looked like Mr D had logged into his account from a new device  so they wanted to 
make sure it was him. Im satisfied this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman