DRN-2098802
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Target Servicing Limited are holding him liable for a loan that he 
says he didnt take out.
What happened
In November 2007, a joint loan was taken out in the names of Mr W and his partner at the 
time. It was secured against his property and included a PPI policy. Mr W and his partner 
signed for the loan, as witnessed by a staff member, who identified Mr W using his driving 
licence and personal documents.
The loan was partly paid into Mr W and his partners joint account, and partly used to pay off 
a previous loan that was secured against their property.
In 2009, a solicitor acting for Mr W and his partner got in touch with the creditor, arguing that 
they shouldnt have to repay the debt based on technicalities.
Later that year, a claim was submitted for the PPI policy. The policy was refunded to Mr W 
and his partner, and the loan was re-written without PPI. Mr W and his partner signed the 
new agreement.
The loan fell into arrears. Mr Ws partner kept the creditor up to date with their financial 
situation, including passing on details of Mr Ws employment, proof of his income, bank 
statements and so on. In 2014, the interest was frozen.
In 2018, the loan was transferred to Target. Mr Ws partner passed away, and later, Mr W 
got in touch.
Mr W explained his partner was abusive and hed left the home around 2014. Hed only 
returned after the partner passed away, and had learned of the loan for the first time when 
he read the arrears notices. He said his partner must have fraudulently taken out the loan in 
his name. He explained his partner controlled the finances and wouldnt let him look at his 
bank statements or post.
Target investigated, but held Mr W liable for the payments in dispute. They explained the 
loan had benefitted Mr W by paying off a previous loan of his and getting paid to an account 
jointly in his name. They said Mr W had signed for the loan, though they accepted they 
couldnt conclusively say that the signatures involved matched his ID. And according to the 
contact notes, Mr W had previously offered to visit the creditors offices in person to make 
payments to the loan.
Mr W came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons.
Mr W didnt agree with our investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. He 
offered to provide documents showing that his partner had taken out other debts in his name 
and that hed been found by a court not to be liable  however, he has not as yet provided 
these.
I sent Mr W and Target a provisional decision on 20 July 2020, to explain why I didnt think 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
The loan application, demands and needs statement, credit agreement, and legal charge on 
the property were all signed by Mr W along with his partner at the time. This was witnessed 
by a staff member, who also signed to confirm theyd seen Mr W sign the documents.
The staff member identified Mr W using his driving licence. They took a photocopy of the 
licence and wrote down the licence number. This matches the genuine licence that Mr W 
sent a copy of as part of this case. The staff member also identified Mr W using his work 
invoices, mortgage statements, bank statements, and household bills.
The signatures on the application documents are not wholly the same as the signature on 
the driving licence. But signatures do vary somewhat. The style is similar to Mr Ws genuine 
signature, and I dont think theyre sufficiently different to conclude that theyre not his real 
signatures. I think its more likely that they were real.
The staff member involved was satisfied that the person signing was Mr W, and that he 
matched the photo on Mr Ws genuine driving licence. That person was able to give over 
Mr Ws genuine details, his genuine documents, and was able to broadly replicate his 
signature. On the balance of probabilities, I think that person was most likely to have been 
Mr W.
So I think its most likely that Mr W was aware of this loan and agreed to take it out at the 
time. Ive also considered the other evidence involved.
The disputed loan paid off another loan that was secured against Mr Ws property, and was 
paid into what he says was his only bank account. So while I appreciate what Mr Ws told us 
about his access to the bank statements and post, he did still benefit from the loan, as it 
cleared his previous debt and was deposited in the account he used for all his spending.
The loan application had Mr Ws direct contact details, including the same mobile phone 
number that he gave our service. If someone was defrauding Mr W, it doesnt seem likely 
theyd use his correct contact details, as that would risk the creditor contacting Mr W directly 
and him realising there was a fraudulent loan in his name. Indeed, according to the contact 
notes, Mr W was in fact aware of the loan at the time.
The loan received repayments over a number of years, which again seems strange if it was 
fraudulent. Indeed, Mr Ws partner initially went to some lengths to keep in touch with the 
creditor, keeping them up to date with their and Mr Ws work situation, sending in relevant 
documents to verify their situation, and arranging affordable repayments when they fell 
behind. From the contact notes, it appears that Mr W helped with making the repayments 
himself, such as dropping off a cheque in person at the creditors offices.
There was a successful PPI claim against this loan, which appears to have again benefitted 
Mr W. And it looks like when the loan was re-written, he signed the new agreement.In addition, it looks like Mr W employed a solicitor to speak to the creditor on his behalf  so 
again, it seems he was aware of the loan.
I understand that Mr W has gone through a truly tough time over the years. I accept that he 
may genuinely no longer remember this loan when its been well over a decade since it was 
taken out. But in summary, there is substantial evidence that Mr W was present when this 
loan was taken out, that he signed for it, and that he was aware of the loan in the immediate 
time afterwards. Whereas I dont have any substantial evidence which shows its unlikely or 
implausible that he took it out. So I think its most likely that he did take this loan out, even if 
he no longer recalls doing so. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a 
difficult message for Mr W to receive. But given the evidence I currently have, and the 
balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I currently think its fair for Target to hold Mr W liable for 
the loan in dispute.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
17 August 2020. Mr W didnt respond, while Target re-sent some of the loan documents to 
reiterate that they thought the loan was Mr Ws.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that while I understand if Mr W no longer 
recalls this loan, I think its most likely that he did take it out at the time.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint in this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman