DRN-2644399
complaint
Mr S is unhappy because HSBC UK Bank Plc did not reimburse the money he 
transferred to a fraudster. 
background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, Mr S has engaged the services of an independent financial advisor (IFA) 
since 2015 in preparation for his retirement. Mr S has explained the IFA has authority to 
invest on his behalf and that while he does occasionally speak with the IFA by phone or 
face to face, the majority of their communication is via email.
In July 2019, Mr S and his wife received an email from a fraudster pretending to be his 
IFA. The fraudster used an email address almost identical to the genuine IFAs, but with 
one letter removed. The fraudster told Mr S she was recommending a 35 days notice 
deposit account with the interest rate fixed at 2.45% AER. The fraudster provided an 
additional terms document, as well as literature on the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).
Over the next week Mr S exchanged several emails with the fraudster asking additional 
questions about the account on offer, such as what FSCS protection would be available if 
the account was joint with his wife and which funds should be moved into the new 
account. Satisfied with the answers received, Mr S confirmed he would be transferring at 
least
£80,000 initially. In August 2019 Mr S transferred £80,000 from his savings account to 
his current account, then proceeded to send £25,000 of this to the account set up by the 
fraudster via mobile banking. Mr S confirmed to the fraudster that his account had a 
daily transfer limit of £25,000 but that he would be making further future payments.
Two days later Ms S attempted to make a second transfer of £25,000 by mobile banking, 
but this was referred to HSBCs fraud team. The fraud team spoke to Mr S by phone and 
asked some additional questions about the payment. These included whether it was Mr S 
that made the payment, how he got the account details, whether he had transferred money 
to the account before and if he was sure the account was given to him from his IFA and 
that there was nothing wrong in it. Mr S confirmed hed received the account details from 
his IFA and he had no reason to suspect there was anything wrong as hed agreed to do it. 
On this basis the payment was released.
Mr S made a third transfer the following day by mobile banking, again for £25,000  so in 
total sent the fraudster £75,000. The fraudster advised Mr S hed receive a welcome pack 
in 2-3 weeks with information on how to view his account online. In September 2019, 
having not received anything, Mr S chased the fraudster for an update but received no 
response.
He attempted to send another chaser in October 2019 but his email bounced back as 
undeliverable. At this point Mr S noticed the discrepancy in the email address, so 
contacted his IFA on her genuine email address requesting an update. His IFA explained 
that the
emails werent from her and Mr S realised hed been the victim of a scam. He reported 
the scam to HSBC on the same day  5 October 2019.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more 
of those exceptions applies in this case.
HSBC has said Mr S made the payments without having a reasonable basis for believing 
they were genuine payments. HSBC considers that Mr S ought to have done more checks 
to make sure the emails hed received were genuinely from his IFA.
However, HSBC did recognise it hadnt met the standards it was required to under the 
CRM Code. It said it could have provided a more effective warning to Mr S that the 
payments he was making could be part of a scam. HSBC therefore refunded 50% of his 
loss, as per the provisions of the CRM Code.
I am also mindful that when Mr S made these payments, HSBC should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And 
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud.
Mr S feels he should be refunded in full and so he referred his complaint to us. An 
investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint  he felt Mr S shouldve been reimbursed in full under 
the Code and due to the nature of the payments, he felt HSBC couldve prevented Mr Ss 
loss. HSBC didnt agree with the investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision.
findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded the money Mr 
S lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement 
apply in the circumstances of this case.
HSBC should in any event have intervened when Mr S made the first payment to 
the fraudster as the payment was unusual and if it had done so, I am satisfied the 
fraud would have come to light and the loss prevented.
Mr S has received a refund of 50% of his loss already. In the circumstances, 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably refund the remaining 50% Mr S lost.
The money Mr S lost originated from a savings account held with HSBC. Im 
persuaded HSBC couldve prevented the loss and so to put Mr S back into the 
position hed have been in had HSBC done what it ought fairly and reasonably 
to have done, it should also pay interest calculated at the savings account rate from the date the scam payments were each made to the date HSBC returns 
the funds.

I have carefully considered HSBCs representations about whether Mr S had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different view. In particular I am not persuaded that the consumer failed to take the requisite 
level of care required for the firm to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM 
Code.
Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mr S lacked a reasonable basis for believing 
the transactions to be genuine because:
The fraudster used an email address almost identical to the one used by his 
genuine IFA. I think, considering the similarities in the email address, it was 
understandable that Mr S didnt identify the discrepancy. Im also satisfied that 
at the time, Mr S wasnt aware of email impersonation scams  the scam Mr S 
fell victim to. And HSBC has accepted it didnt take steps to warn Mr S about 
such scams. In the absence of this knowledge, I dont consider it to be 
reasonable for Mr S to closely analyse the email address to check it was 
exactly the same. Its not realistic for firms to expect customers to look out for 
tiny discrepancies in an email address, particularly when a firm has not alerted 
a customer to the possibility of a fraudster posing as a recognised contact.
I dont think the content of the fraudsters emails should reasonably have raised 
suspicions with Mr S. The initial email contained the IFAs genuine business 
footer, as well as convincing account literature and a realistic investment 
returns rate. There were no pressure sale tactics applied that mightve indicated 
something was amiss, and the fraudster was able to give plausible answers to 
Mr Ss questions about the account.
Mr S has said that he largely communicates with his IFA via email and Ive 
seen email chains Mr S had with his genuine IFA alerting Mr S to opportunities 
and obtaining his agreement to invest. So it wasnt out of the ordinary to have 
received contact in this form. Mr S didnt call his IFA before making the 
transfers, but based on the convincing communication he had with the fraudster 
I dont think it was unreasonable for him not to have done so. Im also mindful 
that in the absence of any warnings on these types of scams from HSBC, Mr S 
was not alive to the possibility he was dealing with a fraudster, and therefore 
had no reason to depart from his usual method of communication.
It is not clear whether or not HSBC have refused to fully reimburse Mr S on the basis 
that they consider him to have been grossly negligent in his actions though they 
remarked that Mr S mightve been grossly negligent following the investigators 
opinion. For completeness, I do not think Mr S was grossly negligent in making any of 
the payments. Ive already set out above why I think Mr S had a reasonable basis for 
belief that he was making legitimate payments, and gross negligence would require a 
very significant degree of carelessness on Mr Ss part. I am not persuaded his actions 
or inaction in this particular case meets that very high bar.
I dont think Mr Ss actions show a lack of care that goes significantly beyond what a 
reasonable person would have done in the same situation, and in the absence of any clear 
reasons from HSBC, Im not persuaded HSBC has established a case for it here given all 
of the circumstances.Im also persuaded HSBC couldve prevented Mr Ss loss by doing more to protect him 
when he attempted to make the first payment.
Having reviewed Mr Ss statements for around six months leading up to the scam I think the 
first transaction was out of character and unusual. All other payments out of the account were 
for under £4,000, other than one internal transfer of £20,000 Mr S made to another of his 
HSBC accounts.  Whereas the first payment Mr S made the to the fraudster was to a new 
payee and was the maximum amount he could send in one day. I therefore think the first 
transaction was sufficiently out of the ordinary for HSBC to have intervened at this point, and 
to have asked further questions before processing the payment. HSBC ought fairly and 
reasonably to have asked Mr S how hed been contacted about the investment opportunity 
and how hed been provided with the account details he was paying. This is because both 
email impersonation scams and investment scams were prevalent at the time; something Im 
satisfied HSBC was aware of.
Ive no reason to doubt Mr S wouldnt have answered HSBCs questions honestly and in 
response to his answers, HSBC ought fairly and reasonably to have informed Mr S about the 
possibility this might be a scam.
Had HSBC told Mr S about the existence of email impersonation scams and how he can 
protect himself  for example, calling his IFA directly first on a known number - I think Mr S 
would more likely than not have made additional checks before making the payment. Had Mr 
S done so, Im satisfied this scam wouldve been revealed and Mr Ss loss prevented.
I understand HSBC did make a call to Mr S before processing his second payment, but I dont 
think this call went far enough to protect Mr S from financial harm. In this call Mr S confirmed 
the account he was transferring the funds to had been set up by his IFA for him - and that he 
hadnt checked if the first payment hed made had been received into his new account. The 
telephone advisor didnt ask any further questions about the account opening process, or 
suggest Mr S ensures his account had been credited. The advisor also didnt discuss email 
impersonation scams with Mr S and how they might feel, or give Mr S any advice on how to 
ensure it was his genuine IFA he was speaking to. The advisor did ask if Mr S was sure the 
account was given to him by his financial advisor and that there was nothing wrong with it, 
but without any context surrounding this question, I think Mr Ss response that he had no 
reason to suspect anything is wrong was reasonable.
For clarity, my findings that HSBC ought to have prevented Mr S from losing the money he 
sent to the fraudster have a limited impact on the outcome of this complaint given I have 
decided Mr S shouldve been reimbursed under the provisions of the CRM Code. The impact 
relates to the interest payable only. 
decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint against 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund Mr S the £37,500 he lost to the scam
Pay the respective account interest rate at the time, on the £37,500, from the date 
each payment was made to the date of settlement
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman