DRN-3151259
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with his motor insurance provider, Aviva Insurance Limited. He says Aviva
were made aware of an incident he reported and they should have done more to help him as
he has now been left with legal costs and fees to pay which he cannot afford.
Mr K also complains that Aviva shared his details with a third party solicitor and that he was
given advice not to pay any legal costs or fees.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision to both parties setting out why I didnt think Mr Ks complaint 
should be upheld. Ive copied the background and findings from my provisional decision 
below which now form part of this decision. 
What happened 
On 1 August 2018 Mr K was unfortunately in an incident where a car drove into the back of
his car while he was stationary at a junction. The third party admitted liability.
On 2 August 2018 Mr K contacted Aviva to let them know what had happened.
The third partys insurer, Q Insurance, is also part of the Aviva Group and Mr K spoke with Q
Insurance on 3 August 2018. Q Insurance arranged for Mr Ks car to be repaired by Garage
S, and also arranged a courtesy car for Mr K.
Shortly after speaking with Q Insurance on 3 August 2018, Mr K was contacted by a third
party about the incident. Mr K understood this to be a solicitor. This third party solicitor
arranged for C Solicitors to contact Mr K. C Solicitors then helped Mr K to submit a personal
injury claim against Q Insurance.
On 14 August 2018, following no further contact from Mr K since 2 August 2018, Avivas
notes record that Mr K was not claiming under his policy and so Aviva didnt take things
further and closed their file on the matter.
And while Q Insurance had arranged to repair Mr Ks car, it did not accept Mr Ks claim for
personal injury. As Mr K disputed this, the matter went to court.
On 5 November 2020 the dispute was heard at court. The courts decision did not go in Mr
Ks favour as Mr K was deemed to have brought a dishonest personal injury claim and so he
was held liable for costs totalling around £10,000.
Mr K contacted Aviva to let them know what had happened at court, that he disagreed with
the courts decision, and to seek help to cover the legal costs he had incurred. However,
Aviva explained they hadnt done anything wrong as theyd never processed a claim for Mr K
and theyd been unaware of the issue going to court.
Mr K said Aviva had been aware of everything because hed reported the incident to them, Q
Insurance were part of the same group and Garage S was also linked to Aviva. Furthermore,
Mr K said hed contacted Aviva in around June/ July 2020 to say he was unhappy with his
solicitors and he said C Solicitors had also contacted Aviva in 2018 to check the legal cover
he had under his policy. Mr K felt all of this shouldve put Aviva on notice to help him.
Mr K had also initially thought C Solicitors had been instructed by Aviva as they had called
so soon after his conversation with Q Insurance and knew about the accident. After later
learning that C Solicitors and the initial solicitors that contacted him were not connected to
Aviva in any way Mr K complained that Aviva had shared the details about his insurance and
the incident with unknown third parties.
Aviva continued to disagree with Mr K that they shouldve done something and referred Mr K
to the terms of his policy which showed, amongst other things, that any legal costs would
need to have been approved and authorised by Aviva  which they had not been. Aviva did
refer Mr K to the legal helpline (in November 2020) that was available to him as part of his
cover as Aviva was not able to give legal advice. Mr K therefore spoke with IM Solicitors and
said he was told by them not to pay any legal costs.
Avivas notes record that IM Solicitors said they were unable to help Mr K because hed used
his own solicitors.
Aviva also said Mr Ks details had not been shared with any third party and they explained it
was a known problem within the industry for unauthorised third parties to call individuals who
had been in accidents.
Mr K brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator considered Mr Ks complaint and
concluded it should not be upheld as they felt Aviva had acted fairly in the circumstances.
Mr K didnt accept the investigators findings. He said the investigator had not commented on
the conversations that had taken place on 2 and 3 August 2018 where he says he was told
Aviva and Q Insurance were the same company. And nor had the investigator dealt with his
submissions that C Solicitors had contacted Aviva in November 2018. Mr K also maintained
hed contacted Aviva in June 2020 to complain about the solicitors he thought Aviva had
appointed and that Aviva should have helped him more at that point.
As the investigator and Mr K were unable to reach an agreement the case has been passed
to me to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to first say that while there are several parties involved in what has happened
following the incident on 1 August 2018, this complaint concerns only the actions of Mr Ks
insurer, Aviva. Concerns Mr K has about any other parties connected to this matter do not
form part of this decision.
When an insurer handles a claim, they must, amongst other things, handle claims promptly
and fairly and provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and provide
appropriate information on its progress.
In Mr Ks case Im satisfied he didnt make a claim through his insurer Aviva, and from the
submissions available I think Mr K was made aware that he was not sorting out the matter
through his own insurer.Ive listened to both calls from 2 and 3 August 2018. The call on 2 August 2018 was with
Aviva. During the call Mr K is told that Q Insurance is a different department of Aviva and is
the same insurance company. In the call Aviva also say to Mr K that it is better to claim
through the third party insurer (in this case Q Insurance), but if he didnt hear from Q
Insurance that he could call Aviva back and Aviva would open things at their end.
The following day Mr K spoke with Q Insurance who explained that while Aviva was their
parent company, Q Insurance acted separately to Aviva as an insurance company. It was
explained to Mr K that the benefits of claiming through the third partys insurer would mean
no impact to his own policy. And so during the call with Q Insurance Mr K agreed to go
ahead with them to arrange the repair of his car (rather than go back to Aviva, and claim
through his own insurer).
As noted above, Aviva closed their case file for Mr K on 14 August 2018. And Q Insurance,
as per the discussion with Mr K, made arrangements for a courtesy car and to repair Mr Ks
car.
Given there was no mention of any personal injury during either of these phone calls and Mr
K expressed no intention of pursuing a personal injury claim at that time, I dont think the
suggestion by Aviva to claim through the third partys insurance was unreasonable. As while
Q Insurance wouldnt be acting on Mr Ks behalf  because he was not their policyholder  Q
Insurance raised no objections to fixing Mr Ks car and arranging him a courtesy car. So I
dont think Aviva did anything wrong here.
Mr K says he thought the third party solicitors who contacted him on 3 August 2018 were
connected to Aviva. Im not sure what may have been said to Mr K in this call, but Ive seen
no evidence to suggest these persons were more likely than not linked to Aviva.
Mr K hasnt, to date, produced any paperwork to support on what terms he entered into a
relationship with C Solicitors to deal with this matter for him. I think it would be typical to see
something that would confirm whether the legal representation was acting at the instruction
of the insurer or not.
Mr K has suggested an email dated 22 November 2018 which he supplied us with (from C
Solicitors to him) supports that C Solicitors contacted Aviva and put Aviva on notice about
what was happening. However, I cant agree. The email thanked Mr K for his policy schedule
and said it had been referred to the relevant department to see whether C Solicitors could
accept it as evidence of legal cover or whether they required a specific response from Aviva.
I also think its reasonable to say that if C Solicitors were acting at the instruction of Aviva it
would be unlikely they would need confirmation of Mr Ks insurance cover.
The communications Ive seen involving C Solicitors make no reference to having a
relationship with Aviva and Ive not seen anything to show Aviva or Q Insurance told Mr K to
expect a call from a solicitor.
Based on the above, I think its more likely than not the personal injury claim Mr K submitted
against Q Insurance was handled by a solicitor acting separately to Aviva, this was therefore
outside of Mr Ks insurance and on balance its difficult for me to say Mr K wouldnt have
been aware of this.
Ive considered Mr Ks reasons for thinking Aviva shouldve been on notice to help him
sooner. But Ive not seen anything to support it would have been reasonable for them to do
so.The terms of Mr Ks policy required him, during a claim, to engage with Aviva, provide
relevant information, documentation and evidence to settle a claim or peruse a recovery.
And any decision to pursue a legal claim would have required agreement with Aviva on a
solicitor and a discussion about the prospect of success for such a claim. None of this
happened. Although Mr K says he contacted Aviva around June/ July 2020, theres no
evidence of this that I can see. And so it appears Mr K made no contact with Aviva between
2 August 2018 when he notified them of the claim and 10 November 2020 when he let them
know about the courts decision.
Even if Mr K had been clear about wishing to claim under his legal cover at the outset, I cant
be certain Aviva would have agreed and authorised any legal cover for a personal injury
claim. It follows that I therefore cant exclude the possibility Mr K may have still chosen to
seek his own solicitor anyway to make such a claim against Q Insurance. It would also strike
me as odd for Aviva to have taken their own group solicitors to court in the circumstances
given the costs involved (Mr K was seeking personal injury costs amounting to a few
hundred pounds).
I understand Mr K now accepts Aviva is not connected to C Solicitors or the initial solicitors
he says first called him, but he says Aviva shared his information with third parties when they
shouldnt have. However, Ive not seen any evidence of this so its difficult for me to say
Aviva has done something wrong here. And unsolicited calls are a known issue. I can also
see Aviva tried to help Mr K by referring him to their general legal helpline in November 2020
to see if there was anything to be done. Any concerns about what Mr K was told by IM
Solicitors is a separate matter.
I understand Mr Ks frustration that hes paid for an insurance policy and he feels it is now
not helping him when he needs it. However, based on what Ive reviewed I dont think its fair
in the circumstances to hold Aviva responsible for what has happened since the incident in
2018. Mr K didnt claim under his policy following the incident, and Ive seen nothing to
persuade me that Aviva should now reasonably step in given theyve had no involvement in
what appears to have been a separate personal injury claim Mr K has made through his own
solicitor.
Responses to my provisional decision 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions following my provisional 
decision. 
Aviva confirmed receipt of my provisional decision and said they had nothing further to add. 
Mr K responded to my provisional decision with further points and provided a number of call 
recordings relating to his case. Ive not listed Mr Ks points here, but have considered them 
collectively below in my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Ks additional submissions and listened to the call recordings. Having done 
so, my decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why. 
A large number of Mr Ks recent submissions relate to his concerns about how he was 
represented in court by his barrister and how C Solicitors dealt with his case. Mr K also 
talked about how C Solicitors wouldnt reply to his queries about their fees. Im aware of Mr Ks frustrations with what happened with C Solicitors, his barrister and what 
went on to happen at court, as well as what hes said about IM Solicitors. And Im aware Mr 
K is particularly upset about how the court viewed him. That said, these are not Avivas 
actions. As I explained in my provisional decision I can only look at what Aviva is responsible 
for and whether they acted fairly in the circumstances of this case  so to be clear, I am 
unable to consider the courts findings or the actions of any solicitors or Mr Ks barrister. 
Mr K maintains that Aviva shouldve realised what was happening and stepped in to support 
him  he refers again to contacting Aviva in June/ July 2020. Unfortunately, there is still no 
record of this contact Mr K says took place. Avivas submissions dont show anything, and 
Mr K has been unable to provide anything to persuade me that the call happened. Mr K has 
said this call is when he found out that C Solicitors were not linked to Aviva  so even if I 
were to accept this call happened, I think it would be reasonable to question why Mr K 
wouldve continued with C Solicitors representing him if he had such real concerns about 
them, particularly given the scheduled court date was still at least a couple of months away 
and had not yet taken place. 
Mr K also raised his concerns about being told different things by different staff members at 
Aviva, notably in relation to whether money had been paid to C Solicitors through his legal 
cover and that Aviva had told him to not pay the legal costs. 
Mr K had numerous calls with Aviva, speaking to many different members of staff and I 
understand why Mr K found some of the information he was given apparently inconsistent. 
But Ive not seen any impact on Mr K because of any confusion there may have been. Aviva 
was able to confirm with Mr K that no payment had been made to C Solicitors under his legal 
cover  Mr K has told us C Solicitors are not asking him for any monies. And while he had 
initially been told to hold off paying the legal costs associated with his court case (as Aviva 
wanted to check things), Aviva did clarify a few days later that they would not be picking up 
these costs for Mr K and that he could seek independent legal advice if he wanted to. 
Mr K maintains that Aviva has treated him unfairly and they should pick up the legal costs in 
question. In my provisional decision I set out what needed to happen for Aviva to agree a 
claim under Mr Ks legal expenses cover. It might help Mr K if I further explain that simply 
because he had legal cover on his policy it did not automatically mean a claim would be 
accepted. 
I realise Mr K is unhappy with Aviva and feels that the various parties have worked against 
him in this matter, but based on the available evidence and submissions I cant say that 
Aviva has acted unreasonably or applied Mr Ks policy terms unfairly in the circumstances of 
this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman