DRN-2317429
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with property and rental valuations carried out on his property by Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc trading as Post Office Financial Services (BOI) and complained that BOI 
didnt forward his appeal to the valuers. He is also unhappy BOI would not accept a rental 
lease he had arranged. 
What happened
Mr S applied for a buy-to-let mortgage with BOI through a broker in August 2019. He hoped 
to borrow around £240,000 and intended to use some of the funds to repay an existing 
mortgage on the property, as he already owned it, and the remainder to purchase a 
residential property. Mr S valued the property at £600,000 and expected the monthly rental 
income to be £1,450.
BOI arranged for a valuation to be carried out on the property. This valued the property at 
£375,000, with an expected rental amount of £1,350 per month. Based on the valuations 
provided, BOI said the maximum it could lend was £223,448, which included product fees 
that Mr S asked to have added to the loan. This left Mr S with a shortfall. 
Mr S submitted an appeal in relation to the valuation to his broker, who in turn submitted it to 
BOI, on 2 September 2019. BOI responded to Mr Ss broker and said Mr S had not provided 
sufficient information to appeal the valuation and so it didnt pass the information to the 
valuers.
On 5 September 2019 Mr S indicated he would like to proceed with the lower mortgage 
amount offered, but hoped to increase the loan amount if his appeal was successful. He also 
complained to BOI the following day about the property and rental values, as he said these 
were incorrect. 
BOI responded to Mr Ss complaint on 20 September 2019. It said it uses a panel of RICS 
qualified valuers to carry out mortgage valuations on its behalf as it isnt a property expert. It 
said any valuation is the opinion of the valuer.  
BOI said it required comparables to support the rental figure provided by the valuer. It said if 
a challenge is made regarding the market value or market rental value then the information 
used to challenge the valuation must be in the same format as the information used by the 
valuer. And this means information gathered from the internet or evidence about what a 
family member or friend paid in rent for a property wont be accepted. It also said any 
transactions should have taken place within the last six months. BOI said it wont overrule a 
decision made by a panel valuer and it only permits one challenge regarding a property or 
rental value, so that matters dont continue indefinitely.
BOI issued a mortgage offer to Mr S on 23 September 2019. Mr S hoped to let the property 
through a housing association and so forwarded the relevant lease to BOI on 27 September 
2019. BOI referred the lease to its legal department who were concerned about some 
clauses within it and said it wouldnt proceed with the lease as it stood. Mr S decided not to 
proceed with the mortgage application on 15 October 2019. 
BOI wrote to Mr S on 28 October 2019, in response to further questions raised by him. It 
said its focus should remain on the cause for complaint and so it would respond to that 
alone. It said the appeal information Mr S provided did not meet industry-wide recognised 
standards and so it didnt forward it to the valuation firm for their consideration. It also said 
although it initially told Mr S that rental agreements were in the public domain, it had already 
explained by phone that this was incorrect and it has apologised.
Mr S was unhappy with BOIs response and complained to this service. He said BOI only 
confirmed at the end of the process that it would not agree to the property being leased to a 
housing association, even though he had informed it of this from the start. Mr S also said the 
valuation company said his supporting information was sufficient for a revaluation and that 
another lender provided a significantly higher valuation for the property and rental income. 
He said BOI also refused to answer further questions he raised after it had issued its final 
response. He wants to be compensated for the financial loss he experienced, as he said 
there was a delay in letting the property. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Mr S was sent the details of the 
valuation challenge procedure that explained what evidence would be accepted or declined 
and Mr S was given the opportunity to appeal. Looking at the housing association lease, our 
investigator said BOI liaised with its legal department before declining and it was within its 
rights to do so. 
When Mr S responded to our investigators assessment, he said he had provided the actual 
rental offer for his property from a housing association, one of the rental valuations provided 
by the surveyor and offered to provide private rental details for a relative. He said this 
information was ignored. He said BOI didnt provide any details about how an individual like 
him could obtain actual rental details. 
Mr S did not agree with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 October 2020. I said I intended to come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and not uphold the complaint, but I relied on information that 
hadnt been available to the investigator. I gave both parties until 31 October 2020 to 
respond with any further comments.  
Mr S responded and Ive summarised his comments below: 
Mr S asked for an explanation as to why the surveyors firm felt that information Mr S 
provided would justify a review of the valuation once the bank had referred it.
Mr S said it hadnt been taken into consideration that the valuations he later achieved 
were higher, which he felt justified his original concerns. He said all he wanted was 
the opportunity for a second opinion from another valuation.  
Mr S wanted to know how it was determined that the comparable properties he 
submitted for review were different and why properties with 3 bedrooms that he had 
submitted were ignored. 
Mr S said house prices have risen since the properties were previously sold.
Mr S asked how he could provide recent sold transaction details when these 
properties havent been sold recently. 
Mr S asked how the ombudsman or BOI could make this decision given that neither 
is a professional surveyor and that referring the matter to the surveyors firm could 
have made an objective decision. Mr S asked how he would be expected to obtain the relevant information from estate 
agents without signing any contract to use their services and said BOIs guidelines 
indicate that it wouldnt accept web adverts or estate agents letters. 
Mr S provided the information he sent to BOI to challenge the rental valuation and 
said this contains information that justifies a rental valuation review. 
He asked if it would be best practice to review the lease once the initial mortgage has 
been approved in principle. 
BOI responded and had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made, including the comments made by 
Mr S in response to my provisional decision. I havent responded to each of Mr S comments 
individually, but I can assure Mr S that they have been taken into consideration. 
Ive limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is 
whether BOI acted fairly when it didnt submit the information provided by Mr S when he 
challenged the valuations to the valuer and when it waited until after the mortgage offer was 
issued to check the housing association lease. 
I cant see that Mr S complained to BOI in relation to his concerns about the housing 
association lease. But BOI has given this service permission to look at this complaint point 
now. 
Ive first of all looked at the issue of whether it was fair for BOI not to submit the valuation 
appeal information provided by Mr S to the valuers.  
I think its important to note that banks and other mortgage providers are allowed to rely on 
information provided by valuers, as they are not experts in property valuations. Having 
properties valued by experts is an important part of the lending decisions they make. 
I can see that Mr S submitted information to BOI on 2 September 2019 in support of his 
appeal. This included a letter from the housing association offering to lease Mr Ss property, 
subject to confirmation, at £1,450 per month. It also included information about three rental 
properties that were being advertised at that time on a national property website. Two of 
these rental properties were four bedroom houses and the other was a two bedroom, new 
build flat. 
Mr S also submitted information, from the same national property website, in relation to 
house prices in his local area. These showed the selling prices of three to seven bedroomed 
houses between 2011 and 2018. Mr S also provided additional information about factors that 
have increased house prices in his area over the past few years. 
BOI emailed Mr Ss broker on 2 September 2019, after it received Mr Ss appeal, and told 
the broker that it wasnt able to use this information for the appeal. It provided what I think 
was a comprehensive outline of its appeals process. It said it requires details of comparable 
properties. And, in relation to rental properties, it said Mr S would need to provide 
information about completed lettings, within the last six months, of similar property types, 
size and location. BOI said that although a number of emails were received from Mr S and his broker following 
BOI saying it couldnt use the information provided for the appeal, it said Mr S did not 
resubmit any additional comparable information.  
Having looked at all of the information submitted by Mr S to appeal the valuations, Im 
satisfied that it didnt meet the criteria outlined by BOI and so BOI acted fairly when it 
refused to submit it to the valuers. I say this because I can see Mr S submitted information 
that included sold prices in relation to three-bedroom properties, but this was not up to date 
information  the most recent sold price dated from June 2018. And several of the properties 
had more bedrooms than Mr Ss property. So I think the information was either out of date or 
the properties submitted as comparable were very different to his. And the rental information 
was for properties that werent yet let and two were bigger properties than Mr Ss. One had 
less bedrooms, but was a very different type of property. 
Mr S also mentioned that he was willing to provide information about a property rented by a 
family member and he also asked BOI to take the housing association rental offer into 
consideration. But the housing association offer doesnt fit into BOIs criteria for information 
about completed lettings. And while I take the view that the information from the family 
member could have been considered, as long as it could be independently verified, Im 
satisfied that it would have been necessary for all of the appeals criteria to be met by Mr S 
before BOI needed to consider his appeal, and this wasnt the case. 
Ive also looked at whether it was reasonable to expect that Mr S would be able to obtain the 
information BOI said he needed in order to make an appeal. This is because it asks for 
information that might not necessarily be available to a consumer. But BOI has confirmed 
that it would accept information obtained from letting agents, who would most likely have 
access to information from well-known property websites that the general public wouldnt 
have access to. 
So, given the above, Im satisfied that BOI acted fairly when it said Mr S did not submit 
information in the correct format to appeal his property and rental valuations and so I think 
BOI acted fairly when it declined to pass this on. 
I know Mr S felt the surveyors, because they are professionals in this field, are in the best 
position to make an objective decision about the information he provided for his appeal. But 
BOI are allowed to ensure the information being sent to the valuers fits specific criteria 
before its passed on. 
Mr S was also unhappy that BOI only confirmed at the end of the process that it would not 
agree to the property being leased to a housing association, even though he said he had 
informed it of this from the start.  
BOI has provided copies of emails from Mr Ss broker that show his broker made enquiries 
with BOI prior to submitting the application and was told BOI would accept a housing 
association lease, as long as it was for no more than two years. And emails show that Mr Ss 
broker was aware the lease would need to be checked by BOI before it was accepted. 
BOI issued the mortgage offer on 23 September 2019. Mr Ss broker emailed it on 
25 September asking for a placeholder so that the lease could be uploaded. BOI said it then 
received the lease on 27 September, referred to its legal department on 30 September 2019 
and the outcome was then sent to the broker on 8 October.
BOI do accept housing association leases and all parties were aware the lease would need 
to be checked by BOI. So its not the case that BOI wouldnt agree in principle to the property being let to a housing association  its that BOIs legal department didnt agree to a 
number of specific terms in that particular lease. 
I dont think BOI needed to check the lease in advance of the mortgage offer being made. I 
think its reasonable for it to want to be certain it was in a position to offer Mr S a mortgage 
before it sent the lease to its legal department to be checked. So Im satisfied BOI acted 
fairly when it checked the terms of the lease after it issued Mr Ss mortgage offer. 
Mr S told this service that the survey carried out by the bank he eventually took the 
mortgage out with valued the property and rental valuations significantly higher than BOI. 
And Mr S said the rent he achieved was higher still. And he said this supports his point that 
the BOI valuation was significantly lower than it should be. That might well be the case, but 
Im not looking here at the valuations themselves. These are provided by a valuer 
independent of BOI and BOI are allowed to rely on these. And the actions of the valuer, 
including what it might have said about the information provided by Mr S justifying a review 
of the valuation, falls outside the jurisdiction of this service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman