DRN-4143486
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as V, complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund money 
it lost after sending money to a fraudulent payee.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So I wont repeat them all here. 
The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Bank of Scotland is expected to 
execute authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in dispute that 
V was scammed. But nor is it in dispute that the payments were authorised. So the 
starting position is that Vs liable for them.
There are some situations where we believe that banks  taking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practice  ought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have 
looked at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the 
payment.
Ive considered whether Bank of Scotland ought to have realised V was at risk from 
fraud. If Bank of Scotland failed to intervene appropriately when it should have done, 
and that failure led to a fraudulent loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
There were three fraudulent payments made on the same day for just over £11,000. 
Given this was a business account, there were several large payments in the months 
preceding these payments, some of which were made on the same day. So I dont 
think the value or frequency was unusual enough for Bank of Scotland to have 
stepped in. 
Vs representative highlights that Bank of Scotland shouldve been concerned that 
these payments went to a personal account. Im not sure that Bank of Scotland 
wouldve had this information available to it when the payments were made. But 
either way, I dont think its enough, by itself, to suggest that V was at risk of fraud. 
Afterall, there are legitimate reasons why a business may pay a personal account. 
For example, someones wages. 
Taking this all into account, I consider it reasonable Bank of Scotland didnt detect a 
fraud risk in the circumstances  and simply processed the payments in line with Vs 
instructions.
As well as considering whether Bank of Scotland ought to have prevented Vs loss, 
Ive considered whether it ought to have done more to recover it. When V reported 
the fraud, Bank of Scotland contacted the receiving bank on the same day. But, 
despite chasing, it received no positive response. So I dont think theres more it 
could have done. And given that the scam didnt become known until some months 
after the fraudulent payments, I think its unlikely there wouldve been any money 
available to return. 
I note that Bank of Scotland offered to pay £100 compensation for delays in its 
handling of this issue. While I know its very little compared to what V wanted to 
resolve things, I think its a fair reflection of this particular service issue. 
Overall, I appreciate this will be hugely disappointing for those working for V, who 
were victims of a cruel and convincing scam. But given the circumstances of this 
case, there isnt a general expectation for Bank of Scotland to reimburse V as a 
victim of a scam. So my consideration is focused on whether Bank of Scotland is at 
fault for failing to stop or recover its losses. And for the reasons Ive explained, Im 
not persuaded it is here. That means I cant fairly hold it liable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Emma Szkolar
Ombudsman