DRN-3861857
The complaint
Mr J complains about how much UK Insurance Limited t/a NIG (UKI) paid out for a claim on 
his motor trade insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J has a motor trade insurance policy with UKI covering his car. 
He was involved in a collision with a third-party vehicle in June 2021. Mr J admitted 
responsibility for the collision. 
The third-party claimed from their own insurer, which in turn recovered the money itd paid 
out in the claim from UKI in September 2021. UKI paid about £2,176 for the cost of repairs 
and hire car charges. 
Mr J says hes lost No-Claims Discount (NCD) and his premium increased at renewal by 
£700.
Mr J works in the motor trade and estimated that the cost of parts would be about £300 and 
would be able to be fixed within one day. 
He feels that the cost of repairs has been hugely inflated and he asked for a breakdown of 
the costs and to be able to view the repaired car.
UKI looked into the claim and said its costs werent inflated.
Mr J remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint and didnt uphold it. She said she thought UKI 
had acted reasonably. Shed looked at the breakdown of costs and pictures of the damage 
which seemed consistent, as was the hire car period. She said she thought UKI had reduced 
Mr Js NCD correctly and he wouldnt be able to view the third-party vehicle.
Mr J didnt agree with the view and he asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why.
I can see from UKIs file that it looked carefully at Mr Js case when he told it about his 
concerns of the amount being claimed. I have looked at the repair invoice and photos of the 
damage Mr J caused to the third-party vehicle and they seem to be consistent. Ive also 
looked at the hire car costs which seem reasonable. 
UKI has provided evidence that its engineers who assess damage are in-house to control 
costs. It has also said its engineers have the same approach to own-damage or third-party 
claims, that is to say they work to control costs rather than inflating claims. It has also said 
that it cannot force a third-party claimant to use a particular repairer.
I think thats a very important point to make  Mr J didnt tell UKI about the collision when it 
happened, and UKI was informed about it when the third-party insurer claimed from it in 
September. By this time, the repairs had been done and the claims cost was simply being 
recovered from UKI. So UKI was in the position where disputing the amount being claimed 
might involve a costly legal challenge. 
If Mr J had told UKI about the collision sooner, UKI may have been in a better position to 
examine the costs earlier which seems to be Mr Js key concern. But by not telling it about 
the collision, UKIs position was potentially compromised. 
But I dont think that matters in this case. UKI has provided evidence of its process and 
procedures and how it controls its claims costs, and I think it has acted fairly and reasonably 
throughout.
UKI has said that, because the claim was recorded as Mr Js fault, this would have an 
impact on Mr Js premium when his policy came to renewal. In addition, I can see that Mr J 
has said hed lost some NCD which would further increase his premium. I cant see from 
UKIs evidence whether reducing the claim amount slightly would have reduced Mr Js 
renewal premium in proportion, but I think its fair to say that it would have only affected it in 
a minor way. The main reason for Mr Js premium increase at renewal was that he was at 
fault for the collision, not the amount paid out by UKI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman