DRN-2205731
The complaint
Mr D has complained about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited defaulting his account.
What happened
In February 2019, Cabot bought Mr Ds consumer credit mail order account from the original 
creditor. It was in arrears, but had not yet defaulted. Cabot tried to get in touch with Mr D, but 
didnt hear from him until August 2019, when he phoned them following an arrears notice.
Mr D went through his income and expenditure with Cabot and set up a repayment plan. The 
plan was to pay £8.85 weekly, which was just enough to meet the minimum contractual 
payments and slowly pay towards the arrears. However, Mr D did not make a payment in at 
least one week out of every month, which meant the account fell further into arrears.
In November 2019, Cabot sent Mr D an arrears notice, and he phoned them again. The 
advisor explained that Mr D needed to keep up his minimum payments and clear the arrears, 
otherwise theyd have to default the account. He said theyd default it once there were six 
months worth of arrears. In order to hold off a default, Mr D reinstated the payment plan. But 
he fell behind again.
On 3 January 2020, Cabot sent Mr D a default notice, explaining that if he didnt clear the 
arrears in full by 30 January 2020 then the account would default.
Mr D phoned Cabot to discuss his options. At first, the advisor reiterated that Mr D needed to 
clear all his arrears by the end of the notice period, otherwise the account would default. But 
as the call went on, the advisor became more muddled. Three times during the call, Mr D 
asked whether if he made reduced payments then Cabot would refrain from defaulting the 
account. On each occasion, the advisor prevaricated and only said there was the potential of 
a default. Following this, Mr D agreed to start a repayment plan again, which would just 
about cover the minimum payment and slowly pay off the arrears.
As Mr D didnt clear all of the arrears by 30 January 2020, the account defaulted.
Mr D complained, saying he was misled into thinking that if he made some repayments he 
wouldnt get a default. He felt that the threat of a default had unfairly pressured him into 
paying a minimum payment he couldnt afford. He asked for the default to be removed.
Cabot felt theyd been clear about things in writing, but agreed their phone advisors had 
been unclear. They offered £100 compensation, and offered to remove the default if Mr D 
now paid off the arrears in full. However, Mr D wasnt able to clear the arrears, so the default 
has remained.
Our investigator looked into things independently and felt Cabots offer was fair. Mr D didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I agree with our investigator that while Cabot got 
things wrong, theyve already made a fair offer to resolve the complaint. I understand that 
Mr D feels strongly about this matter, and that this decision will come as a disappointment to 
him. But Ill explain my reasoning.
While Mr Ds repayment plan would have been enough to meet his minimum payments and 
pay off some of the arrears, this only wouldve been the case if hed kept up with the plan 
every single week. The problem here was that there were regularly weeks where Mr D didnt 
make these payments. Mr D made no payments for 10 weeks out of 25  or 40% of the time 
 including missing at least one week per month. That meant that each month, his total 
repayments were not only too little to bring his arrears down, they were too little to meet his 
minimum repayments  so his arrears actually went up.
Cabot have to give credit reference agencies an accurate picture of whats going on. That 
means if someone doesnt meet their minimum payments and goes into arrears, Id expect 
Cabot to report this. And if someone falls sufficiently behind  often around three to six 
months worth of arrears  Id usually expect Cabot to register a default as appropriate. Id 
also expect Cabot to keep their customer updated with the status of the account and give 
them fair notice if theyre falling behind or at risk of a default. So while I understand Mr Ds 
point of view, I dont think Cabot were unfairly pressuring him by explaining he was in arrears 
or by setting out the default process. I think that in doing this, they were giving him an 
accurate picture of the situation and of what was really going to happen if he couldnt meet 
his payments or bring his arrears down.
Ive listened to Mr Ds calls with Cabot, including when he went through his income and 
expenditure with them. And I think they were fairly comprehensive in making sure that his 
budget included enough for his reasonable costs, and in checking that the repayment plan 
was affordable. And his repayment plan only just covered the minimum payment and some 
extra to chip away at the arrears  so if hed paid anything much less, he wouldve only fallen 
further into arrears.
Now, I do agree with Mr D that Cabots phone advisors were not clear enough about parts of 
the default process. For example, in the November 2019 call they said Cabot would only 
default the account if there were six months worth of arrears, when Cabot were able to 
register a default before that point if appropriate. And in the January 2020 call, I think the 
advisor should have stressed the accounts status more clearly, and been clearer that if Mr D 
didnt clear all his arrears by 30 January that the account would default. Instead, I can see 
how Mr D left that call with the impression that he could still avoid a default by making 
reduced repayments  and that was misleading.
I can understand why Mr D would like the default to be removed in light of Cabots unclear 
advice. But while I sympathise with him, I dont think that would be fair. In the November 2019 call, the advisor was clear that Mr Ds account would default quite 
soon if he didnt bring his arrears down, even if the advisor was mistaken about exactly how 
many months arrears could lead to a default. But following this, Mr D still consistently 
missed repayments and made less than his contractual minimum payments each month. So 
it seems unlikely to have made a difference even if the advisor had been more accurate 
about exactly when the account could default.
Similarly, in January 2020, Mr D told Cabot that he was unable to clear his arrears in full by 
the deadline. Then in the February, Cabot offered to remove the default retrospectively if he 
paid off his arrears, but he was again unable to. So even if the January advisor had been 
clearer that Mr D had to pay off his arrears in full to avoid a default, it doesnt seem likely that 
this wouldve made a difference either  as ultimately, Mr D wasnt able to pay the arrears by 
the deadline.
I should also mention that even if Cabot werent quite as clear as they should have been on 
the phone, I think their written correspondence with Mr D was clear about the status of the 
account and about what he needed to do to avoid a default.
Since Mr D consistently didnt meet his contractual minimum payments, was a good number 
of months behind and falling further into arrears, and was unable to clear his arrears in 
response to the default notice, I think it was reasonable that Cabot defaulted the account 
when they did. And while I agree that the phone advisors werent as clear as they shouldve 
been, it doesnt seem likely that clearer advice would have avoided the default. So while 
I understand Mr Ds position, I do not require Cabot to remove the default. 
I do think that Cabot caused Mr D unfair stress and confusion by being unclear. We cant 
undo the stress thats been done, but we often tell businesses to pay compensation  to 
acknowledge that they got something wrong and the impact it had. Cabot have offered to 
pay £100 compensation here, and in the circumstances I think thats fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Cabot have already made a fair offer to resolve Mr Ds 
complaint. They should pay the £100 compensation, if theyve not done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman