DRN-2751191
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard didnt do enough to 
help her when she was in financial difficulty and has unfairly registered a default.
What happened
Miss B had a credit card account with Barclaycard. She was unable to make payments and 
contacted Barclaycard. She says it didnt help her and that a default was registered and then 
the borrowing transferred to a third party. She has now settled that borrowing and doesnt 
think that the impact of the default - which will affect her ability to get a mortgage - is fair.
Barclaycard said it hadnt made any mistake. It said that when Miss B contacted it in May 
2019 she didnt have any disposable income and so a repayment plan couldnt be offered. A 
default notice was issued to the address it had on file giving Miss B until 20 July 2019 to 
bring the account up to date. She didnt do so, and a default was registered. Miss B had 
been in contact when her circumstances had changed but the default was already 
registered.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that by the time 
Miss B contacted Barclaycard in May 2019 shed missed three payments. It completed an 
income and expenditure assessment with her. It was right that no payment arrangement 
could be made as Miss B had no income. She wasnt in a position to bring the account back 
up to date and so Barclaycard had a basis to register the default under the terms of the 
agreement. Although Miss B did later clear the balance that didnt mean that the default 
should be removed.
Miss B didnt agree. She said shed turned to Barclaycard for help and was told there was 
nothing it could do. She said it ought to have given her a payment holiday. Shed been pro- 
active in contacting it and had now paid the balance off. So, she wasnt treated fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I fully appreciate Miss Bs strength of feeling here. And that she doesnt think that 
Barclaycard did enough to help her. It did as Id expect consider her income and expenditure 
at the time. I know she thinks that this was pointless, but it was a way of ensuring her 
financial position at the time was correctly documented. It set out in its letters details of free 
debt advice agencies. It did stop interest and charges on the account after May 2019 but Im 
afraid it wasnt required to offer a payment holiday. And I think it would reasonably have 
wanted to understand why things would be better after that. 
Any such arrangement or breach of the terms of the agreement would likely have had an 
impact on Miss Bs credit record. And Barclaycard is required to report her payment history 
accurately for other lenders to access too. Miss Bs financial position did improve, and she 
was able to repay the debt and had confirmation of this by August 2020. 
I dont have a reasonable basis to say that Barclaycard made a mistake or should have 
taken any other action. I know this will be a disappointment for Miss B.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman