DRN-1127792
 
The complaint
Mrs P complains about bank charges applied to her bank account by Santander UK Plc 
("Santander") over a period of some 6 years. She says she told Santander she was in 
financial difficulties and it should have done more to help her and/or restrict her credit. She 
wants Santander to refund all her past bank charges. 
What happened
Mrs P had a current bank account with Santander. In April 2014, she contacted Santander to 
say she was in financial difficulties because of family circumstances. Santander cancelled 
some bank charges totalling £120.
It also recommended Mrs P change to another bank account with Santander which it thought 
would mean she would pay less in bank charges based on her current usage.     Mrs P did 
change to the recommended bank account. This capped her bank charges at a maximum of 
£30 a month. 
In December 2018, Mrs P told Santander she was again experiencing financial difficulties 
and was struggling to pay the charges on her account. Santander offered to go through a 
budget planner with her. Mrs P said she would speak to her sister to see if she could 
help. Santander says Mrs P didn't get back in touch with it.
In May 2019 Mrs P complained to Santander about the charges on her account and 
wanted Santander to refund these. Santander said it had offered help previously with 
budgeting, which Mrs P hadn't taken up. It said the charges had been properly applied and 
wasn't willing to refund them.
Our investigator didn't recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She 
thought Santander had acted positively and sympathetically when Mrs P contacted it in 
2014, and had refunded some charges at that time to assist her.
Following Santander's suggestion, Mrs P had changed to a different bank account which 
meant her bank charges wouldn't exceed £30 a month. With her previous account these had 
consistently been in the region of £60 a month.
It seemed Mrs P used the account without needing to contact Santander again until 
December 2018. When Mrs P contacted Santander, it offered support which she didn't take 
up. There didn't seem to be any further contact until Mrs P complained in May 2019.
The investigator thought Santander and acted fairly when it was made aware of Mrs P's 
difficulties. She said we couldn't expect a business to help consumers if it wasn't made 
aware of hardship. So she wouldn't ask Santander to do anything more.
Mrs P responded to say, in summary, that the family difficulties in 2014 meant she became 
heavily in debt. She had approached her sister in December 2018, but she was unable to 
help. She had written to Santander to explain this but received no correspondence from it.The investigator asked Mrs P to supply copies of any correspondence she had 
sent Santander, but she hasn't done so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P hasn't supplied any written evidence that she contacted Santander after her sister was 
unable to help her. And Santander says it didn't hear further from Mrs P until her present 
complaint. So on balance I'm not persuaded that she did contact Santander at that time.
That being so, I think Santander treated Mrs P positively and sympathetically at the times it 
became aware she was having financial difficulties. 
When Mrs P approached it in 2014, it refunded some charges to help her, and suggested 
she switch to an account which it thought would suit her needs better. Mrs P took up this 
suggestion. She made full use of this account, and was consistently paying the maximum 
charges for this type of account. But she didn't tell Santander she was experiencing 
difficulties until December 2018.
When she did approach Santander, it again responded positively by offering to help her with 
budget planning. But she didn't take up this offer.
So, like the investigator, I think Santander has treated Mrs P positively and sympathetically 
when it was aware she was having difficulties, and I don't require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My decision is that I don't uphold this complaint, and make no order against Santander UK 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2019.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman