DRN-4092056
The complaint
Mr S complains about the charges Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (t/a Novuna Vehicle 
Solutions) (NVS) applied when he returned a car at the end of his hire agreement. Mr S 
says that NVS also incorrectly calculated his final monthly payment.
Mr S is represented in his complaint. For ease of reading, any reference to Mr S refers to 
testimony from both Mr S and his representative.
What happened
Mr S entered into a 3-year hire agreement with NVS in October 2018, and the agreement 
ran from 20 December 2018 to 20 December 2021. He says when the three-year agreement 
expired, he entered into a formal lease extension with it for a further 12 months, but then 
decided to return the car at the end of March 2022. He says hes experienced nothing but 
issues and excessive charges from NVS. Mr S told us:
When he returned the car, NVS applied an excessive mileage charge. He accepts 
this charge and acknowledges that he exceeded his mileage limit, but he says he 
wont pay this charge until the NVS satisfactorily resolves the other issues;
NVS applied charges of £200 for damage to the car that it says was beyond fair wear 
and tear, but he doesnt agree with the conclusions of the inspection report;
he acknowledges there was a dent on the inside of the door, but he says this 
wouldnt have been visible when the door was closed, and as the car was more than 
three years old, it would not have been returned in pristine condition with zero 
marks on;
he had the car repaired prior to its return to remove any minor scratches and 
damage;
NVS incorrectly collected the first payment after he extended the hire agreement  he 
says based on previous experience, his monthly payments shouldve been taken in 
arrears and no payment shouldve been taken in the first month of the lease 
extension;
he returned the car on 31 March 2022  just 12 days into the month  but NVS 
charged him the full monthly amount, when it shouldve charged him a daily rate for 
the 12 days he had the car, and hes highlighted a term on his hire agreement that he 
says confirms that any charges for a secondary hire period should be charged on a 
pro rata daily rate if the car is returned part way through the month.
Mr S said hed spoken with the subsequent owner of the car, and he questioned 
whether NVS had actually had repairs undertaken on it  he didnt think the amount it 
was charging him had been put towards getting the damages repaired.
Mr S says hes disappointed by the way hes been treated by NVS; its acted dishonestly 
throughout; provided false information; and pursued him incorrectly for arrears on his 
account. He says NVS actions have caused him stress and anxiety, and hes spent a lot of 
time corresponding with NVS which has been extremely difficult as he works full time in a 
demanding role.
NVS rejected Mr S complaint. It said under the terms of Mr S agreement, he needed to 
return the vehicle with no damage outside of fair wear and tear. And it explained that it had 
reviewed the photographs and the report provided by its collection agent, and it was satisfied 
that the identified damage was clearly evidenced and was outside fair wear and tear.
It explained that the third-party collection agent had inspected the car against the industry 
standards set out in the British Vehicle Renting and Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines 
and identified issues in two areas:
1. Rear door R  poor colour match/repair £140.00
2. B Post R  dent/paint damage £60.00
It said the charges had been levied correctly, and Mr S owed it £200.00 in respect of end of 
contract damages. NVS said that these charges reflect the loss of value in the vehicle 
because it was returned in a lesser condition than originally contracted. The charges are 
obtained from a pricing index, but it wasnt obliged to carry out repairs.
NVS told this Service that monthly payments following a formal extension to a lease are 
always taken in advance  not arrears  and it said a fully monthly payment is taken even 
when the car is returned part way through the last month; the clause in the agreement that 
Mr S had highlighted simply didnt apply to his situation. But it did say that the early 
termination fees that usually apply when a formal extension is terminated early had not been 
charged to Mr S.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said she didnt think it should be upheld. She 
explained that the standard for what constitutes fair wear and tear is set out in the British 
Vehicle Renting Leasing Association (BVRLA) guidelines and her role was to decide whether 
the charges applied by NVS were fair and reasonable.
She explained shed reviewed the evidence from the inspection and was satisfied that there 
was sufficient evidence to show that the damage identified exceeded BVRLA fair wear and 
tear guidance, and that the charges had been applied fairly.
Our investigator considered Mr S additional complaint points but concluded they couldnt be 
upheld. She explained that the documentary evidence together with Mr S own admissions 
confirmed hed entered into a formal arrangement when he extended his hire agreement  
and monthly payments under a formal arrangement are taken in advance. And she 
explained that the pro-rata daily charges for the last month only apply to informal extensions 
of less than six months.
Mr S disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says he now accepts that the 
monthly payments would be taken in advance due to it being a formal lease extension, but 
he says he still thinks the last payment shouldve been calculated on a pro-rata daily basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. As Mr S accepts the excessive mileage charge and has now indicated that 
he accepts that monthly payments under a formal lease extension would be taken in 
advance - these points arent in dispute - so theres no need for me to reach a conclusion in 
respect of them in this decision.End of contract damage charges
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Mr S must keep the vehicle in good 
condition and repair. It goes on to say, You will be responsible to us for any damage 
caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and tear as 
indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA). 
So, Im satisfied that Mr S was responsible for returning the car in good condition, and that 
the cars condition would be assessed against the guidelines issued by BVRLA. But the 
question is whether all the charges applied by NVS are fair and reasonable. 
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVLRA) and these are accepted as an industry standard in determining 
whether any damage goes beyond fair wear and tear. So, I have taken these into account 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable for NVS to charge Mr S. 
Rear door R  poor colour match/repair
The BVRLA guidance says that customers can arrange to repair areas of damage and 
replace missing equipment and accessories before the vehicle is returned, ensuring that any 
work carried out is done to a professional standard by a repairer who can provide a 
transferable warranty for the work.
In respect of bumpers, paintwork and bodywork, the standard goes on to say that evidence 
of poor repair, such as flaking paint, preparation marks, paint contamination, rippled finish or 
poorly matched paint, is not acceptable.
NVS says there is evidence of poorly matched paint, and it says this can be seen in the 
photographic evidence provided by the third-party inspector.
Ive looked very carefully at the photograph that NVS provided, and Im satisfied that the 
damage highlighted by it is indeed present; put simply, the repair work carried out on the 
door is of low quality such that I consider it to be damaged and in need of further repair. So, I 
think the charge in respect of the poor paint finish on the door has been applied fairly. 
Ive considered what Mr S says about having paid a third party to repair the damage prior to 
returning the car  but in the absence of a transferrable warranty for the work he had 
undertaken, its not unfair of NVS to charge him if the quality of the paintwork is deemed to 
be substandard, and therefore damaged.
B Post R
The BVRLA guidance says that Dents of 15mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided 
there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not broken.
NVS third-party inspection agent provided a photograph of the left post, and I can see they 
used the industry recognised approach  zebra boards  to highlight areas of damage. 
Where theres no damage, the zebra board reflects straight, solid and parallel lines. But in 
this case, theres evidence of damage; the lines are no longer parallel highlighting where the 
where a dent is present.
In this photograph, its clear that the size of the damage exceeds the BVRLA standards, and 
so Im satisfied the charge was applied fairly and reasonably.Given all of the above, Im satisfied that the charges NVS asked Mr S to pay were applied 
fairly and in line with relevant industry guidance and that NVS has acted fairly in respect of 
the charges it applied.
Mr S said hed spoken with the subsequent owner of the car, and he questioned whether 
NVS had actually had repairs undertaken on it  he didnt think the amount it was charging 
him had been put towards getting the damages repaired. But, as long as the charges NVS 
makes are fair and reasonable, its for it to decide whether to use that money to undertake 
repairs or simply compensate it for a possible reduction in value of its asset when its sold to 
a new customer.
Pro-rata payment / Daily charge
Mr S highlights a clause in his credit agreement that he says supports his position; his final 
payment shouldve been calculated on a daily basis. The clause in question says During 
any secondary hire period, you will continue to pay rentals and additional service payments 
at the rates and frequency set out n the Agreement. If the secondary period is terminated 
early under clause 1.4, your final liabilitywill be calculated by us pro rata on a daily basis.
Ive considered this very carefully, but I have to tell Mr S that I dont agree with him. I dont 
think this clause applies in this case and Ill explain why.
Mr S original credit agreement was for 36 months. And the clause upon which he relies was 
contained within that agreement. But its clear that a secondary period is an additional period 
of no more than 6 months. I think this was to cover situations where a customer may have 
needed to keep their car for a short period beyond the credit agreement  for example, their 
new car wasnt yet available to collect; or perhaps they were away on holiday and were 
unable to return the car on the date the hire agreement ended.
Mr S circumstances were quite different. He told us he had entered into a formal lease 
extension, and the documentary evidence Ive seen from NVS concurs. It confirms a new 
12-month period as an extension to the existing contract, effectively revising the hire 
agreement to a 48-month term. None of the other terms and conditions changed, it was a 
formal arrangement with monthly rentals continuing to be collected in advance. And although 
Mr S terminated the agreement early, NVS chose not to charge an early termination fee  
something it couldve done. 
Ive based my decision on all the available evidence and arguments put to me by both 
parties to decide a fair and reasonable way to resolve this complaint. The informal nature of 
our service means that Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of an issue  our rules 
allow me to do that. Its my role to exercise my independent judgment to reach a decision 
that I think is fair and reasonable - and explain why. And thats what Ive done in this case.
I recognise that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope he understands how 
Ive reached the conclusions that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 
Andrew MacnamaraOmbudsman