DRN-2668960
The complaint
Mr N complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr N bought a regular premium PPI policy in August 2009 alongside a personal loan in a 
phone call with Lloyds. The policy covered Mr N against accidents, sickness or 
unemployment. The loan and policy ended in August 2011.
Mr N thinks Lloyds mis-sold the policy to him. He says he cant remember taking out the 
insurance.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. As Mr N doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ns case.
Ive decided to not uphold Mr Ns complaint for the following reasons:
I have checked the policy terms and can see that Mr N was eligible for the cover the 
policy provided. 
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr N during the phone call with a 
representative from Lloyds. So, Ive needed to rely on both sides recollections of 
what happened and also consider the sales documentation that was used at the time 
of sale, to give me a better understanding as to what more likely happened. 
Mr N says he cant remember taking out the insurance. But his recollections are not 
detailed. This is understandable as the sale took place many years ago. So, I have 
looked at the sales documentation to see how the PPI was presented to him. Lloyds 
has submitted a questions and answers session form that shows an outline of what 
was discussed between the parties. I can see that PPI was most likely put across as 
optional from this. In addition, Mr N has signed separately for PPI on the loan 
agreement form. I can also see on the loan agreement that the PPI policy was 
presented as optional. I am persuaded that it has been presented as an optional 
requirement on the form. So, I think it is most likely that there was some discussion 
about the PPI policy during the call and Mr N chose the policy by at a later stage, 
signing the form. So, I think he was given the choice to have the policy.
Moving on, Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr N. So, as it did recommend 
the policy to him, it had additional responsibilities during the sale to make sure the 
policy was suitable for his needs. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for Mr N 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr N would have needed 
the benefit the cover provided in a difficult time  if he was made unemployed or was 
sick. I can see that Mr N cant remember what his sick pay was so Ive not seen 
enough that would suggest he wouldnt have found value in having the cover. I can 
see no other issues that would have made the policy unsuitable either for Mr N such 
as a limitation or significant term that would have affected his ability to claim benefit.
Lloyds has provided some information about the costs relating to the PPI policy that 
Mr N took out. On the PPI loan agreement form I can see that it clearly shows the 
monthly premium amount. So, I think the costs of the policy were most likely 
disclosed in a clear way. The policy seemed affordable and could have been 
cancelled at any time by Mr N.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover or give clear 
information on the significant terms. But its unlikely Mr N wouldve been affected by 
any of these due to his circumstances at the time.
In conclusion I do not think Lloyds mis-sold the PPI policy to Mr N. But Lloyds has paid back 
some of the cost of the PPI to Mr N because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr N about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr N.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr N any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman