DRN-3235424
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) because:
It declined his travel insurance claim against the new policy wording;
He requested a refund of his premium and was told this couldnt happen as hed
made an unsuccessful claim.; and
It has provided poor customer service.
Any reference to URV includes all its agents. 
What happened
 Mr L bought a single trip travel insurance policy on 7 October 2019. He paid a premium of
£27.04, which included Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) and provided cover for medical
conditions hed declared. The policy is underwritten by URV. Mr Ls intended dates of travel
were from 2 July 2020 to 9 July 2020.
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO  
formerly known as the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all but
essential travel.
Mr L explained that he cancelled his trip because of government advice against non-
essential travel. He says under the terms of his original policy purchased on 7 October 2019,
he understands he couldnt claim for cancellation costs if travel was prevented because of
FCDO advice. However, he received three separate identical emails from URV indicating 
that the terms of his policy had been changed to allow cancellation claims. These emails 
were dated 30 April, 1 May and 12 May 2020.
On 27 May 2020 he cancelled the trip and submitted a claim for £594 on 5 June 2020 to
URV. It assessed the claim and declined it because Mr Ls policy didnt provide cover for
cancellation in the event of travelling against FCDO advice. 
Unhappy with URVs response, Mr L made a complaint. He said he accepts that no claim
could have been submitted under the terms of his original policy. However, the terms
changed to his favour but then URV subsequently refused the claim. Mr L asked for a refund
of the premium paid but URV declined this as it said Mr L had made an unsuccessful claim.
Mr L brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked into it and she partially upheld the complaint. During the
investigation, URV accepted the service it provided to Mr L could have been better and
offered £150 compensation. Our investigator said she thought this was fair in the
circumstances. She also set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they
applied in the circumstances of this case. She explained that its a fundamental principle of
insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a time  the
premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that
Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because
cover under the policy started on 7 October 2019 and the policy covered various risks during
that time. In terms of the misleading information URV provided to Mr L, our investigator said
while there was an error made by URV, Mr L was insured for the policy he took on 7 October
2019. Regardless of the error it made, based on that original policy, URV has assessed the
claim fairly and in line with the relevant policy terms and conditions. She said the £150
compensation offer made was to reflect the error made and was fair.
Regarding the request of the premium being refunded, our investigator said URV should
offer 75% of the premium paid as a successful claim hadnt been made and as this was a
Covid-19 related cancellation, this would be fair and reasonable.
Mr L responded to the investigators findings and accepted the £150 compensation and the
overall findings.
URV didnt respond further.
I issued my provisional decision on 29 November 2021 and said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance set out by the regulator say an insurer should handle claims
fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules and guidance into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ls
complaint.
Was the claim covered by the cancellation section of the policy?
Ive first turned to consider the terms and conditions of the policy, as these form the basis Mr
Ls contract with URV.
In the cancellation section, page 18 of the policy booklet sets out the cover that is available
under Mr Ls policy and provide the following reasons:
you or a travelling companion is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
a close relative or a close business associate in your home country is ill, injured or 
dies before the trip starts.
the person you are going to stay with is ill, injured or dies before the trip starts.
your home, or your usual place of business in your home country, having suffered 
from burglary, serious fire, storm or flood within 48 hours of your intended departure.
you are required for jury service or as a witness in a court of law.
you or a travel companion have been made redundant of the requirements of HM 
Forces.
your outward journey was delayed by more than 24 hours because of a force 
majeure event.
Based on the above, I cant see that Mr Ls claim was for any of the above reasons. The trip
was cancelled following the FCDO advising against all but essential travel but cover for such
an event isnt provided in the policy. Im not persuaded therefore that URV declined the claim
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
Should the premium be refunded?
Mr L has said as his claim was declined by URV, he would like a refund of his premium. Iveconsidered this and having done so, I think URV ought to refund 75% of the premium that Mr
L paid for his single trip travel policy. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ls insurance policy with URV set out his cancellation rights
under the contract. These say:
You may cancel this policy at any time, after the 14 day cooling off period. Should
you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14 day cooling off period, and can
confirm that there have been no claims on the policy and that you have not travelled,
the following cancellation terms will be applied dependant on what type of policy you
have purchased.
Single Trip policies  in the event you have not travelled and are not claiming on the
policy, a refund of 50% of the total premium you have paid will apply. If you have
travelled or are intending to claim, or have made a claim (irrespective of whether your
claim was successful or not) we will not consider refunding any proportion of your
premium.
My understanding is that URV has declined to refund any part of the premium Mr L paid for
his policy. It says there has been a claim on the policy and therefore it wont consider
refunding the premium.
I appreciate URVs comments. However, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, I
cant see that the claim Mr L made has been successful. As such, I think at least 50% of the
premium should be refunded. But as the claim is for a cancellation due to Covid-19, URV
has agreed as a gesture of goodwill to refund 75% of the premium paid. In the
circumstances of this complaint, I think URV should pay 75% of the premium Mr L paid.
Is the compensation fair and reasonable?
Mr L has said he contacted URV about cancelling his trip and it sent him three emails which
included a set of terms and conditions which confirmed that he had cover for cancellation for
travel against FCDO advice.
URV acknowledged that an error had been made by it. It said the correct information hadnt
been provided to Mr L. It apologised and offered Mr L £150 compensation in recognition of
the error that had been made.
I appreciate that Mr L thinks the newer version of the policy terms and conditions should
therefore apply. However, I dont agree. URV made an error in sending this to Mr L and has
apologised for this error. I think the £150 compensation it has offered to Mr L is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances. Im not persuaded that because of this error it would now
mean that the newer version of the terms and conditions apply. Im satisfied that URV has
offered a fair and reasonable compensation amount for its error.
Conclusion:
Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, Mr L has no cover under his policy for
cancelling his trip due to the FCDO advice against all but essential travel, and I dont think
URV has treated him unfairly in declining the claim.
Im also not persuaded that URV has treated Mr L fairly by not refunding 75% of the
premium he paid for the policy. Hes not made a successful claim and as the cancellation
claim was due to Covid-19, the fair and reasonable approach would be for URV to refund
him 75% of the premium he paid.And finally, I think the compensation URV has offered Mr L for the poor service it provided is
fair and reasonable.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr L said he had nothing further to add. 
URV also responded and said it had no further comments to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In light of the responses from both parties confirming they have nothing further to add, I see 
no reason to depart from the outcome reached in my provisional decision. 
I therefore confirm the following:
In the circumstances of this complaint, Mr L has no cover under his policy for 
cancelling his trip due to the FCDO advice against all but essential travel, and I dont 
think URV has treated him unfairly in declining the claim. It doesnt need to do 
anything further on this point.
Im not persuaded that URV has treated Mr L fairly by not refunding 75% of the 
premium he paid for the policy. Hes not made a successful claim and as the 
cancellation claim was due to Covid-19, the fair and reasonable approach would be 
for URV to refund him 75% of the premium he paid. URV should therefore now pay 
Mr L the appropriate amount on this point.
I think the compensation URV has offered Mr L for the poor service it provided is fair 
and reasonable. URV doesnt need to do anything further on this point. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ls complaint against Union 
Reiseversicherung AG.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman