DRN-3932898
The complaint
Miss C complains, amongst other things, that the Royal Bank of Scotland Plc doesnt have 
solutions ensuring its services are accessible to vulnerable customers  only individual fixes 
 and that when she finds a solution it is withdrawn.
What happened
Miss C has a current account with RBS and has done so for over twenty years. She says 
she used to manage her account without difficulty but that changes in her circumstances and 
RBSs systems in the last ten years mean that she often has difficulties doing so now.
In 2019 Miss C complained to us about individual fixes RBS had in place for her that it said 
should allow her to carry out her banking needs. Those individual fixes involved, amongst 
other things, Miss C having a point of contact in RBSs telephony team  who would call her 
once a month to take a regular payment  and a community banker who would support her. 
Miss C complained that these individual fixes didnt work and that she shouldnt have to 
rely on individual fixes in any event as RBSs systems should be accessible by design.
In March 2021 one of our ombudsmen issued a final decision saying that the measures RBS 
had in place broke down too easily, in part because Miss C only had one point of contact. 
Our ombudsman thought RBS had played a part in the measures breaking down. Because 
of that they upheld Miss Cs complaint and awarded her £300 in compensation. In addition, 
our ombudsman said that a proposal from RBS  in response to a provisional decision theyd 
issued  would support Miss C in being able to carry out her banking needs. That proposal 
involved, amongst other things, Miss C having three points of contact in the telephony team 
rather than one and three community bankers rather than one. In the circumstances, our 
ombudsman said that RBS had acted fairly in supporting Miss Cs banking needs and didnt 
need to do more than it had proposed
Miss C didnt accept our ombudsmans decision because she didnt agree RBSs proposal 
would solve her problems  she again said that RBS needed to make its services accessible 
to vulnerable customers in order to do so. In other words, it needed to focus on its systems 
as a whole rather than individual fixes. Or, to put it another way, focus on its culture and 
inclusive design rather than fixes after the event. Miss C said that RBSs proposals would, if 
anything, make her banking more complicated as shed have to develop relationships with 
three people instead of one. Because Miss C didnt accept our ombudsmans decision  
which was our final say on that complaint  it wasnt binding on her or RBS. RBS says it put 
the proposals our ombudsman thought would support Miss C in place notwithstanding this. 
RBS did so despite having its own reservations about the proposals.
Miss C says shes continued to have problems accessing RBSs services  as she had 
anticipated she would  and that this led her to discover a workaround of her own. Miss C 
says the workaround allowed her to obtain her balance and to clear security without having 
to say long numbers or answer direct questions. In addition, Miss C says the workaround 
allowed her to then speak to a human being without having to go through lots of options on a 
menu. Miss C says being able to obtain her balance and clear security without having to say 
long numbers or answer direct questions  both of which she finds difficult  makes her 
banking much easier. So does being able to speak to a human being without having to go 
through lots of options on a menu  which she also finds difficult. Miss C doesnt use online 
banking which is an important factor too.
Miss C complained to RBS about the fact that it hadnt mentioned the workaround to her 
before, saying that it also showed what was possible. Miss C says RBS removed the 
workaround after she mentioned it to them. So, she complained about this too. RBS looked 
into Miss Cs complaints about the workaround in September 2021 but didnt uphold them.
Miss C says an individual  who Ill refer to as R in the rest of this decision  called her in 
February 2022 to say that shed no longer get calls from the community banker who had 
been helping her  and who shed built up a good relationship with  and that shed have to 
call RBSs main helpline in the future. Miss C says shed never spoken to R before, and that 
she didnt even know if the call was genuine. Either way, she says what shed been told was 
sudden and unexpected and deeply upsetting. She called RBSs main helpline and spoke to 
a member of staff  who Ill refer to as S in the rest of this decision  to find out what was 
going on, having also called the FCA. Miss C says S kept on asking her for the same 
information again and again and kept on asking about her health and abilities and that S 
made the call much more difficult than it needed to be.
Miss C complained to us about the problems shed been having with RBS since wed dealt 
with her complaint, including complaining about the use of individual fixes, the workaround 
shed discovered and the calls shed had in February 2022.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Cs complaint and said that they couldnt look at 
the issues our ombudsman had already considered. They did, however, look into her 
complaint about the workaround that Miss C had discovered and the calls shed had in 
February 2022  focussing on the call Miss C had with S. Having done so, our investigator 
thought that RBS had caused Miss C further distress and recommended £200 in 
compensation. RBS didnt agree it had done anything wrong and Miss C was also unhappy. 
So, I was asked to look into this complaint.
Last month I issued a provisional decision. I did so for several reasons. First, I was minded 
to award Miss C £350 in compensation having listened to a recording of the call that Miss C 
had with S  which I agreed hadnt been handled well. Our investigator didnt have the 
recording when they originally considered Miss Cs complaint, although they did have 
comprehensive notes from Miss C as she keeps detailed records. So, I felt it was important 
to say what I thought of the call having heard it. Secondly, I wanted to make observations 
which I hoped would assist both parties going forwards as I could see that Miss C was still 
unhappy about issues that wed considered before and which we cannot, therefore, look into 
again. Finally, I wanted to give both parties an opportunity to comment on what I said.
RBS had nothing to add and accepted my provisional decision. Miss C had a number of 
comments and agreed to speak to me on the phone at length  this was extremely helpful. 
Ive taken her comments into account when coming to this decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
my observations
In my provisional decision, I made a number of observations. Im going to repeat them here 
because theyre important. And because I also hope that both parties  assuming theyre 
happy to continue to have a relationship  can work constructively together to find better 
solutions as whats going on at the moment isnt good for either party.
Before I made the observations I did, I pointed out that:
Miss C is an intelligent individual who has been an RBS customer for over twenty years 
and who has difficulties if her vulnerabilities arent taken into account;
Miss C has a current account, checks her balance on a regular basis and makes at least 
one payment to another business every month. In other words, that she does what a 
typical customer does; and
Miss C doesnt agree that the individual fixes RBS has put in place for her work, or that 
she should have to rely on individual fixes.
Having done pointed these things out, I made the following observations:
My first observation is that Miss C is right that its up to RBS to design its systems in 
an inclusive way. Shes also right that RBS has a duty to make reasonable 
adjustments. This is an anticipatory duty meaning RBS should think about what 
adjustments it needs to make even before its asked to do so. And once RBS is aware 
that a customer is, for example, having problems accessing its services because of 
disability it should again take steps. My second observation is that Miss C is also right 
that it shouldnt be down to her to find workarounds.
I can, given the observations Ive just made, completely understand why Miss C finds 
her dealings with RBS so frustrating at time. I can also understand why it is so 
exhausting for Miss C having to waste so much energy getting access to services 
which she should be able to access easily just like everyone else. And why it must be 
so frustrating for her when people appear not to see the intelligent and insightful 
comments she makes. Id like to add that Miss C has been a customer for many years. 
And that its clear that shes unhappy with many of the changes that RBS has made to 
its processes over the years, and that she would often rather do things the old way.
the workaround
In my provisional decision, I said that I accepted that the workaround Miss C discovered was 
an unintended loophole in RBSs systems. If used, it put customers through to a call centre 
rather than asking them to select options from a menu using their keypad. I also accepted 
that it was a loophole that RBSs staff werent widely aware of, and that RBS was seeing 
more and more customers make use of this loophole when Miss C started to use it. And 
finally, I accepted that RBS was already planning to remove the loophole when Miss C 
mentioned it to them  it didnt remove it because she mentioned it. So, I didnt agree with 
that part of Miss Cs complaint and on those points I still dont.
I then went on to say that I didnt think RBS would have reasonably viewed this loophole as helpful to Miss C. I said that because it can be difficult for Miss C when her calls are 
answered by someone she hasnt spoken to before who isnt aware of her needs and who 
hasnt built up a good relationship with her. And because the loophole, by definition, would 
put her through to a call centre, it would more likely than not put her through to a person 
shed not spoken to before who wasnt aware of her needs and who she hadnt built up a 
relationship with. Because of that, I said I didnt think it was a solution RBS could reasonably 
have been expected to suggest to Miss C  ignoring that it wasnt widely known about. So, I 
said I didnt think I could say RBS acted unfairly not suggesting the loophole to Miss C as 
all it would have achieved would have been to increase the number of times that she spoke 
to someone who wasnt aware of her needs and hadnt built up a good relationship with her.
Having spoken to Miss C, I can see that this issue isnt as straightforward as I thought when 
I issued my provisional decision. I say that because its clear that calls with someone who is 
empathetic and understanding, and who is able to listen to what she says and make 
adjustments for her, can go well. Miss C doesnt have to have spoken to a person before for 
a call with them to go well. Thats not to say that there arent advantages in Miss C speaking 
to someone whos aware of her needs and has built up a good relationship with her  those 
calls are by definition more likely to go well. The key, however, is the person shes speaking 
to being empathetic and understanding and listening and making adjustments. In the 
circumstances, I can see why Miss C found the loophole helpful  it meant she could get 
through to someone without having to go through lots of menus. I can also see why the 
existing arrangement takes time, because it involves several stages to get something done 
that she used to be able to do very quickly. I can see too the merit of her suggestions to RBS 
on these points. At this stage, however, all I can do is ask RBS to consider what Ive said.
In my provisional decision, I said I didnt think the call between Miss C and S had gone well 
because they hadnt adapted their style  its a good example of the type of call thats likely 
to go wrong. And its those calls that Ill turn to now.
Miss Cs call with R and her subsequent call with S
In February 2022, Miss C received a call from an individual  who Im referring to as R in 
this decision  to say that shed no longer get calls from a community banker who had been 
helping her. Miss C had built up a good relationship with the community banker in question. 
Miss C says R said shed also have to call RBSs main helpline in the future.
I accept that Miss C hadnt spoken to R before and that she didnt even know if the call was 
genuine. I also accept that what shed been told was sudden and unexpected and deeply 
upsetting. Miss C has told us, given what she now knows, that the call proves that RBS had 
decided to stop providing her with a community banker. RBS says thats not the case and 
that it always intended to replace the community banker who Miss C had built up a good 
relationship with  they were needed on another project and so could no longer support her. 
On balance, I dont think RBS had decided to stop providing Miss C with a community 
banker, but I do think that the call from R was handled badly. In particular, R didnt explain 
that RBS needed to replace the community banker shed got used to speaking to  saying 
instead that Miss C would have to call the main helpline. Its unclear why R didnt do this, but 
I dont think its helpful for me to explore that any further than I already have. The most 
important point is that the call caused Miss C unnecessary distress and should have been 
handled much better, not least because R knew that Miss C was a particularly vulnerable 
customer. The compensation I said I was minded to award Miss C in my provisional decision 
factored this into account but didnt explain in as much detail as Ive done now why that call 
went wrong. Thats because I focussed on the second call that day  the one to an individual 
who Im referring to as S in this decision. Ive said more about the first call to reflect the fact 
that the call with R is a large part of Miss Cs complaint.My view of that second call remains the same  namely that S kept on asking Miss C for the 
same information again and again and kept on asking about her health and abilities and that 
made the call much more difficult than it needed to be. As I said in my provisional decision, 
the call was handled in a very process driven way. In particular, S didnt adapt his style to 
take into account the fact that Miss C was clearly getting upset and frustrated and didnt take 
on board the things Miss C was struggling with.
what next?
Miss Cs dealings with RBS have at times caused her considerable distress. Thats despite 
the fact that she only needs to carry out some very basic transactions. Shes also been 
caused considerable distress despite RBS putting significant time, resources, and effort into 
helping her. Miss C, for example, spends a significant amount of time, energy and effort 
paying off one of her cards every month. In my provisional decision I said that I thought it 
would be helpful if Miss C considered whether she could make her life easier by taking 
advantage of a direct debit, for example. Having spoken to her, however, shes explained 
that she doesnt use online banking and that the way she monitors her monthly expenditure 
is by putting it on a particular credit card so when she pays it at the end of the month, she 
knows how much shes spent. That, along with knowing what her balance is, allows her to 
manage on the limited budget she has. In other words, these are mechanisms she uses to 
monitor her expenditure. RBS might, with that knowledge in mind, be able to find an 
alternative way to help as I can see why she doesnt like the option of a direct debit. And will 
hopefully understand better why Miss C finds certain things shes highlighted helpful.
Putting things right
Miss C was happy with the compensation I was minded to award and RBS accepted my 
provisional decision. So, Im going to award Miss C £350 in compensation for the additional 
distress and inconvenience shes been caused. And as Ive said before, I do hope that both 
parties can now work constructively together to find better solutions as whats going on at 
the moment isnt good for either party.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring the Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc to pay Miss C £350 in compensation for the additional distress and 
inconvenience shes been caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman