DRN-1461008
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster bank Plc ("Nat-West") wouldn't allow him to make 
a balance transfer into his credit card account of the full amount he thought was allowed 
under the terms of his Nat-West credit card agreement.  
What happened
In May 2019, Mr A entered into a new credit card agreement with Nat-West with a view to 
making balance transfers into the account from existing credit card accounts that he had. 
The Nat-West agreement was promoted as offering 23 months interest free credit on 
purchases and balance transfers made within the first three months of account opening.
Nat-West awarded him a credit limit of £9,150. From the promotional information he read 
and the wording of the credit agreement, Mr A thought he would be able to make balance 
transfers of 95% of his credit limit, subject to this being within his available credit balance at 
the time. He made some initial purchases on the card which left him with credit available of 
£8,681.19.
95% of his credit limit was £8,692.50. So in June 2019 he contacted Nat-West to arrange 
balance transfers totalling £8,680. This was less than 95% of his credit limit and within his 
available balance.
Nat-West said the maximum permitted amount of his balance transfers was 95% of his 
available balance - £8,247.13. Mr A said this wasn't what his agreement said, but Nat-West 
wouldn't budge. So Mr A transferred balances totalling £8,223.69 in June 2019. In August 
2019, once he had made payments into his credit card account and reduced the outstanding 
balance, he made a further balance transfer of £469.93.
Mr A complained to Nat-West. It said it had acted correctly. Its website said:
"Balance transfers are limited to 95% of your available credit limit".
The remaining 5% left within his credit limit was to cover any interest that might arise, for 
example if Mr A hadn't paid off his earlier cash purchases and interest had arisen.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didn't recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He agreed that the 
credit agreement said:
"Subject to available credit, you may carry out balance transfers up to 95% of your credit 
limit."
He thought Nat-West's wording could have been clearer, but Mr A had applied for his credit 
card agreement online, and the website wording of "subject to available balance" meant  
Nat-West had made its policy sufficiently clear. By using his card for purchases before making the balance transfers Mr A had reduced the credit limit available for balance 
transfers.
He thought Nat-West's policy of only allowing balance transfers up to 95% of the credit 
balance then available wasn't unreasonable.
Mr A responded to say, in summary, that:
the term available credit limit" used in the website wasn't a term defined in the credit 
agreement, which only referred to "credit limit" and "available credit";
the wording in the credit agreement itself, quoted above, was clear and meant he 
should have been allowed to make the balance transfers totalling £8,680 he had 
requested; and
Nat-West's argument about needing to keep 5% of the credit limit available to meet 
possible interest charges was illogical. If Mr A had made the balance transfers of 
£8,680 first, followed by cash purchases of £468.81, Nat-West wouldn't have been 
able to prevent this.
 
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional view to Mr A and to Nat-West on 6 November 2019. In it I said that If 
Nat-West wished to limit the use of its card for balance transfers, as distinct from other uses, 
to a particular percentage of the credit otherwise available on the card, it was perfectly 
entitled to do so. However it needed to make this clear to its customers. So I'd looked at how 
this was explained to Mr A.
The website containing general information about the card product said:
"Balance transfers are limited to 95% of your available credit limit".
The next information Mr A would have seen was the statutory pre-contract credit information, 
which said:
"Your credit limit is £9,150. You may request a lower limit at any time."
"Once there is a signed binding agreement between us: (1) you will be able to transfer a 
balance provided it is within 95% of your credit limit and at least £100;"
Finally, the credit agreement itself said:
"Subject to available credit, you may carry out balance transfers up to 95% of your credit 
limit."
Taking these statements together, and in the order Mr A would have read them, I didn't think 
it was unreasonable for Mr A to have reached the view he did of the amount he would be 
able to take as balance transfers on to his Nat-West credit agreement.
I said this because Mr A had a very specific intent, and I thought that was clear from how he 
made the transactions. And in the individual circumstances here, I didnt think it wouldve 
been clear to him that he was making a mistake in trying to make the balance transfers as 
he did.
I said Id taken on board all of Nat-Wests comments about what its policy was and the way it 
was explained in the available information. But my decision was based on the individual circumstances of this case. It wouldnt always be fair for a business to rigidly stick to its 
policy or procedures, as it might lead to an unfair outcome for individual customers. I thought 
thats what had happened here.
As I thought it was reasonable for Mr A to have interpreted the information as he did, I 
thought it was fair that Nat-West should compensate Mr A for not being able to make the full 
transfer he wanted to.
Mr A was able to transfer the remaining balance he intended in August 2019. But he said he 
had to pay interest on this in the meantime. I thought it was fair that Nat-West should 
reimburse this interest to him, subject to Mr A confirming what this cost him. I thought      
Nat-West should also pay Mr A compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience its 
actions had caused him.
Responses to my provisional decision
Nat-West said it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr A said that in regard to the interest on other credit cards, it was generally accepted to use 
the statutory interest rate for compensation purposes used by Small Claims Courts and 
defined by the Late Payment of Commercial Debts (Interest) Act 1998, that is 8% plus Bank 
of England base rate, in total 8.25% per annum, on the amount of £8,680 - £8,247.13 = 
£432.87. So he thought that's what Nat-West should pay him.
I asked the investigator to point out to Mr A that our practice where we award interest to 
compensate for general delay in money being paid is to award yearly interest at the rate of 
8% simple. However, where a businesss actions have caused a specific and calculable loss, 
we will order the business to compensate the consumer by paying that loss.
In this case Mr A wanted to transfer £8,680. But Nat-West wrongly told him he could only 
transfer £8,247.13. So he transferred £8,223.69 in June 2019, and a further £469.93 in 
August 2019. The difference between what he wanted to transfer, and what he did transfer, 
in June 2019 (£8,680 - £8,247.13) was, as he said, £432.87.
If he had been able to transfer this in June 2019, it would have been interest free. Instead, 
Mr A had to pay interest on this £432.87 to his other credit card lenders until he could make 
his further transfer in August 2019.
This interest was the loss Mr A suffered, and the amount of this interest is what I had said, in 
my provisional decision, Nat-West should reimburse to Mr A, in addition to paying him 
compensation of £100.
The investigator invited Mr A to provide a calculation showing the amount of this interest so 
that, subject to the calculation being approved by Nat-West, it could be included in the final 
decision.
Mr A responded to say that he agreed 8% interest, and Nat-West should calculate the 
interest due back to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Following Mr As initial response, the investigator explained to him, as set out above, that my 
proposal was for Nat-West to reimburse him the actual amount of extra interest he had to 
pay, not a notional 8% interest on the £432.87 difference. Mr A doesnt seem to have 
accepted this, and he thinks Nat-West should calculate the interest due to him. 
I remain of the view that fair compensation is that Nat-West should reimburse Mr A the 
interest on the £432.87 he actually had to pay to his other credit card lenders until he could 
make his further transfer in August 2019. Only Mr A can say what this interest is - Nat-West 
doesnt have this information.
So Mr A needs to produce a calculation showing the extra interest he had to pay, so that 
Nat-West can be satisfied the amount claimed is correct, and can reimburse Mr A as I have 
ordered below. 
Putting things right
As mentioned above, I think Nat-West should reimburse the extra interest Mr A had to pay, 
and pay him compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience its actions caused 
him.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order National Westminster Bank Plc to:
1. reimburse to Mr A the interest he had to pay his other credit card lenders on the 
£432.87 Nat-West wouldn't allow him to transfer between his request to do so in 
June 2019, and August 2019 when the transfer was finally made; and
 
2. pay Mr A compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience its actions have 
caused him.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2020.
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman