DRN-3117319
The complaint
Ms F is unhappy with the way that Fairmead Insurance Limited dealt with her home
insurance claim for fire damage to her home.  
What happened
In November 2019 Ms F suffered a serious fire at her property. She reported the claim to
Fairmead. She initially moved into a friends house and then alternative accommodation (AA)
was arranged for her, which she moved into on 1 January 2020. She instructed a loss
assessor to represent her and Fairmead proceeded to investigate the claim, receiving a
forensic report and thereafter accepting the claim in December 2019.
It was agreed that the works would be put out to tender. Responses to the tender documents
were received in July 2020 and contractors were asked to proceed with the work in
September 2020. Unfortunately, due to a disagreement with Ms Fs partner, in November
2020, the contractors left the job. The loss assessor stopped working for Ms F at this time.
Fairmead agreed to consider a cash payment to Ms F and gave instructions to the loss
adjusters to make a proposal for payment in February 2021. After negotiations, a final cash
payment was made to Ms F at the end of May 2021.
Ms F complained of delays in progressing the claim, starting the repairs and in paying her for
her AA. Fairmead agreed there had been some delays and offered a compensation
payment of £100 in April 2021.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Fairmead should pay compensation of £700.
Fairmead accepted my provisional findings.
Ms F didnt accept. She said that her loss assessor quit in February 2021 because he 
couldnt get any answers from Fairmead. She also complained that she was unhappy with 
the settlement and that her husband had had to do work in carrying out the repairs which 
Fairmead refused to take into account.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings:
scope of this decision
I shall be considering matters up until the final cash payment made at the end of May 2021. I
should emphasise to Ms F that if she is unhappy with the amount of cash payment she has
received, or the amount she has received for AA, she should take this up with Fairmead.
This is because it hasnt had an opportunity to answer any complaint about the cash
amounts paid.
delay
This matter has been difficult to assess as there are gaps in the correspondence from the
files of papers Fairmead has produced to us. I have had to make some assumptions, though
if either party has further documents to support their case I would invite them to produce
them in response to this provisional decision.
The claim started in November 2019, and as far as I can see the initial investigations were
timely and appropriate. Fairmead accepted the claim by mid-December 2019. And Im aware
that Ms F appointed a loss assessor who in turn appointed a surveyor to oversee the claim.
It was agreed that the repairs would be put out to tender. It would appear that the tender
documents were prepared in March 2020. Im not clear when the tender process was
started, but it would appear that tenders were received around the end of July 2020.
Fairmeads loss adjusters reviewed the tenders and in September 2020 agreed that one firm
of contractors could be appointed.
I think the tender process probably took too long. If the documents were prepared in March
2020, then a two-month period would be a reasonable time to receive the tenders. I dont
discount the difficulties caused by Covid, but the property was empty, and the issue hasnt
been raised. It then took until September to approve one of the tenders. I think the whole
process took about four months longer than it should have.
As Ive said above, unfortunately those contractors left the job in early November 2020. It
appears that this was due to a disagreement with Ms Fs partner about power washing the
internal areas. As Ms F was no longer instructing her loss assessor, I think Fairmead
shouldve been more proactive in considering a cash settlement. It first put proposals for
such a settlement to Ms F in February 2021. Unfortunately the details of that settlement and
any negotiations over it are rather sketchy. I can see that a final settlement was paid to Ms F
at the end of May 2021.
I do think the cash settlement issue could have been sorted out sooner  Fairmead took
three months to come up with a proposal. I appreciate that the cost of works done, and to be
done, had to be assessed, but this still took too long. As for the gap between Ms F receiving
the proposal and accepting it, I havent seen details of the negotiations but I do think
Fairmead could have considered an interim payment if the full amount couldnt be agreed. I
understand that Ms F couldnt instruct new contractors without funding in place.
So overall, whilst I dont think there was any initial delay in agreeing the claim, and that
Fairmead wasnt responsible for the contractors walking off the job, I do think that there were
long delays in both getting the tenders in and authorised, and in paying the final settlement.
AA
Ms F was paid the first payment for her AA, of £4,500 (including some disturbance
allowance), in March 2020, when she had been out of her home for five months. She says
this was too long and I appreciate that it would be difficult to keep coming up with the money
for this whilst waiting for it to be authorised. She received further payments of £1,800 in July
2020, of £3,000 in February 2021 and a final payment of £2,400 at the end of May 2021. I
think there was a long gap between the July 2020 and February 2021 payments  I
understand this last payment was requested in November 2020.
On the whole I think, particularly for the first payment, and from July 2020 until February
2021 Fairmead was slow in arranging for Ms F to be paid for her AA. I should emphasise
however that Fairmead has said that all payments have now been made and if Ms F isntsatisfied that it has she should take it up further with Fairmead.
compensation
I understand how traumatic this was for Ms F. I cant hold Fairmead responsible for the
distress and inconvenience the circumstances of this claim caused to Ms F. And whilst Ms F
says her loss assessor had difficulties with communicating with Fairmead Ive seen no
evidence of that from the papers. I also cant hold Fairmead responsible for the contractors
walking off the job.
But I do think that there were long periods of delay, in arranging the tenders, and in
considering and proposing a final cash settlement to Ms F. I also think she was kept waiting
for too long to get payments for AA. Ive taken into account that for all this time she was out
of her home without being able to return to it. Overall I think Fairmead should pay Ms F
compensation of £700. 
I note Ms Fs comments on my provisional findings. I must reiterate that Ive seen no 
evidence from the papers that the loss assessor ceased acting for her because he could get 
no reply from Fairmead. On the contrary he left at the same time as the contractors.
On the question of the adequacy of the settlement I must point out that if Ms F is dissatisfied 
with the cash settlement she should put full reasons for this to Fairmead. If shes unhappy 
with this answer she can raise another complaint. But as I said in my provisional findings, 
Fairmead has to be given an opportunity to answer this first.
I am satisfied by my provisional findings which are now final and form part of this final 
decision.
Putting things right
I require Fairmead to pay compensation of £700. 
My final decision
I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to provide the remedy set out under Putting things 
right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman