The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance ("PPI") policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2009. The policy was taken out when Mr 
and Mrs S applied for a mortgage in one of the bank's branches. The PPI was in Mr S's 
name only and covered him if he couldn't work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S didn't
agree so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I thought the complaint should be upheld and I explained why. I said:
Santander didn't recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, so it didn't have to check if it was 
suitable for them. But it still had to give them enough clear information so they could make 
an informed decision whether or not to buy it. I don't think it's shown it did this.
I say this because Mr S had a pre-existing medical condition which would not have been 
covered by the policy.
The terms of the policy included an exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. Mr S 
wouldnt have been able to make a successful sickness or disability claim for:
"Any pre-existing medical condition which persists or returns during the first 12 months 
of accident or sickness cover. This exclusion will not apply once you have been 
continuously insured under the accident or sickness cover for 12 months, so long as 
you are attending work at the start of your claim. This means we will not pay for any 
condition, injury, illness, disease, sickness or related condition and/or associated 
symptoms, whether diagnosed or not:
-Which you knew about, or should reasonably have known about, at the start date, or
-Which you had seen or arranged to see a doctor about, during the 12 months
immediately before the start date."
Mr S told us hed been diagnosed with a condition around two years before he was sold the 
policy. And he's shown us a medical letter to evidence the diagnosis. This condition is long 
term. It is not a condition where an accurate prognosis can be made and it is difficult to 
predict how it will progress and how quickly. But the nature of the condition is such that it is 
DRN-1945027very likely symptoms will recur from time to time and that other associated health conditions 
may arise.
Mr S had to take time off work - several months - in 2007 because of the condition, which is 
when he received the diagnosis. I think it most likely that, when he took out the policy, he 
would probably have anticipated that any time off work would likely be due to this condition, 
or something connected to it. So I think this condition would have affected his decision to 
take the policy.
Even if Mr S didn't have symptoms during the first 12 months of the policy, I don't think it's 
clear whether the policy would have covered his condition - the diagnosis he received is for a 
condition which "persists", even if there are no noticeable symptoms for many months. In 
any event, I don't think Mr S would have wanted to gamble that he wouldn't have any 
symptoms in the first 12 months of the cover.
Overall, I don't think Mr S's condition would have been covered by the policy.
So I find that, if exclusion terms been brought to his attention, its more likely than not that  
Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have taken the policy.
In my provisional decision I set out the compensation that I thought Santander should pay to 
put Mr and Mrs S back in the position they'd be in now if they hadn't taken PPI.
Santander responded to say, in summary, that:
Mr S declared he didn't suffer from any pre-existing medical condition in the 12 
months before the policy was sold.
The policy document says the consumer could still make a claim if the condition 
returned after 12 months of the policy cover.
Santander didn't recommend the policy and no advice was given. Mr S was given 
information about the policy so he would have been aware of the exclusions when he 
chose to take it.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
When I arrived at my earlier conclusions, I had already taken into account that the record of 
requirements shows Mr S hadn't suffered from any pre-existing medical condition in the 12 
months before the policy was sold. But I don't find this was the case. Mr S has provided 
sufficient evidence to satisfy me that he had been diagnosed with a serious, lifetime 
condition in 2007. And, whilst he may not have experienced any severe symptoms in the 12 
months before the sale, he did still suffer from the condition.
For the same reason, and in all likelihood, I think it would have been difficult for him to make 
a successful claim for that condition - even if he didn't suffer any symptoms during the first 
12 months of the policy.   I accept Santander didn't recommend the policy. But it needed to provide Mr S with enough 
information for him to decide if the policy was right for him. In all likelihood, Santander didn't 
provide enough information about the pre-existing medical condition exclusion clause - 
because if it had, I don't think Mr S would have taken the policy.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander
must give Mr and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should pay 
compensation as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman