DRN-3289754
The complaint
Ms K complains about the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard when she tried to set up a Direct Debit to make payments to her account.
What happened
Ms K opened a credit card account with Barclaycard in January 2021. She wanted to set up 
a Direct Debit and says that, after an hour and a half on the phone to Barclaycard, she was 
told that she would need to do this from the app. But Ms K says she couldnt set it up from 
the app, so she called Barclaycard to complain. During this call, Ms Ks card was activated 
and the Direct Debit was set up. Barclaycard wrote to her afterwards to confirm that her 
complaint had been resolved and closed. It sent her a bottle of wine as a gesture of goodwill. 
A few days after that, the first payment on Ms Ks account was due. But the Direct Debit 
wasnt collected. Ms K says she received messages saying that her payment was late. 
Barclaycard applied a late payment charge and withdrew the promotional interest rate on her 
balance transfer. It also reported a missed payment to the Credit Reference Agencies. 
Its not clear from the information Ive seen whether Ms K was aware of these consequences 
at the time. She called Barclaycard in early March 2021 and spoke to the complaints 
department. The agent advised her to speak to her bank to check that the Direct Debit had 
been set up correctly at that end. Ms K remained unhappy about the situation and her 
complaint was re-opened.
Barclaycard didnt uphold the complaint. It said the Direct Debit had been set up correctly. It 
said it had made Ms K aware that it wouldnt be in place in time for the February payment 
and that she needed to make other arrangements for that month. It also said that it had 
correctly reported the missed payment to the Credit Reference Agencies. 
But on or around 18 March 2021, Ms K received a call from Barclaycard. The agent told her 
that there had been an error on Barclaycards part meaning that the Direct Debit hadnt been 
taken. The agent said that the Direct Debit needed to be cancelled and re-started. He said 
that the payments for February and March would need to be made manually and that the 
first Direct Debit would be collected in April. Ms K raised a further complaint.
In another call a few days later, Barclaycard confirmed that the March payment had been 
received. It said that a late payment charge had been applied to Ms Ks account for the 
missed February payment. The agent agreed to refund this and confirmed that the Direct 
Debit was in place. The promotional interest rate was also reinstated. But Ms K was very 
unhappy about the situation and asked for the complaint to be escalated.
Barclaycard wrote to Ms K in April 2021 and offered compensation of £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience she had experienced and the time she had spent dealing with the issue. 
Ms K declined the offer and came to this service. She said she had spent hours dealing with 
the issue, including long waiting times on the phone with Barclaycard. She didnt think £100 
was enough to reflect what had happened and the stress it had caused.
Since the complaint has been with this service, Barclaycard has confirmed that the Direct 
Debit was set up correctly at the outset. It just wasnt in place in time to collect the first 
payment. It says that the Direct Debit didnt need to be cancelled and reinstated in March 
2021. It doesnt think it made a mistake here. But, as it has already offered compensation of 
£100 to Ms K, it says its still willing to pay this.
Our Investigator thought that Barclaycard had acted reasonably by reinstating the 
promotional interest rate, refunding the late payment fee and offering compensation of £100. 
He also recommended that it pay Ms Ks call costs. But Ms K didnt agree and asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. She said that Barclaycard recorded negative 
information on her credit file and that her mortgage fell through as a result.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard has explained that it needs ten days to set up a Direct Debit. It says that the first 
payment on Ms Ks account was due less than ten days from when the Direct Debit was set 
up. It says it told Ms K at the time that she would need to make the first payment manually. 
Im satisfied that it sent messages to her about this before the payment was due. 
Ms K says she didnt make a manual payment as she thought the issue was resolved. 
Barclaycards letter of 15 February 2021 said that the complaint had been resolved. But that 
complaint was about setting up the Direct Debit and the fact that Ms K hadnt been able to 
do it over the phone or through the app initially. That issue had been resolved, as the Direct 
Debit had been set up once Ms Ks card was activated. But I havent seen anything which 
indicates that Ms K was told the February payment would be collected by Direct Debit. 
Ive listened to the call recordings which Barclaycard has provided. During one call, Ms K 
explained to the complaint handler that, when the Direct Debit was set up, there was a query 
as to whether it would be in time for the first payment. She said the agent she spoke to at the 
time was going to include this in the letter about the complaint. But the letter simply said that 
the complaint had been resolved and closed. It didnt address the timing of the first payment. 
I can understand why Ms K may have thought the letter meant she didnt need to act upon 
the messages she had received previously. But Im satisfied that she knew there was a 
possibility that the February payment wouldnt be collected by Direct Debit. So I think it 
would have been reasonable for her to have checked the position or made a manual 
payment when she received a subsequent payment reminder message.
Barclaycard has already refunded the late payment charge and reinstated the promotional 
interest rate. I think that was fair, as I can see that there was some ambiguity here over 
whether the first payment would be collected by Direct Debit. But Im not going to ask 
Barclaycard to remove the late payment entry from Ms Ks credit file. Thats because I have 
to be impartial and I think Ms K did have some responsibility to ensure the payment was 
made on time, despite the confusion here. The payment wasnt made on time, so a late 
payment marker for February is an accurate reflection of the account status at that time.
Ms K says that her mortgage fell through as a result of entries on her credit file. I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Barclaycard reported anything other than a late payment for 
February 2021. And I havent seen any information about the mortgage application or why it 
was declined. So I cant safely conclude that Barclaycard is at fault in that respect.Im satisfied that the Direct Debit was collected successfully from March 2021 onwards. 
Barclaycard says this was because the original Direct Debit mandate had been set up 
correctly. It says this means that no mistake had been made and that the complaint shouldnt 
have been upheld. But I think Barclaycard did make some mistakes here. The information 
Ms K was given in the call on 18 March 2021 was wrong. She was told the Direct Debit 
hadnt been set up correctly and that it needed to be cancelled and re-started. It was 
reasonable for her to assume that what she was being told was accurate. 
I can understand that it would have been stressful for her to hear that the Direct Debit wasnt 
in place. This was inconsistent with what shed been told previously. And shed already 
spent time contacting her bank and obtaining confirmation from them that they had set up 
the Direct Debit correctly. This was in addition to all the time she spent speaking to 
Barclaycard about the issue. In a subsequent call, the agent mentioned a late payment 
charge. But Ms K didnt seem to be aware of this and was clearly distressed to be finding out 
about it over the phone. Overall, I think the situation was confused and could have been 
handled better. 
In the circumstances, I think Barclaycard should pay Ms K compensation of £100 and 
reimburse her call costs. I realise Ms K doesnt think this is enough. But I dont think the 
circumstances justify a higher award, particularly in light of the steps Barclaycard has 
already taken.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so, Barclays Bank 
UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should:
pay Ms K compensation of £100, and 
reimburse the costs of Ms Ks calls to Barclaycard about the Direct Debit, upon 
receipt of satisfactory proof of these.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman