DRN-2644053
The complaint
Mrs D, through her representative, complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd trading as Allied 
Dunbar Assurance plc (Zurich) gave her unsuitable advice to take out a Free Standing 
Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. She says if shed been suitably advised 
about alternatives, she wouldve made additional voluntary contributions (AVCs) through her 
occupational pension scheme and shes suffered a financial loss.
 
What happened
In 1999 Mrs D took out an FSAVC on the advice of Zurich. Information she provided to the 
Zurich adviser at the time showed that Mrs D:
Was 30 years old.
Was Married.
Worked as a teacher.
Had a salary of £21,000.
Had been a member of her occupational pension scheme for 6 years and had a 
normal retirement age for that scheme of 60.
Wanted to retire at 55.
In 2019 Mrs D, through a representative, complained that shed been given unsuitable 
advice to take out an FSAVC. In its response to the complaint Zurich said it had followed the 
guidelines in place from Zurichs regulator at the time of the sale of her FSAVC.
Mrs Ds representative brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator ultimately upheld the complaint. At first, she thought Zurich had done 
enough to comply with the requirements of the regulator in relation to the sale of FSAVCs. 
But in a further view she said that:
Zurich had a duty to explain to Mrs D in generic terms that the charges would likely 
be higher for an FSAVC than the in-house AVC offered by her employer. 
She didnt think Zurich had demonstrated that its adviser had fairly discussed the 
likely difference in costs between the two.
Our investigator said:
The topping up booklet notes that the charges levied on contribution to an in-house AVC are
usually lower than those charged under the Allied Dunbar AVC pension account. But Ive
acknowledged that the information later provided, goes on to become mis-leading and 
suggests that the charges may be the same. The booklet therefore doesnt adequately 
provide Mrs D with a clear explanation of the differences in charges. Im therefore unable to 
say for sure that the adviser did what he was required to do.
She concluded that it didnt appear that Mrs D was provided with enough information about 
the charges to make an informed decision. She thought Zurich should pay redress 
calculated in line with the regulators FSAVC Review guidance, with one amendment. 
Zurich asked for a decision from an ombudsman. It thought the booklet, read in its entirety, 
was appropriate and that Mrs D had confirmed that she understood her choices when 
signing the recommendation. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold the complaint, Ill explain why. 
In order to decide the complaint, I need to consider whether the Zurich representative 
complied with the applicable regulatory guidance in place at the time of the advice. If he 
didnt, I need to further consider what difference did that make. In particular, would Mrs D
have contributed to an AVC through her employment?
The advice was provided by a Zurich representative over two meetings in 1999. So the 
relevant regulatory guidance was contained in the May 1996 Regulatory Update 20 (RU 
20), which was produced by the Personal Investment Authority, one of the predecessors to 
the current regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. RU 20 gave guidance on the 
procedures for advising clients on the relative merits of FSAVCs and in-scheme AVCs 
relating to occupational pension schemes. The guidance set out different requirements 
depending on whether the adviser was an independent financial adviser or a tied adviser  
one who is employed by, or contracted to, one organisation and can only recommend and 
sell that organisations products. In this case the adviser was tied.
For tied advisers, RU 20 indicated that: 
A representative should not recommend his own companys FSAVC until he has: 
- drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative; 
- discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms (taking account, among 
other things, of the features described in this article); and 
- directed the client to his employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more information on the 
in-scheme option. 
When these procedures are followed and documented, it is not necessary for the 
representative to undertake a full comparison of the in-scheme AVC and his companys 
FSAVC.
Among the features referred to in the article were that charges under in-
house AVCs would usually be lower. The regulator indicated that it would expect the file to 
have documentary evidence demonstrating that the procedures in the update had been 
followed. 
I wouldve expected the Zurich representative to make Mrs D aware of the in-house AVC 
and to discuss the generic features of the in-house options and of the FSAVC. The key 
difference I wouldve expected the representative to discuss with Mrs D would be the 
likelihood of lower charges for the in-house AVC. I would also expect Mrs D to have been 
directed to her employer and/or occupational pension scheme trustee to obtain more 
information on her in-house options.From the paperwork provided, Im not persuaded that the procedures required by the update 
have been followed. There is very little documentation of what discussion took place about 
the differences between in-house AVCs and the FSAVC. Zurich point to the booklet and the 
fact Mrs D signed a recommendation saying shed been given it and that she understood her 
choices as being evidence that if the recommendation letter didnt reflect their discussions or 
her understanding, its reasonable to assume she wouldve questioned it at the time. But 
theres nothing in the recommendation about charges, and nothing about discussions, so Im 
not persuaded by this argument of Zurichs. So Im unable to determine what was discussed. 
Im therefore not satisfied that the guidance was followed. 
I dont think providing a booklet is enough for Zurich to comply with the regulators 
requirements, as the guidance requires discussion, not just the provision of information. And 
like our investigator, I think the booklet could be misleading as although it does indicate that 
charges are usually lower for in-house AVCs than its FSAVC it then goes on to say in the 
same paragraph that over the life of the plan these may even out. In my view, this implies 
that there may be no difference, which I dont think is consistent with the guidance 
requirement. 
For the reasons given above, Im not persuaded that Zurich complied with the guidance in 
relation to the sale of the FSAVC to Mrs D. I now need to decide whether, if Mrs D had been 
appropriately advised, it wouldve made a difference. In other words, would she have taken 
out an in-house AVC? 
I can see from the information provided that Mrs D indicated that she wished to retire at 55, 
and this was noted to be 5 years before normal pension age in her occupational scheme. 
The recommendations document completed by the Zurich adviser on 21 July 1999 indicates 
that Mrs Ds reasons for wanting an FSAVC over joining the in-house AVC at her employer 
were retiring earlier than the age set by her employers scheme, and privacy from employer. 
This may suggest that the recommendation to take out an FSAVC remained suitable, 
notwithstanding the difference in charges.
But given the regulators view that a critical factor driving choice between FSAVCs and 
AVCs was the usually lower fees, I think it is more likely than not that Mrs D wouldve chosen 
to contribute to the AVC through her occupational scheme if shed been properly advised. 
Im not persuaded that the other reason given for choosing an AVC - privacy from employer 
 wouldve alone made a difference to her decision. And there isnt anything to suggest she 
was likely to change professions such that she wouldnt be able to contribute to the AVC in 
the future. Indeed the 21 July 1999 recommendation notes that no change in circumstances 
was expected. 
For the reasons given above, Im upholding the complaint. 
Putting things right
I think compensation for Mrs D should be calculated in line with our general approach to 
complaints of this type. Zurich should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the 
regulators FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below, to take into 
account that data for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 
January 2005. 
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Zurich should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his/her likely income tax rate in retirement 
 presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this. Mrs D should confirm her tax rate to us as part of her response to 
this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Zurich Assurance Ltd, trading as Allied Dunbar Assurance plc, 
should settle the complaint using the FCAs FSAVC guidance, as Ive set out above under 
the Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman