DRN-2866093
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the assistance provided by Aviva Insurance Limited when he was 
abroad after his partner (Ms M) died. And its decision not to cover certain costs under the 
travel insurance policy he and Ms M had the benefit of.
References to Mr M also include the family member representing him in this complaint. 
What happened
Mr M and Ms M had the benefit of a travel insurance policy  underwritten by Aviva  as part 
of Ms Ms package bank account (the policy). 
Whilst abroad in July 2019, Ms M, very sadly, died. The cause of death was said to be a 
heart attack.
Upon Ms Ms death, Mr M contacted Aviva for assistance and hes unhappy with the overall 
service provided including:
- Aviva failing to cover the costs associated with repatriating Ms M back to the UK;
- Avivas delays in providing assistance causing him to miss his scheduled return flight 
to the UK, meaning he had to pay for another return flight. 
Mr M complained to Aviva, but his complaint wasnt upheld. Unhappy, Mr M brought a 
complaint to our Service, which our investigator didnt uphold. 
Mr M didnt agree so this complaint has now been passed to me consider everything afresh 
and decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has an obligation to consider claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
Failing to cover Ms Ms repatriation costs:
The policy says at page 13:
You must take reasonable care to provide complete and accurate answers to the 
questions we ask when you add the Travel Pack to your Qualifying Account or make 
changes to your policy.
Please tell the Medical Risk Assessment Team immediately if there are any changes 
to your health or the health of anyone else the trip depends on
Please see the Medical Declaration section of your policy
If you are in any doubt, please contact us. When we are notified of a change, we will 
tell you if this affects your policy, for example whether we are able to accept the 
change and if so, whether the change will result in revised terms.
If the information provided by you is not complete and accurate we may:
1. amend the medical underwriting decision(s) for any declared Pre Existing 
Condition(s) which may result in an accepted condition being excluded, or
2. refuse to pay any claim, or
3. not pay any claim in full, or
4. cancel this policy depending upon the information that you have given us.
More information is given about the Medical Declaration on page 23 of the policy. It says:
You must contact the Medical Risk Assessment helpline number if at the date you 
added the Travel Pack to your Qualifying Account or when booking a trip (whichever 
is later), you:
a. have received advice, medication or treatment for any serious, chronic or 
recurring illness, injury or disease in the last 12 months
It isnt disputed that before booking the trip which took place in July 2019, Ms M had suffered 
a heart attack earlier in 2019. The GP certificate dated 19 July 2019 also reflects that Ms M 
underwent a coronary artery bypass graft in March 2019. And although the GP also notes 
that Ms M had recovered well from the surgery and was on medication, I think a reasonable 
person would consider this to be a change in her health. 
Im therefore satisfied that this change in health shouldve been disclosed to Aviva before 
booking the trip in or around May 2019, in line with the policy terms. And in the 
circumstances of this particular case, Aviva hasnt unfairly relied on the policy terms in this 
regard. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account what Mr M says about him and Ms M 
having to cancel a different, pre-booked, holiday because of Ms Ms heart attack in March 
2019. And that a successful claim was made on the policy for their irrecoverable costs in 
respect of that holiday. And so, he says, Aviva were made reasonably aware of Ms Ms heart 
attack.
I can, of course, understand the point Mr M makes. Although, Avivas claims department 
mightve been made aware of the reason why the pre-booked holiday was cancelled, and a 
successful claim had been made as a result, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude that the claims department shouldve then notified the medical risk assessment 
team. And Im satisfied that there isnt a legal or regulatory obligation for it to have done so. 
The policy makes clear that Avivas medical risk assessment team should be notified of any 
changes in health in circumstances Ive already set out above. And that a further medical 
declaration was required to be made, when booking a trip if Mr and/or Ms M had received 
advice, medication or treatment for any serious, chronic or recurring illness, injury or disease 
in the last 12 months. Im satisfied that this is an ongoing obligation under the policy at the 
time of booking each trip.And Ive seen no evidence that Ms M did contact Aviva to specifically declare a change in 
her health. 
Ive gone on to consider what wouldve happened if she had done so. 
Aviva has provided us with its underwriting criteria which sets out the questions Ms M 
wouldve been asked had she contacted its medical risk assessment team to declare her 
heart attack. Im satisfied Aviva has retrospectively answered these questions fairly. 
The underwriting criteria reflects that the policy wouldve continued but Aviva wouldve 
added certain exclusions to the policy. In particular, Aviva wouldve excluded claims relating 
to:
- heart attack;
- coronary artery bypass graft;
- high blood pressure; and 
- cholesterol levels.
So, Im satisfied that had Ms Ms change in health been declared when it reasonably ought 
to have been, these exclusions wouldve been added to the policy. And, as such, Im 
persuaded that Aviva has fairly concluded that any costs incurred as a result of Ms Ms 
death arent covered under the policy, given the cause of her death.
The assistance provided by Aviva:
Mr M is unhappy about the length of time it took Aviva to confirm that it was unable to assist 
him with the repatriation of Ms M to the UK.
Aviva was informed of Ms Ms death on 15 July 2019 and it confirmed that it required Ms Ms 
death certificate. Im satisfied that Aviva then promptly requested medical information from 
Ms Ms GP and chased this up.
From looking at Avivas system notes, Im satisfied that it was proactively attempting to 
progress matters and was trying to ascertain whether the medical issues set out in the GP 
certificate  received on 19 July 2019  had been previously disclosed to Aviva. And upon 
discovering that they hadnt been, Aviva carried out a retro-screening to establish if the 
conditions had been declared prior to travel whether they would be coverable under the 
policy. 
Aviva accepts that it shouldve updated Mr M about what it was doing to try and progress 
matters during the period 19 and 22 July 2019. And this wouldve prevented Mr M having to 
chase for an update on 22 July 2019 by email. Its apologised for not updating him. 
I can understand why Mr M wouldve been upset about not receiving an update from Aviva, 
given the distressing time he was going through. And in the circumstances, Im satisfied that 
an apology is enough to reflect the upset of not receiving an update wouldve inevitably 
caused him. However, the decision was taken - and communicated to Mr M - the following 
day (on 23 July 2019), that Aviva wouldnt be covering the costs of Ms M being repatriated to 
the UK and why.
Mr M is also unhappy because he says Aviva provided no assistance or advice as to 
whether he should return to the UK on his scheduled return flight or remain abroad.
Avivas system notes reflect that Mr M was given the option to curtail his trip on 15 July 
2019. As Mr M was staying with family and, at that stage, had (understandably) not decided whether he wanted to cut short his trip, I think it was then up to Mr M to notify Aviva if he did 
wish to come home early. In the circumstances, I dont think Aviva was under any obligation 
to proactively chase him to see what he wanted to do so or to provide any advice as to 
whether he should cut short his trip or not. That was a decision for him to make. 
Mr M did end up missing his scheduled return flight. And paid for another return flight. 
However, I dont think Aviva should reasonably cover the cost of that rescheduled flight 
given the exclusions which have been retrospectively  and fairly and reasonably  added to 
the policy.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman