DRN-2919810
The complaint
Mr C complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to refund him for three 
transactions which he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 20 August 2020, £7,300 credited Mr Cs Barclays Saver account.  Over the next few 
days, most of that was transferred to Mr Cs Barclays Premier account, on which the 
disputed transactions later took place.
A number of undisputed payments took place. On 25 August, Mr C gave his card and PIN to 
his girlfriend, who went out to a restaurant in the town where they lived. He stayed at home, 
and he checked his online banking. He said that he saw that savings had been moved into 
his Premier account and that there were three transactions he didnt recognise, totalling 
£4694.38. 
The next day, Mr C contacted Barclays and told the bank there were transactions he didnt 
recognise. He initially disputed four transactions, but some weeks later said that  £98 
transaction to a chemist was genuine.  When he reported the claim, Mr C told Barclays he 
still had his card and his mobile  they hadnt been lost or stolen.
Barclays investigated, but didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. In its final response, Barclays said 
that:
- Mr Cs version of events had been inconsistent, and there was no police report;
- Mr C had said that when the alleged fraud took place, his card was in his partners 
possession. This was gross negligence and a breach of the terms and conditions to 
which Mr C had agreed;
- Mr C had told Barclays that hed made three of the transfers from his Saver account 
to his Premier account, but not two of them, which raised Barclays suspicions about 
his claim;
- The same device had been used to make the disputed transactions and the genuine 
ones;
- Mr C had logged into his Barclays mobile banking regularly throughout the time of the 
disputed transactions  but he hadnt raised a complaint until after the last one had 
gone through.
Mr C wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He was originally represented by his 
girlfriend, but later told us theyd fallen out and hed be dealing with the complaint himself. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. The transactions had been authorised using 
a mobile payment service. The investigator explained that this had been registered to Mr Cs 
Barclays account on 24 July 2020, using an PINsentry device. Setting this up would have 
needed Mr Cs card number and PIN to have been entered, and a code would then have 
been sent to his registered mobile number, to be entered online. The investigator noted that 
Mr C still had his mobile in his possession when he reported the problem to Barclays. 
The investigator also pointed out that a fraudster wouldnt set up a facility in July, then wait a 
month to use it. Mr C had logged on many times since July, and hadnt contacted Barclays to 
query the addition of the mobile payment service. The investigator also said that there were 
multiple discrepancies in what Mr C had said. And he hadnt provided a plausible story about 
how an unknown third party could have accessed all of Mr Cs phone, PIN, debit card and 
PINsentry device, as well as returning them without Mr Cs knowledge.
Mr C didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman decision. He also said he was on a number 
of medications, and couldnt always remember everything.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Regulations
There are regulations which govern disputed transactions. The relevant regulations for 
disputed transactions taking place in August 2020 are the Payment Services Regulations 
2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Barclays) must show the 
transaction was authenticated. Thats the technical part, and here, 
Ive seen the computer records which show the first disputed transaction took place at 19:46, 
and the third disputed transaction at 20:01. The transaction which Mr C initially disputed, 
then later said was genuine, was authenticated using the same method and the same device 
at 20:20.
So I find that the disputed payments were authenticated.
The regulations say that its then necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
Who authorised the disputed transactions?
The three disputed transactions were carried out using the same mobile payment service. As 
Ive set out above, this had been set up on Mr Cs account a month before the disputed 
transactions. Hed logged onto his account on a number of occasions since this was set up 
on his account, and hadnt reported anything about it to Barclays. This same mobile payment 
service was also used for the transaction which Mr C initially disputed, then said was 
genuine. So I consider its most likely that Mr C set up this mobile payment service himself. 
And if a fraudster had somehow been able to set up the mobile payment service, its most 
unlikely theyd then have waited a month before trying to take money out of Mr Cs account. 
And it would have been such a coincidence that any such fraudster tried to do this, just when 
Mr C had had an unusually large sum of money credited into his Premier account.
Going on to the specific transactions, in order to authorise transactions using the mobile 
payment service, the user would have to provide their phone security information, such as 
Touch ID (either fingerprint or face) or the passcode. So they must have been carried out by 
someone with a registered fingerprint or face on the mobile, or someone who knew the 
passcode, which Mr C said he hadnt written down. I cant see how any unknown third party 
fraudster could have obtained these.Ive also borne in mind that any such third party fraudster would also have had to have 
known that Mr C had just transferred a substantial and atypical sum into the account. 
And that still doesnt explain why the computer records show that Mr C logged onto his 
Barclays mobile banking during this time, and carried out the undisputed transaction  but 
didnt report the disputed transactions until the next day. 
Ive also considered the fact that Mr C said that hed given his girlfriend the card and she 
also knew the PIN. I cant tell whether it was Mr C, or his girlfriend, who actually carried out 
the disputed transactions. But Mr Cs Barclays account was in his sole name. And the terms 
and conditions of that account say that customers must do all they reasonably can to keep 
payment tools safe. It specifically says you must not give your payment tools to anyone 
else. As Barclays said in its final response letter to Mr C, technically this counts as gross 
negligence  as Mr C had broken the terms and conditions of his account by letting his 
girlfriend have the card and PIN.
So it doesnt make any difference whether Mr C, or his girlfriend, actually carried out the 
disputed transactions. Mr C broke the terms and conditions by letting her have the card and 
PIN, so hes liable, whichever of them carried out the disputed transactions.
Finally, Im sorry to hear about the health issues which Mr C told us about, which he said 
mean he cant always remember everything. But based on all the evidence Ive seen, I still 
consider it was most likely that Mr C, or someone he allowed to use his card and PIN, who 
carried out the transactions. I say that because computer evidence shows a lot of technical 
information which enables us to know a great deal about transactions. Just one example is 
the fact that exactly the same payment mechanisms were used for the disputed transactions, 
as for the undisputed one some 20 minutes later. So, while Mr C might not be able to 
remember everything, the computer evidence has provided independent information about 
what actually happened.
Taking all these factors into account, I find that its more likely than not that Mr C, or his 
girlfriend with his permission, carried out the disputed transactions. In either case, Mr C is 
liable, and I dont require Barclays to refund Mr C.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman