DRN-4299513
The complaint
Ms G has complained that Santander UK Plc wont refund money she says wasnt dispensed 
back to her by an ATM after she cancelled a deposit.  
What happened
Both sides are familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief. 
On 19 April 2023 Ms G tried to deposit £1,400 in an ATM. When the ATM told her there were 
too many notes, she said she tried to deposit £1,200. The ATM only counted £340 and gave 
Ms G the option of cancelling the transaction  which she did. But she says the ATM only 
returned £340.
Santander said its ATM dispute team reviewed the matter twice and found that records for 
the ATM used by Ms G showed no overage or error. 
Ms G complained to the Financial Ombudsman. She maintained shed only received back 
£340 of the attempted £1,200 deposit.  She wanted Santander to refund the outstanding 
£860.
Our Investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Ms G 
didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Ms G maintained shed only received £340 back from the ATM. She said shed remained 
consistent in her testimony and was prepared to take a lie detector test. Ms G said that the 
situation had been extremely upsetting for her. 
Ms G wanted to know if Santander had considered the possibility that her money had been 
accidently credited into another customers account. Or if the ATM had been tampered with 
in some way by fraudsters. And she wanted to know whether we could access any CCTV 
footage to show her depositing the money. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator  and for largely the 
same reasons. I realise this will be very disappointing for Ms G and Id like to assure her I 
havent taken this decision lightly. 
In doing so, Ive very carefully considered all the evidence provided and Id like to assure 
Ms G that if I dont mention a particular point, its not because I havent considered it, but Ive 
focussed instead on what I believe to be important to the outcome of this complaint. 
I appreciate Ms Gs strength of feeling  and I dont underestimate the significance of the 
£860 to her. Shes spoken about the need to review CCTV footage and that shed be 
prepared to take a lie detector test to further support her testimony  which I accept has 
been consistent throughout. 
But I need to look at things objectively. Essentially, I can only tell Santander to refund the 
disputed £860 if the technical evidence supports there was a discrepancy or error with the 
ATM resulting in the £860 loss. And so, I dont consider that any information obtained from 
CCTV, or a lie detector, would be persuasive here. 
Santanders technical reports and complaint records support Ms Gs testimony in so far as 
the process she went through in trying to make the deposit and the action she took 
immediately afterwards. In particular, the reports show that Ms G tried to make the deposit 
on two occasions, with the first attempt being aborted due to a maximum number of notes 
exceeded error message. 
In terms of the second attempt, the report also confirms that the ATM counted £340 (34 x 
£10 notes). And that this transaction is then cancelled, and the notes presented back to 
Ms G  as her testimony confirms. 
My focus has therefore been on whether there is any technical evidence to show that £1,200 
was deposited by Ms G and that £860 has been unaccounted for. 
Firstly, as Ive said above, the ATM only counted £340. I appreciate Ms G has consistently 
maintained she tried to deposit £1,200, and her testimony is persuasive. But unfortunately, 
that isnt supported by the technical evidence  which in cases such as this, is seen as more 
persuasive than a customers testimony. 
In terms of whether any money was stuck in the ATM, I can see from Santanders records 
that this was checked by branch staff at the time. Santander has also confirmed there were 
no reported problems or evidence of tampering with the ATM used by Ms G. 
Ive looked next at whether theres any evidence to support an accounting discrepancy with 
the ATM used by Ms G that matches the disputed £860. 
I can see from the information provided by Santander that on 19 April 2023 the ATM 
balanced. The records also show the ATM balanced in the days immediately after Ms Gs 
attempted deposit. 
Santander has also provided information about the deposits made using the ATM from 
10.09am on 19 April 2023 up until the funds were cleared at 8.50am on 20 April 2023. The 
report shows there was a discrepancy of £280 in a transaction made by another customer at 
8.08am on 20 April 2023, whereby more notes were counted than the customer deposited. 
Santander has told us this money has been reimbursed to the relevant customer and has no 
bearing on Ms Gs complaint. But given the strength of Ms Gs testimony, Ive thought very 
carefully about the significance of this evidence. 
Firstly, theres no suggestion this discrepancy was because the ATM was faulty or tampered 
with. Secondly, the transaction to which the discrepancy related happened the day after 
Ms Gs attempted transaction  and the amount bears no resemblance to the disputed £860. 
Thirdly, the fact the discrepancy was identified by Santander shows it has accounting checks 
in place to ensure deposits are processed correctly. 
Furthermore, the deposit information Santander has provided shows no reference to any 
money being deposited by Ms G. The total money deposited, and the total banked for the 
period in question, also matches. This indicates that when the money deposited in the ATM was counted, and the £280 was reimbursed, it matched what was collected and banked. In 
other words, no amount matching the disputed £860 was unaccounted for. 
Ms G has asked if theres a possibility the £860 was credited to the wrong account. I accept 
anything is possible, and its right to explore all avenues. But Ive seen nothing to support 
Ms Gs suggestion here, primarily because theres no technical evidence of any money 
being successfully deposited in the ATM by Ms G. Ive therefore got no basis on which to 
say the money was possibly somehow credited to the wrong account when there was no 
money to credit. 
All the evidence I have strongly supports that the deposit transaction was attempted by Ms G 
 but the funds were returned to her. And theres no evidence of any errors or accounting 
discrepancies to indicate her money was retained by the ATM or that the funds were 
credited to the wrong account. So, I dont have a fair basis on which to tell Santander to 
refund the disputed £860. 
This is a difficult message for me to give. But given the evidence I have and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion. 
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I dont think this is a case where it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to ask Santander to refund the £860 to Ms G.
So, Im not going to tell Santander to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman