DRN-3810546
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains about Zurich Insurance PLCs (Zurich) 
handling of a claim and servicing of a policy which failed to cover its subsidiary company. Ill 
refer to this company as P. 
Mr D, a director of R, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
In 2020 R took out an Executive Risk Solutions policy with Zurich. At inception, Rs broker 
enquired with Zurich about a policy for P too. The broker told Zurich that both R and P had 
the same director, but R owned 100% of the shareholdings in P, thus making P a subsidiary 
of R. The broker asked Zurich whether a second policy was required to cover P. It was 
confirmed by Zurich that based on the information provided by R it wasnt necessary for a 
separate policy because Rs policy extended to subsidiary companies.  
A subsequent claim was made under the policy later that year for P, concerning the sale of a 
property which fell through. The third party was suing P and Mr D in his personal capacity, 
for recission of a contract to purchase. 
Zurich said the system they used to check company details suggested that P was not a 
subsidiary of R and was 100% owned by its director, Mr D. Zurich asked R for further 
information in order to demonstrate that P was a subsidiary of R. 
R provided Zurich with the certificate of incorporation dated 2016 which showed that P was a 
subsidiary of R in 2016. However, as it seemed that this information was no longer correct, 
Zurich requested more up to date information to verify that P was still a subsidiary company. 
The information requested by Zurich included the current register of shareholders for P to 
confirm there had been no change in the shareholding of the company. 
In the meantime, due to the tight deadline imposed on P by the third party to respond to the 
claim, Zurich arranged for legal assistance to be provided to P on a without prejudice to 
policy coverage basis to protect Ps position with regards to this matter. The third party was 
also making a claim against Mr D in his personal capacity  Zurich didnt provide assistance 
with this aspect of the claim because it was in Mr Ds personal capacity and not as a director 
of the company and so it wasnt covered by the policy.    
Mr D was unable to provide up to date information to demonstrate that P was a subsidiary 
company. Zurich said in the circumstances the claim wouldnt be covered because P wasnt 
a subsidiary of R; 100% of its shareholding had been transferred to Mr D prior to inception of 
the policy. 
Mr D explained that this was an oversight by his accountant, which had now been corrected 
on the Companies House register and backdated to a week prior to the date of the event 
being claimed for and therefore covered by the policy. 
Zurich wasnt satisfied with the information provided by R and so they requested further 
documents relating to the setup of the two companies. R was unable to provide the 
information requested by Zurich. R said it had entrusted its accountant to deal with 
everything and did not have any of the paperwork requested by Zurich. Zurich told R they 
would communicate directly with the accountant to acquire the necessary information. 
Zurich said based on the information they had been provided P wasnt a subsidiary company 
of R at the time of the event being claimed for. Neither Mr D nor his accountant could 
provide evidence to the contrary. Zurich therefore concluded that the policy cover did not 
extend to P because it was not a subsidiary company and rescinded their instructions to 
solicitors who were acting on behalf of P in the matter. Zurich confirmed there will be no 
further assistance and that P and Mr D will need to seek their own legal assistance at their 
own costs as there is no cover for them under the policy. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold Rs complaint. She 
thought that Zurich had acted fairly in declining the claim based on the available evidence 
and policy terms. R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this will not be the outcome R was hoping for but, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
I want to assure R that Ive read and carefully considered everything it has said. However, 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points raised. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point that the parties have raised. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by R, and by Zurich, to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
The crux of this complaint centres on Zurichs decision to not extend cover under the policy 
to P. 
R is relying on the following policy General Conditions for the claim to be met by Zurich: 
2. Automatic acquisition
We will pay financial loss on or behalf of an insured subsidiary company which you 
founded or acquired after the inception date of this policy provided always that the 
newly founded or acquired subsidiary company: 
a) is not domiciled outside the European Union 
b) does not have publicly traded securities
c) is not a financial institution
d) does not have assets which exceed 25% of your total assets as stated in your 
last published accounts. 
When enquiring about policy cover for P, R told Zurich that P was a subsidiary company 
because it owned 100% of the shareholdings in the company. 
The policy defines Insured Company asa) You 
b) Any past, present or future subsidiary company.  
Based on the information given by R, Zurich wasnt wrong to say that the cover extended to 
P because the policy did cover subsidiary companies in line with the above terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
During the investigation of the claim, Zurich discovered that in 2017 (prior to inception of the 
policy) all of Ps shareholdings had been transferred to Mr D, therefore P was no longer Rs 
subsidiary company. 
In the policy Subsidiary company is defined as: 
An entity in which you directly or indirectly:
a) hold more than 50% of the voting rights
b) appoint a majority of the board of directors
c) have the right to appoint a majority of the board of directors subject to written 
agreement with other shareholders. 
Provided always that this policy will only apply to claims made against an insured 
person of a subsidiary company or the subsidiary company which arise from 
circumstances occurring after becoming a subsidiary company or prior to ceasing 
to be a subsidiary company.   
In line with this policy term, P would need to be a subsidiary of R at the time of the 
circumstances which gave rise to a claim. In this case, it would be the time the purchase of 
the property fell through.  
According to the Companies House register, all of Ps shareholdings were transferred to the 
director of R in 2017, prior to inception of the policy and the purchase of the property falling 
through. At this point P ceased to be a subsidiary of R as the director was now the majority 
shareholder and therefore Zurich was correct in saying that there was no cover for P under 
the policy.  
Following the discussion with Zurich about the claim in question, a change was made on the 
Companies House register to transfer all of Ps shareholdings back to R and as such P 
regaining its subsidiary status. The date of the transfer was backdated to a week prior the 
date of the event being claimed for under the policy. While on the face of it, P was a 
subsidiary company, the policy terms and conditions clearly state that the policy will only 
apply to claims made against a subsidiary company which arise from circumstances 
occurring after becoming a subsidiary company. Backdating the transfer date of the 
shareholdings to cover Ps claim under the policy would create an unjust outcome not in line 
with the spirit of the policy and therefore its fair and reasonable for Zurich to conclude that 
the claim isnt covered. 
Furthermore, Zurich also fairly concluded that the claim concerning Mr D in his personal 
capacity isnt covered by the policy either. This is because the claim is a personal one 
against Mr D and not is his capacity as a director of a company. The policy was taken out for 
the benefit of the company.  
I note that Mr D feels aggrieved that Zurich didnt point out at inception that P didnt appear to be a subsidiary of R as it could have taken out a separate policy to cover P. This isnt 
something I would expect Zurich to investigate at inception of a policy. It is normal practice 
for this to be checked by the insurer when validating a claim, as was the case here. Im 
persuaded that Zurich relied on the information provided by R (via its broker) when Zurich 
said that P would be covered under the policy as a subsidiary company. Im satisfied that the 
onus was on R to ensure the information provided to Zurich was correct. I believe that had 
the correct information been provided to Zurich, they would have advised R that P wouldnt 
be covered under the policy as it wasnt a subsidiary company.
R felt that Zurich was delaying matters with the claim. Zurich said the information they 
requested was necessary to determine whether P was a subsidiary of R. Zurich did however 
agree that there were delays on their part and communication couldve been better. In light 
of this, they offered R £200 as a goodwill gesture and an apology. 
Im satisfied Zurich have acted in line with their terms and conditions and it was reasonable 
for them to decline this claim based on the available evidence. I know this will be 
disappointing to R but unfortunately as P wasnt a subsidiary company there is no cover 
under the policy.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Zurich Insurance PLCs offer to pay R £200 as a gesture of goodwill and an apology to 
acknowledge some of the delays caused is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Zurich 
should contact R to arrange the payment if they havent already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Ankita Patel
Ombudsman