DRN-3263305
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint is about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of a claim made 
under a housing warranty insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H made a claim for water ingress through a housing warranty insurance policy 
underwritten by Amtrust. 
Amtrust accepted the claim and appointed an agent who Ill refer to as M to investigate the 
cause of damage and prepare a scope of works for the repairs.
Repairs were attempted to the property but didnt fix the issue. Mr and Mrs H complained to 
Amtrust as they were unhappy with Ms management of the claim over the previous 18 
months.
Amtrust responded to Mr and Mrs H. It agreed there had been delays and poor service 
during the claim. It provided a timeline of events and highlighted where it thought the service 
provided wasnt good enough. And it offered Mr and Mrs H £350 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by M.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with Amtrusts response and referred the matter to our service. 
They didnt think it placed enough weight on Ms conduct, and they thought the offer of 
compensation was too low.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded there were around nine months of avoidable delays during the claim which had an 
impact on Mr and Mrs H. So, they recommended Amtrust increased the amount of 
compensation to £800 total to better reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Amtrust accepted our investigators findings. Mr and Mrs H emphasised that their complaint 
was about Ms conduct, and in order to resolve things they wanted a formal letter of apology 
signed by named individuals at M. They said that otherwise they would have no way of 
knowing if those responsible would be held to account, and in order to reduce the possibility 
of the same thing happening to other customers.
Amtrust said it had acknowledged the poor service and apologised in its final response. It 
added that it reviewed all upheld decisions from our service and took collective and 
individual action where required to improve its service. But it didnt agree that it was 
reasonable to single out individuals in this manner when considering poor service. 
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What follows is a brief summary of the key points I consider relevant to my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party. It simply reflects the informal nature of this 
service. But Ive carefully considered everything that has been provided in reaching my 
decision.
Mr and Mrs H have been clear that their complaint is about the actions of M, and that their 
dealings with Amtrust directly have been satisfactory. And theyve also said that this isnt a 
matter concerning financial compensation. But they are unhappy that M has appeared to act 
without consequence. 
I accept the strength of feeling Mr and Mrs H have here. The claims process has clearly 
caused them a level of disruption, distress, and upset. So, I can understand why they want 
to hold certain individuals to account.
Our role isnt to regulate or reprimand businesses. And our awards arent intended to be 
punitive; where we think an apology is required, we will recommend a business does so. But 
Im unable to compel a business, or an individual at a business to admit something. I can 
only look at whether Amtrust has treated Mr and Mrs H fairly and reasonably. 
In this claim, M are the appointed agents of Amtrust. Therefore, Amtrust is responsible for 
the actions of M in line with the rules which govern our service. I can see that Amtrust has 
apologised to Mr and Mrs H for the poor service they received from M and offered them 
compensation. Having reviewed everything, I think that the £800 compensation now 
recommended for the avoidable delays is fair, and in line with awards our service has made 
in similar complaints. 
Im also persuaded that Amtrusts apology is reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont 
require it to do anything further than our investigator recommended.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In order to put things right for Mr H 
and Mrs H, Amtrust Europe Limited must pay them a total of £800 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman