DRN-2692592
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as T have complained that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc unfairly 
turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were impacted by the 
Covid-19 pandemic.   
 
Miss H, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf. Miss H has also brought 
complaints on behalf of her other businesses and those are being dealt with separately. 
What happened
T hold a business interruption insurance policy with Ecclesiastical. T claimed on their policy 
after they were impacted by the Governments actions in response to Covid-19.  However, 
Ecclesiastical said the policy didnt cover Ts claim under either the extensions for 
prevention of access or specified disease cover. It said this was because the extension for 
prevention of access specifically excluded cover where the closure or restriction was as a 
result of an infectious disease. And, while the other extension did cover interruption or 
interference to business as a result of a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 wasnt on that 
list.   
 
T complained to Ecclesiastical as they didnt agree with its interpretation of the policys 
terms.  
 
As T remained unhappy with Ecclesiasticals response they brought their complaint to us. T 
made a number of detailed points and provided extracts of the Supreme Court judgment on 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) test case  which they believed supported their view 
that their claim should be paid. 
 
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He thought 
Ecclesiastical had fairly applied the exclusion relating to closure by a local authority as a 
result of the occurrence of an infectious disease and he didnt think the policy provided cover 
for Covid-19 as a specified disease as this wasnt one of the diseases specified by the 
policy.  
 
Miss H didnt accept our investigators view. She said the central points to Ts complaint 
were: 
The exclusion in the prevention of access term was clearly intended to exclude 
closure of a business caused by an occurrence of an infectious disease at the 
building/premises. She said this exclusion was intended to remove cover where the 
policyholder is responsible for causing the outbreak due to poor hygiene or health 
and safety but does not relate to a prevention of access caused by wider 
circumstances. 
Ecclesiastical is linking a completely unrelated clause (Specified Disease Cover) to 
turn down the claim  when the policy doesnt link these terms.  
 
Miss H asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ts business, but I wont be upholding Ts complaint. Ill explain why.    
   
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
Ecclesiastical has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ts claim.   
 
Miss H has made a number of detailed points. As shes clarified the crux of Ts complaint, I 
will focus my decision on those central issues. 
 
Extension for prevention of access 
 
This extension provides cover for business interruption or interference at Ts premises in 
consequence of: 
 
Access to or use of the premises being prevented or hindered by 
(a)damage to neighbouring property by any of the insured events 
(b) any action of a Government Police or Local Authority due to an emergency 
which could endanger human life or neighbouring property 
 
The extension has an exclusion, the relevant part of which says: 
 
(iii) closure or restriction in the use of the premises due to the order or advice of the 
competent local authority as a result of the occurrence of an infectious disease (or the 
discovery of an organism resulting in or likely to result in the occurrence of an infectious 
disease) food poisoning defective drains or other sanitary arrangements or vermin or 
pests 
 
In reaching a decision, one of the things Im required to take into account, is the relevant law. 
Miss H has referred to the FCAs test case and has provided extracts from the Supreme 
Court judgment. However, I think the High Court judgment is more relevant to Ts complaint, 
because the High Court considered this term within Ecclesiasticals policy and this part of the 
judgment wasnt appealed. 
 
Paragraph 376 of the judgment says: 
 
The order or advice contained in the 20 and 23 March government advice and in the 
21 and 26 March Regulations was the order or advice of the competent local 
authority, and was as a result of an occurrence (in fact many occurrences) of an 
infectious disease. Accordingly, the carve-out applies and there is no cover under 
either EIO wording in respect of the closure of or restriction in the use of the 
premises. 
  I appreciate Miss H doesnt agree with Ecclesiasticals interpretation of the term, but I see no 
reason to depart from the position reached in the High Court judgment. I think Ts premises 
closed due to the order or advice of a competent local authority, and that was as a result 
of Covid-19, which the World Health Organisations website describes as an infectious 
disease. I dont think theres anything in the exclusion that requires the case of Covid-19 to 
have been at Ts premises.  
 
Extension for specified disease 
 
The relevant part of this extension covers business interruption or interference at Ts 
premises in consequence of: 
 
(a) any occurrence of a specified disease at the premises or within a radius of 25 
miles of the premises 
 
To define what Ecclesiastical consider to be a specified disease, the policy gives a list of 
diseases that it covers. However, Covid-19 isnt on the list. Therefore, I dont think this 
extension provides cover for T in the circumstances of this claim. 
 
This extension is distinct from the extension for prevention of access. I can see that in 
explaining why the extension for prevention of access doesnt provide cover, Ecclesiastical 
has referred to wording within the extension for specified disease. I think it was reasonable 
for Ecclesiastical to do this in order to show how wording in other parts of the policy reflects 
the intention of cover in other terms. For clarity, I have considered both extensions 
separately and, unfortunately, neither provides T with cover. 
 
I think Ecclesiastical has also explained why the separate specified disease extension which 
looks like it might provide cover, doesnt. And I think thats reasonable. As T isnt disputing 
whether this extension provides cover, Im not going to comment on it any further.  
 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Miss H was hoping for, but I dont think I can fairly require 
Ecclesiastical to cover Ts claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman