DRN-4159649
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the amount Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited paid in 
settlement of a claim he made under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mr M is unhappy with the valuation placed on his 
vehicle following a total loss claim under his policy.
Our investigator thought Mr Ms claim should be upheld. She said Admiral had based its 
valuation on only one of the recognised motor industry trade guides. But she felt a fairer 
settlement was the average of the available valuations from the four guides our service 
typically relies on. So, she said Admiral should increase the settlement to £11,227.50. 
Neither Admiral nor Mr M responded to our investigators assessment. So, as no agreement 
has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. But Im also intending 
to make an additional award to reflect the fact that Mr Ms vehicle had a new engine. Ill 
explain why in more detail.
Mr Ms policy covers him for the market value of his vehicle, at the time of loss  which 
is fairly standard within the motor insurance industry.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Admiral initially deemed the market value of Mr Ms vehicle to be £9,905 which was later 
increased to £10,138.82 following a review from one of its engineers. But Mr M complains 
that the valuation placed on his vehicle by Admiral is too low. He says he is unable to 
replace his vehicle with one of a similar make and model, in the market, for that amount. 
Our investigator obtained her own valuations from the motor trade guides our service 
typically uses when assessing complaints about motor valuations. She used the correct 
mileage and date of loss when obtaining these valuations, which provided the following 
market value figures:
Glasss: £9,875
Percayso (formerly Cazoo): £12,580
CAP: unable to provide a valuation
AutoTrader: unable to provide a valuation
Our services normal approach in these types of complaints is to say a valuation within the 
range of valuations returned by the trade guides is fair, provided theres no other evidence to 
suggest the lower guide values might not reflect the likely cost of buying a similar vehicle. In 
this particular case, theres a fair amount of variance between the valuations returned by the 
motor trade guides, so Ive looked at the other evidence available. Namely, advertisements 
for vehicles similar to Mr Ms for sale. 
While we dont place as much weight on advertisements as we do on the guides, they do 
provide a useful check when we are trying to work out what a fair valuation is, in light of a 
range of values returned by the guides. I do of course appreciate vehicles dont always sell 
at what their advertised for, but our research suggests there is now much less room for 
negotiation and many sell at or close to the advertised price. 
However, the difficulty in finding a fair value in this particular case, ie the cost of replacing 
Mr Ms vehicle, is that it had a new engine which had only done 70,000 miles. And I think this 
would most likely have had an impact on the value. Its not been possible to find adverts for 
a similar vehicle with a new engine and it is not reflected in the guides either. But I do think 
this would have some impact. 
Some of the adverts I have seen, albeit for similar vehicles without a new engine, do have a 
lower mileage or no mileage shown. But I think they could suggest the higher guide value is 
the right starting point. However, this has to be balanced against the lower guide value. So, 
in this particular case, I think to be sure Mr M gets the right amount it is appropriate to start 
with an average of the guide values available. This is £11,227.50. But I think something 
needs to be added to this to reflect the fact Mr Ms vehicle had a new engine. 
I told Admiral I was minded to decide that an increase of 20% on the market value price 
would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances to reflect the new engine. Admiral 
responded with comments from one of its in-house engineers, who disagreed that a new 
engine would have any bearing on the market value of the vehicle at all. He said:
Reviewed in relation to the FOS observations regarding a replacement engine, from 
an engineering/insurance/resale/part ex prospective a replacement engine would 
have no material influence on a vehicles saleable market value.
 
An engine is an essential part of any motor vehicle without which a vehicle is not fit 
for purpose or operational. If then an engine is required and as essential to the 
vehicles purpose/use, there is no increase in the value simply because the engine 
has been replaced.
Ive thought very carefully about the additional evidence Admiral has provided on this point. 
But having done so, I remain persuaded that a hypothetical, potential buyer would be willing 
to pay more for a vehicle like Mr Ms, with a new engine, than for an identical one without a 
new engine. For me  its logical to assume that someone would pay more for the same 
model of vehicle with a newer engine, because this makes it better in terms of reliability and 
performance and makes it likely to last longer.And Admirals engineer hasnt provided any persuasive supporting evidence that a new 
engine wouldnt increase the market value. Had he (or Admiral), for example, contacted 
several dealerships and obtained their view on whether theyd have expected to sell Mr Ms 
vehicle for more than another of the same make, model and mileage but without the newer 
engine, then this coupled with the engineers opinion might have persuaded me that the new 
engine wouldnt increase the value. But based solely on the evidence available, on balance, 
I remain of the view that its fair to say the new engine would have increased the market 
value of Mr Ms vehicle by 20%.
Ive also considered Mr Ms concern that he isnt able to replace his vehicle in the market for 
the amount paid by Admiral, or the amount suggested by our investigator  based on sales 
adverts for similar vehicles hes provided to us. As will be clear from what Ive said above, I 
agree with Mr M that he couldnt replace his vehicle for the amount Admiral offered. And, as 
Ive also explained, I think it would cost him about 20% more than our investigator suggested 
because of the fact that, in theory at least, hell need to find one with a new engine.  
So, in the particular circumstances of this case, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Admiral to add 20% to the increased valuation (£11,227.50) returned by the trade guides. 
This amounts to £13,473.
Admiral should also add 8% simple interest to the unpaid part of this settlement, calculated 
from the date Admiral made the decision to settle the claim at £10,138.82 to the date the 
payment is made. This is to compensate Mr M for being deprived of the use of funds which I 
think he was reasonably entitled to under the terms of his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited must increase the settlement to £13,473 and pay 8% 
simple interest on any part of the settlement which remains unpaid, calculated from the date 
it decided to settle the claim at £10,138.82 to the date the payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman