DRN-1473958
 
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
associated with her mortgage by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS).
What happened
Mrs L took out a mortgage with BOS in January 2008 and at the same time purchased a PPI 
policy which was intended to cover the repayments on her mortgage if she was off work 
through unemployment, accident or sickness.
Mrs L has complained that the PPI was mis-sold. BOS has said the PPI wasnt mis-sold. 
BOS also considered if any excess commissions and profit share had been charged on the 
premiums and said that the mortgage Mrs L took out didnt fall within the rules and guidance 
introduced about this. Therefore, no refund for excess commission was due.
Mrs L wasnt happy with BOS response so she brought her complaint to this service. Mrs L 
is represented by a third party. 
Our adjudicator said that they didnt think that the PPI was mis-sold. 
Mrs L remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
When Mrs L brought her complaint to this service, she completed a questionnaire where she 
indicated she remembered all the details about the PPI were discussed over the telephone 
and she did not meet with anyone. She also said she had private healthcare in place, some 
savings and if the terms of the policy been made clear she would not have agreed to take 
out the PPI. 
Mrs L has since indicated that she didnt have private healthcare at the time she took out her 
mortgage. She has also told us she had sick pay of up to 12 months from her employer and 
some savings she could have used to pay her mortgage if needed.
The records provided by BOS show that Mrs Ls mortgage application and separate PPI 
application form were both completed in branch, with the branch name and interviewer 
completed in boxes at the top of the forms. The mortgage application form had a section for a number of insurance requirements and in 
that section Mrs L declined other insurance products but signed to express an interest in 
taking out the PPI. A totally separate application document was then completed and signed 
by Mrs L on the same date as the mortgage application document. This PPI application 
document shows the benefit that would be paid by the PPI and the monthly premium that 
would be charged. 
This all happened over twenty years ago and I have to base my findings on what is most 
likely to have happened. I have taken into account that memories can fade over time and I 
am therefore placing stronger reliance on the documents that were completed at the time.
Looking at Mrs Ls circumstances at the time she took out the PPI Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold and I shall explain why. 
Taking account of the documents completed, I think Mrs L was aware she had a choice 
whether to have the policy or not. On the mortgage application form she expressed an 
interest in PPI and then completed and signed a totally separate PPI application form. 
As the PPI application form was completed in branch, I think BOS recommended the PPI to 
Mrs L. So it needed to check it was suitable for her. Looking at the information provided on 
her application forms at the time I cannot see there is anything to indicate the policy was 
unsuitable. 
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ls circumstances at the time I think she was eligible to take 
out the policy. And it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover, for example having any medical conditions she already knew about. So I 
think the PPI would have been useful for her if something went wrong.
Mrs Ls employer would pay some sick pay if she was unwell. She has said this was for up to 
12 months although no evidence of this has been provided. But in any event the PPI 
wouldve paid a benefit in addition to any sick pay, meaning Mrs L could have used her sick 
pay for other household expenses at what could have been a difficult time. 
I note that Mrs L says she had a savings account which she could have used to pay her 
mortgage if unable to work. Again any savings could have been used for other expenses and 
may have been essential if Mrs L was not working.
 The cost and benefit of the policy was set out on the PPI application form, so I think she 
should have known the costs. And the PPI would have provided a useful benefit.  
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. 
From the information Ive seen it also looks like the PPI was affordable. So taking everything 
into account, even if the information provided at the time was not as clear and full as it 
couldve been, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs L off taking 
out the cover and I think it was a suitable recommendation.
It follows I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by BOS. I think at the time Mrs L was aware she 
had a choice whether to take it out and she thought it would be useful to her.
Ive also considered if any commission and profit share that would have been part of the PPI 
premiums would need to be refunded by BOS. However, the type of mortgage Mrs L took out is not affected by the rules and guidance put in place by the Financial Conduct Authority 
relating to this. So, no excess commission or profit share is due to be refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold to Mrs L by Bank of 
Scotland plc and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman