DRN-3280426
The complaint
Mr Bs representative complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined his 
claim on his home contents insurance policy for a watch stolen in a burglary.
References to Mr B, or his representative, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of AXA involved throughout the claim but for 
the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to AXA.
What happened
Mr B was the victim of a burglary and he made a claim to AXA on his home contents 
insurance policy for the items that were stolen. 
The full claim consisted of a number of luxury items. AXA settled the claim but declined to 
pay out for one item - a luxury watch. 
It was confirmed the watch had been bought as a gift for Mr B by his ex-partner, so Mr B did 
not have the receipt. AXA contacted Mr Bs ex-partner and he confirmed he had bought a 
luxury watch for him. Mr B supplied two photographs of himself wearing the watch as 
additional evidence.
 
Despite this evidence AXA declined cover for the watch and gave the reason that the value 
of the item and the limited information provided to support ownership of the watch, was not 
sufficient.
As Mr Bs representative was not happy with AXA, he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into the case and decided AXA had not acted fairly in declining the 
claim for the watch and so upheld Mr Bs complaint. 
AXA did not agree and said, the information provided proves neither ownership, make, 
model or authenticity and it was not prepared to consider settlement without proof of 
purchase or ownership. 
As AXA are unhappy with our investigators view the case has been brought to me for a final 
decision to be made.
What I provisionally said
I looked at the list of the individual items stolen in the burglary that Mr B had claimed for. 
This was made up of a number of designer branded luxury items, including several watches, 
bags, and items of clothing. 
Within Mr Bs home contents policy, AXA lists the evidence that it may require the insured to 
produce in support of ownership of stolen items.  It says To help prove your claim we may 
require you to provide original purchase receipts, invoices, bank or credit card statements, 
instruction booklets, photographs, utility bills, pre-purchase surveys or plans and deeds of 
your property.
Because the items Mr B claimed for were all of high value it is reasonable to expect AXA to 
request some evidence.
A loss adjuster attended Mr Bs home. A list, including details of evidence provided, of the 
items that had been stolen in the burglary was made. 
For the majority of the items Mr B was able to provide a receipt but there were several items 
where a receipt was unavailable.  
When AXA checked the list and evidence it noticed that the description of one watch, and 
the statement submitted as evidence, did not match.
When this mistake was highlighted to Mr B he realised the statement he had submitted was 
for a different luxury watch he had bought for his ex-partner. The watch on the statement 
was not part of his claim and so the statement was discounted as evidence.  
Mr B said the stolen watch detailed on the loss adjusters list was a gift to him from his 
ex-partner so he did not have a receipt. To verify the correct watch Mr Bs ex-partner was 
contacted by AXA and he gave verbal confirmation that he had bought Mr B a luxury watch, 
but he was unable to confirm the specific make or model.
AXA accepted Mr Bs claim for all items on the list but declined the claim for this watch. It 
said Mr B had not produced enough evidence and asked for further proof. After a search, Mr 
B managed to find two photographs of himself wearing the watch as additional evidence. 
Based on the evidence I have seen and considered I believe it is reasonable to accept that 
Mr B did own a watch of this brand. And that it was stolen in the burglary. There is a witness 
statement, a presentation box and pictures of Mr B wearing the watch. I think Mr B has done 
everything he can to provide suitable and appropriate evidence.  
The uncertainty is exactly which model of watch should be replaced. And neither AXAs 
experts, or Mr Bs representative, have been able to obtain this information from the 
manufacturer despite numerous attempts.
AXA said  it has been unable to identify the model of watch that was stolen from either the 
photographs or model number given by Mr B and declined the claim  as it has not been 
provided with sufficient documentation to validate the make and model of the stolen watch 
despite making every attempt to do so. 
Mr Bs representative said the watch model cannot be identified as it has been discontinued. 
He gave details of a watch of the same brand that he said was the nearest equivalent. The 
value was £3,540. He explained that this was the replacement for the discontinued watch as 
the model number is consistent with the watch brands numbering. He also said that the 
straps on the stolen watch and the suggested nearest replacement are the same.
In AXAs validation report of 18 May 2020 it acknowledged that the stolen watch is no longer 
available and gave a reserve value of £3,850 for a replacement model. This amount is 
slightly higher than the value of the watch that Mr Bs representative has stated is the 
nearest equivalent.
I think there is adequate evidence to prove that Mr B was the owner of a luxury watch of this 
type. As the reserve value given by AXA and the nearest equivalent watch identified by Mr Bs representative are so close in value, I think that AXA should settle the claim for the 
watch.   
AXA should either replace the watch through its own suppliers with the model detailed by Mr 
B as the nearest equivalent or pay him the cost of £3,540 on production of a valid up to date 
purchase receipt.
 
Therefore, I intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint and require AXA to settle Mr Bs claim for the 
stolen watch, based on the nearest equivalent identified by Mr Bs representative. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Mr Bs representative responded and said that both he and Mr B agree with the provisional 
decision.
AXA responded and said the evidence provided caused it concern and they did not accept it 
was adequate substantiation. 
It said they were provided with a photo, a description, witness statement and a box as 
evidence of the watch. 
It said the photo was not clear 
It said the witness statement was unusual as the witness could not give any make, 
model etc. It also said the initial witness statement was withdrawn due to discrepancies.
It said there is nothing to support the presentation box provided was for the specific 
watch that was claimed and said it did not prove what it held i.e. a bracelet, earrings etc.
AXA said that it considers that there is mild intimation that Mr B had something made by 
the specific designer brand, but this may not be a watch or for the value suggested. 
AXA asks for consideration as to whether the approach taken is consistent with other 
previous cases.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence I have accepted as adequate substantiation in this case is 
Two photos provided of Mr B wearing the watch on separate occasions.
A witness statement. AXA has said that the initial statement from the witness was 
withdrawn. This may be correct, however as this witness statement was not used as 
evidence, I dont think it has much bearing on the complaint.
Presentation Box. This was accepted as a watch presentation box at the time AXAs loss 
adjuster completed its validation report. There is nothing in this report to state that it 
questioned this wasnt a bona-fide presentation box for a watch of this brand.
Although AXA still do not feel there is adequate substantiation, as in my provisional 
response, I think Mr B has done everything he can to provide suitable and appropriate 
evidence.
I believe it is reasonable to accept that Mr B did own a watch of this brand and that it was 
stolen in the burglary along with the other items. 
AXA has said that on a similar complaint that our service has considered, we decided in 
favour of the business and we should follow this approach here. Our service considers each complaint on its individual merits and in the present case I find distinctions in the 
circumstances with the case AXA has referred to. 
Therefore, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require AXA to settle Mr Bs claim for the stolen 
watch, based on the nearest equivalent identified by Mr Bs representative. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint.
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to settle the claim for the watch. AXA should either replace 
the watch through its own suppliers with the model detailed by Mr B as the nearest 
equivalent or pay him the cost of £3,540 on production of a valid up to date purchase receipt.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman