DRN-3546442
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way that MotoNovo Finance Limited has dealt with a hire 
purchase agreement under which a car was supplied to him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in May 2022 in which I described what had 
happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr S under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo 
Finance that he electronically signed in March 2019. There were some issues with 
the car and Mr S paid for a diagnostic test in May 2019 which confirmed those 
issues. Mr S complained to the dealer and it agreed that he could reject the car. The 
dealer contacted MotoNovo Finance for a settlement figure and Mr S was given a 
collection note by the dealer which showed that the car had been rejected.
Mr S continued to make the monthly payments for the car to MotoNovo Finance but 
the dealer reimbursed him for those payments. The dealer stopped trading in about 
March 2020 and stopped making payments to Mr S. He complained to MotoNovo 
Finance in July 2020 that he was having to make payments for the car but hed 
returned it to the dealer. He said that the dealer was looking to source an alternative 
car for him but hadnt provided anything suitable so had been covering the cost of the 
monthly instalments.
MotoNovo Finance said that the location of the car was unknown, that the dealer had 
contacted it after the date of the collection note to say that Mr S had decided to keep 
the car and that it hadnt heard from Mr S until he raised his complaint. It said that it 
was not in a position to unwind the agreement. Mr S then complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He was 
persuaded that Mr S had agreed with the dealer to reject the car and that he 
accepted the dealers offer to find him a replacement car. He also said that 
MotoNovo Finance had been contacted twice by a third party asking about the 
finance on the car and said they had bought the car from the dealer.
He recommended that MotoNovo Finance should: refund all monthly payments 
(except the ones paid for by the dealer), refund the cost of the diagnostic report; 
unwind the hire purchase agreement and remove it from his credit file; pay interest 
on the refunds; and pay £200 compensation to Mr S.
MotoNovo Finances solicitors, on its behalf, has asked for this complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. The solicitors say that, if Mr S considered that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality, he should have provided MotoNovo Finance with an 
opportunity to repair or replace the car  but he didnt do so, the car cant be rejected 
and its not for the dealer to agree the return of the car or the unwind of any 
agreement. They say that Mr S had agreed to keep the car in his possession and to 
pay for the car but he hasnt kept it in his possession, hasnt rejected it and the car 
belongs to MotoNovo Finance but cant be located. They say theres no evidence that 
the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision, which were as follows:
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S. Whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car that was supplied to 
Mr S was about five years old, had been driven for 32,000 miles and had a price of 
£46,000. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components 
within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly 
how long that time is will also depend on a number of factors.
The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr S had part-exchanged a car which had 
a value of £63,000 but outstanding finance on that car of £50,000 was settled and the 
difference between those amounts of £13,000 was used as a deposit for the car. The 
amount of credit provided to Mr S under the agreement was £33,000 which he 
agreed to repay by 59 monthly payments of £708.01 and a final payment of £907.01.
The car was supplied to Mr S in March 2019 but there were issues with it so he took 
the car to a garage in May 2019 and paid it £48 for a diagnostic report. The report 
lists the following faults with the car: water leaking through a front window seal 
causing an electrical fault affecting the window and wing mirror motors resulting in a 
short in the wiring harness and the stereo and sat-nav not working as a result; an 
intermittent gearbox fault; a faulty shock absorber; perished left rear suspension; the 
A/C not working and showing an air pump fault; and an oil leak around the gearbox 
area.
That was less than two months after the car had been supplied to Mr S. The report 
records the cars mileage as being 31,988 (which is less than the mileage of 32,000 
shown on the hire purchase agreement) so its clear that Mr S had had limited use of 
the car. I consider it to be more likely than not that the faults listed on the diagnostic 
report were present when the car was supplied to Mr S and that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at that time because of those faults.
Mr S complained to the dealer about the faults and the dealer said that he could 
reject the car  but the car belonged to MotoNovo Finance and it would be for it to 
decide how to respond to the issues with the car. Mr S signed the dealers collection 
note in May 2019 which says that he had  agreed rejection of this vehicle. The 
vehicle is not of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and or as described with Faults 
not consummate with the age and mileage of the vehicle.
MotoNovo Finance says that it was contacted by Mr S the next day and that he said 
that the car was being returned to the dealer and that he wanted to stop paying his 
monthly instalments. It says that it was also contacted by the dealer and was told that 
the dealer was accepting the car back but was waiting for it to be returned to them. It 
also says that it was contacted by the dealer in July 2019 and it said that Mr S had 
decided to keep the car so there was no need for the agreement to be ended.
Mr S says that he agreed with the dealer that the dealer would look for an alternative 
car for him so he continued to make the monthly payments of £708.01 and he would 
be reimbursed by the dealer for those payments. Hes provided evidence to show 
that the dealer made payments to him of £708.01 in May, July, August, September 
and November 2019 and March 2020  but that evidence also shows that the dealer paid him £1,093.02 in October 2019, £1,093.02 in December 2019, £1,094 in 
January 2020 and £1,123.02 in February 2020. Its not clear why the dealer paid Mr 
S more than £708.01 in some months, but the extra amounts total more than £1,500.
The dealer stopped trading in about March 2020 and made no further payments to 
Mr S but Mr S has continued to make monthly payments of £708.01 to MotoNovo 
Finance. MotoNovo Finance was contacted in September 2019 by a third party to 
check if there was any outstanding finance on the car and a third party contacted it in 
July 2020 and said that theyd bought the car in good faith in September 2019.
Mr S contacted MotoNovo Finance about the car in May 2019 but he then didnt 
make any further contact with it until he made his complaint to it in July 2020. I 
consider it to be more likely than not that Mr S did return the car to the dealer in May 
2019 and that he reached an agreement with the dealer that the dealer would 
reimburse him for his monthly payments on the car while a replacement car was 
sourced for Mr S  but he never received a replacement car. I also consider it to be 
more likely than not that the dealer sold the car to a third party in September 2019 
even though the car belonged to MotoNovo Finance.
Mr S had electronically signed the hire purchase agreement in March 2019 and hed 
agreed, amongst other things, to make the monthly payments for the car and to keep 
the car in his possession as the registered keeper  but he hasnt kept the car in his 
possession. I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied 
to Mr S and, if Mr S had complained to MotoNovo Finance, I would expect it to have 
taken action in response to his complaint  which might have included repairing the 
faults, paying him compensation or allowing him to reject the car  but he didnt 
complain to MotoNovo Finance and it wasnt able to take appropriate action in 
response to the car not being of satisfactory quality.
I consider that Mr S has been the victim of the dealers actions  but MotoNovo 
Finance wasnt involved with those actions, I dont consider that it had enough 
information from Mr S or the dealer to know what was happening. As a result of those 
actions, Mr S no longer has the car so cant return it to MotoNovo Finance and 
continues to be contractually obliged to make the monthly payments under the 
agreement.
I sympathise with Mr S for the situation in which he how finds himself and the 
substantial liability that hes incurred as a result of the dealers actions. But (other 
than supplying him with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality) Im not persuaded 
that theres enough evidence to show that MotoNovo Finance has acted incorrectly in 
these circumstances. Nor am I persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me 
to require it to end the hire purchase agreement. I suggest that Mr S contacts 
MotoNovo Finance to discuss his options under the agreement. If he hasnt already 
done so, I suggest that he also contacts the administrator or equivalent of the 
dealers business, the police and the insurer of the car about these events as they 
may be able to help him in these circumstances.
I consider that Mr Ss use and enjoyment of the car between March 2019, when it 
was supplied to him, and May 2019, when he returned it to the dealer, are likely to 
have been impacted by the issues with the car. Mr S has also been caused a very 
large amount of distress and inconvenience by these events which started as a result 
of the issues with the car. I would normally consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable for the supplier to pay some compensation in circumstances like these for 
the consumers loss of use and enjoyment and the distress and inconvenience 
caused. But Mr S received more than £1,500 more from the dealer between May 2019 and March 2020 than the payments that he made to MotoNovo Finance during 
that period  and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to 
require MotoNovo Finance to pay him any compensation for those issues in these 
circumstances.
Because the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S, I find that 
it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay him £48 to reimburse 
him for the cost of the diagnostic report. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to pay any other compensation to Mr S or to take any 
other action in response to his complaint.
Mr S has responded to my provisional decision in detail. He says, in summary and amongst 
other things, that: 
the supplier of the car was the dealer and the finance company was MotoNovo 
Finance; 
he acted as the law states in rejecting the car and returned it to the dealer and 
informed MotoNovo Finance of the reasons - and it liaised with the dealer in closing 
the agreement;
two months later the dealer contacted MotoNovo Finance and informed it that he was 
keeping the car and not terminating the agreement  but that this wasnt what hed 
agreed and he didnt communicate with MotoNovo Finance about that;
the investigator evaluated all the information provided and recommended that his 
complaint should be upheld;
the collection note shows that the car was rejected and returned to the dealer;
MotoNovo Finance didnt raise any issues or ask to inspect the car but accepted the 
rejection and didnt request it to be returned back to it;
the agreement states the cars mileage as 32,000 miles which was rounded up by the 
dealer as the mileage was 31,988 and he had very limited use of the car and 
experienced faults with it from the outset;
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality which was agreed by the dealer and was 
explained to MotoNovo Finance;
MotoNovo Finance was contacted in September 2019 by a third party and it should 
have raised that with him at the time  it was aware that the car was being sold but 
didnt confirm that with him;
hes of the strong opinion that MotoNovo Finance is aware of the location of the car 
and has had communication with the buyer which it didnt disclose to him;
he did agree for the dealer to look for another car but not as a replacement for this 
car  and it was agreed that the agreement would be terminated; 
he was advised that whilst the agreement was being terminated any payments being 
taken out would be refunded and it was never agreed that the agreement wouldnt be 
terminated; 
he requests me to fully re-evaluate my decision, taking into consideration his 
comments, the timeline of events, call recordings from MotoNovo Finance, the 
evidence provided previously and the repairs report; 
he's been caused severe anxiety and distress knowing that there is an active 
agreement that is being defaulted and which is affecting his credit; andthe agreement should be terminated and it would be helpful for his monthly payments 
to be returned but if that isnt possible he will seek legal advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. In these 
circumstances, the dealer sold the car to MotoNoto Finance and it supplied the car to Mr S  
with an option for him to buy the car at the end of the hire purchase agreement  so it was 
MotoNovo Finance (and not the dealer) that supplied the car to Mr S.
I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S and he 
returned the car to the dealer in May 2019 - the dealer provided him with a collection note 
and sent an e-mail to MotoNovo Finance about unwinding the hire purchase agreement. 
MotoNovo Finance has provided evidence to show that the dealer then told it that the car 
hadnt yet been returned by Mr S and that it was told in July 2019 that Mr S had decided to 
keep the car so an unwind of the agreement wasnt required. Mr S had continued to make 
the monthly payments that were due under the agreement  and he continued to do so until 
July 2020 when he contacted MotoNovo Finance.
As Mr S continued to make those payments and it was told by the dealer that Mr S hadnt 
returned the car, I dont consider that it was reasonable to expect MotoNovo Finance to have 
ended the agreement. Mr S had reached an agreement with the dealer that the dealer would 
reimburse him for his monthly payments on the car and look for another car for him. I 
consider it to be clear that MotoNovo Finance didnt know about that arrangement. 
MotoNovo Finance was contacted in September 2019 by a third party to check if there was 
any outstanding finance on the car and a third party contacted it in July 2020 and said that 
theyd bought the car in good faith in September 2019  but Im not persuaded that the 
September 2019 contact was enough to show that MotoNovo Finance ought to have known 
about the arrangements or that it should have contacted Mr S at that time. Ive seen no 
evidence to show that MotoNovo Finance is aware of the location of the car or has had any 
contact with the buyer that it should have disclosed to Mr S.
As I said in my provisional decision, I consider that Mr S has been the victim of the dealers 
actions  but MotoNovo Finance wasnt involved with those actions, I dont consider that it 
had enough information from Mr S or the dealer to know what was happening. I sympathise 
with him for the situation in which he how finds himself and the substantial liability that hes 
incurred as a result of the dealers actions - but (other than supplying him with a car that 
wasnt of satisfactory quality) Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that 
MotoNovo Finance has acted incorrectly in these circumstances. 
I set out in my provisional decision some actions that he could take and nothing in this 
decision prevents him from taking legal action about these events. But Im not persuaded 
that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require MotoNovo Finance to end the hire 
purchase agreement or to pay him any compensation (other than to reimburse £48 to him for 
the cost of the diagnostic report). 
Putting things rightI find that it would be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo Finance to pay £48 to Mr S to 
reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report but Im not persuaded that it would be fair 
or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to pay any other compensation to 
Mr S or to take any other action in response to his complaint.
.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order MotoNovo Finance Limited to 
pay £48 to Mr S to reimburse him for the cost of the diagnostic report.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before11 August 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman