DRN-3604461
The complaint
Mr K complains Topaz Finance Limited wrongly paid service and legal charges demanded 
by the freeholder of his buy to let property and added them to his mortgage account.
What happened
In around November 2007 Mr K took out a 20-year interest only buy to let mortgage for 
around £282,000 with Topaz, which was secured over a residential property. Mr K owned 
the property on a long lease.
Mr K was in dispute with the freeholder about service charges demanded under the terms of 
his lease. The freeholder issued legal proceedings against Mr K. And in October 2020 the 
property tribunal made a decision that Mr K owed the freeholder service charges of around 
£950.
In May 2021 the freeholder served notice under section 146 of the Law of Property Act 1925 
threatening to forfeit the lease if Mr K didnt pay the £950 plus costs and interest. To avoid 
losing the security the mortgage was held against, Topaz decided to pay the amount the 
freeholder was claiming and added it to Mr Ks mortgage. Mr K was unhappy since hed paid 
the £950 which is all he felt he owed; he thought the costs and interest the freeholder were 
demanding were unreasonable; there was no court order he should pay the costs; and he 
didnt think Topaz could pay unless hed agreed.
Topaz didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint on grounds they were entitled under the terms of the 
mortgage to take any reasonable action to protect their interest in Mr Ks property. Mr K 
didnt accept that outcome so brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
investigator felt Topaz had acted reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the mortgage in making payment to protect their security. Since Mr K didnt accept our 
investigators view, his complaint was passed to me to review. I recently issued a 
provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Ks strength of feeling about what happened. Whilst I understand he 
will be disappointed, I dont currently intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks mortgage with Topaz relevant to his complaint are 
set out in Sections D3 and 5.
Under Section D3 paragraph d, Mr K is obliged to make any payments he agreed to make 
as occupier of the mortgaged property. They include any service charge due for the 
property.
Under paragraph e he is obliged to meet any responsibilities he has as owner of the 
property, including the responsibilities under the lease. It follows that Mr K is obliged - 
under the mortgage - to pay the service charges and other sums due under the terms of 
the lease.
Under Section 5, where Mr K breaches the terms and conditions of the mortgage, Topaz 
can take any action they consider reasonable to protect their security. That includes making 
payments Mr K hasnt made. Any payment Topaz makes then becomes part of the 
mortgage debt.
Although Topaz could make payment whether Mr K agreed or not, the question here is 
whether it was fair and reasonable for Topaz to make a payment to protect their security 
in the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint.
Under the Law of Property Act 1925 freeholders can forfeit a lease where there is a 
breach of the lease. The freeholder first serves a notice under section 146 of the Act 
specifying the breach complained of. Here the freeholder served a section 146 notice in 
May 2021 setting out the sums they said Mr K owed. They included the service charges of 
£950 the tribunal had found he owed plus interest and legal costs incurred by the 
freeholder.
The section 146 notice specified the breach of the lease as the failure to pay the service 
charge of £950 under Clause 2(iii) (a) of the lease. Mr Ks provided evidence to show hed 
already paid that sum. And hed told Topaz that. I acknowledge the freeholder said the 
£950 was outstanding. But Topazs records suggest the amount he owed had reduced 
when they made payment. And an overpayment was later returned to him. I accept Topaz 
say it was difficult to get hold of Mr K, but I think they ought to have done more to establish 
the position before they paid.
The section 146 notice said the freeholder was claiming costs under Clause 2 (ix) (a) of 
the lease which said Mr K was obliged to pay all proper and reasonable costsincluding 
legal costs...incidental to the preparation and service of a notice under Section 146 of the 
Law of Property Act 1925 by the Lessor or incurred in or in contemplation of proceedings 
under Section 146notwithstanding forfeiture may be avoided otherwise than by relief 
granted by the Court.
There was no court order requiring Mr K to pay the costs and its unclear theyd previously 
been demanded from Mr K by the freeholder. But the tribunal did address costs. The 
decision said the tribunal wasnt making an order under section 20C of the Landlord and 
Tenant Act 1985 that the landlords costs shouldnt be regarded as relevant costs to be 
taken into account in determining the amount of any service charge payable by Mr K. That 
left open the possibility of the freeholder recovering their costs under Clause 2 (ix) (a) of 
the lease that Ive set out above.
It seems likely, based on what I know so far, that Mr K would have had to pay the sums the 
freeholder was demanding in due course. I acknowledge Mr K says he planned to 
challenge the costs the freeholder was seeking but Im not aware he took any steps to do 
so. So, Im not currently persuaded Mr K is in any worse position as a result of Topaz 
paying them on his behalf.
I acknowledge Mr Ks strength of feeling about what happened. But, bearing everything in 
mind, on balance, I currently think its fair and reasonable not to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
My provisional decisionI dont intend to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K hasnt made any comments on my provisional decision and Topaz agreed it.
In the circumstances I see no reason to change my mind. And, for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman