DRN-3040874
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A has turned down a claim they made on their travel insurance policy for 
additional costs they incurred following the extension of their trip due to Covid-19.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr and Mrs B took out a single-trip travel insurance policy through a broker, to 
cover a trip they had booked between 1 and 31 March 2020 to a country Ill call A. They 
travelled as planned on 1 March 2020. 
However, on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. On 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  
formerly known as the Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised against all but essential 
travel abroad. As government closed its borders to all non-residents on 20 March 2020 and 
some social distancing rules were introduced on the following day. And on 23 March 2020, 
the FCDO advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the UK, while the UK government 
imposed wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly known as lockdown. 
Mr and Mrs Bs airline cancelled their original return flight. It scheduled two further return 
flights, but both were ultimately cancelled. Mr and Mrs B sought help from the British 
Embassy, which advised them to book an alternative flight. Mr and Mrs B were able to book 
a new flight with a different airline at a cost of around £1744. They flew back to the UK on 8 
April 2020 and made a claim for the costs of their new flight and also for additional 
medications theyd needed to buy during the unplanned extension of their trip. 
Mapfre turned down Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the costs of their new flight. It said these costs 
werent covered by the policy terms. And it said the total cost of the medications fell below 
the policy excess of £250. 
Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with Mapfres decision not to pay for their new flight. So they 
asked us to look into their complaint. They told us that theyd received refunds for some of 
their original flight costs. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. She didnt think the 
circumstances of the claim and the extension of Mr and Mrs Bs trip were covered by any 
section of the policy. So she felt it was fair for Mapfre to turn down Mr and Mrs Bs claim. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed. They said they understood the investigators findings. But they felt 
theyd been abandoned by the airlines, with no help from their travel agent. They said the 
British Embassy had told them to leave A. They felt abandonment was covered by the terms 
of the policy. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B, I think it was fair for Mapfre to 
turn down their claim. Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Bs policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether 
Mapfre treated them fairly. 
Ive first turned to look at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy, as these form 
the basis of their contract with Mapfre. While Mr and Mrs Bs return flights were cancelled 
while they were abroad, cancellation cover only applies before a policyholder departs for 
their holiday. 
It seems Mapfre considered the claim under the curtailment section of the policy. This 
section of the policy provides cover if a policyholder needs to cut short their trip and return to 
the UK early for one of the following, listed events: 
a) the death, severe injury or serious illness of: 
i) you or any person you are travelling with; 
ii) ii) an immediate relative of yours resident in your home country; 
iii) iii) a close business associate of yours resident in your home country. 
b) your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable due to 
fire, lightning, explosion, earthquake, subsidence, storm, flood, falling trees, riot or civil 
commotion, malicious damage, burst pipes, impact by aircraft, the police requesting your 
presence following burglary or attempted burglary at your home or place of business; 
c) you being unable to continue your trip, as detailed in your travel itinerary, due to loss or 
theft of your passport, or that of any person you are travelling with; 
These proportionate value of costs will be calculated from the date of return to your home 
country. 
2) Reasonable additional travelling expenses incurred by you for returning to your home 
country (economy class) earlier than planned for a reason stated in benefit 1 of this section;
3) Your carer (who is insured on this policy) having to curtail their journey with you due to 
one of the reasons stated above. If you wish to continue your journey, we will pay up to 
£1,000 in total for the costs of extra accommodation and transport to replace your original 
carer; 
4) You, an immediate relative of yours or any person you are travelling with, who is a 
member of the armed forces, emergency services or administrative government employees 
being ordered to return to duty. 
The curtailment section of the policy also says: curtailment is only applicable if you return to 
your home country earlier than planned. 
I think its clear though that Mr and Mrs Bs trip wasnt cut short and they didnt return to the 
UK early. In fact, their trip was extended. While I appreciate their return was delayed through 
circumstances beyond their control and that they followed Embassy advice to buy a new 
flight at their cost, this simply isnt a cost which is covered by this section of the policy. So I 
find it was fair for Mapfre to conclude that Mr and Mrs Bs claim didnt fall within scope of this 
section of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs B have referred to the abandonment cover provided by their policy and have 
suggested this should apply to the circumstances of their claim. Ive thought about this. Abandonment cover falls under the Travel Delay section of the policy. This says: 
You are covered 
1) for a benefit of £20 for the first full 12 hours you are delayed and £10 for each full 12 
hours you are delayed after that, up to a maximum of £100 (regardless of the number of 
incidents of delay) or 
2) up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for your travel and accommodation 
which has not been used and which you have been paid or been contracted to pay for if you 
abandon the trip (on the outward journey only) after the first full 12 hours. (Bold is my 
emphasis). 
If your outward or return flights, sea crossing, coach or train departure to or from your home 
country are delayed for more than 12 hours beyond the intended departure time (as 
specified on your travel ticket) as a result of: 
a) strike or industrial action (provided that when this policy was taken out, there was no 
reasonable expectation that the trip would be affected by such cause); 
b) adverse weather conditions if the underlying and continuing cause;
c) mechanical breakdown or technical fault of the aircraft, coach, train or sea vessel. 
I think the policy terms make it clear that Mapfre will only pay claims for abandonment of a 
policyholders trip, if their departure is delayed on the outward journey for more than 12 
hours because of one of the specific, listed reasons Ive set out above. Mr and Mrs Bs 
outward journey wasnt delayed and they didnt abandon their trip  they were able to travel 
as planned. So I dont find their claim falls within the scope of this cover. And as their return 
flight wasnt delayed due to strike; industrial action; adverse weather or mechanical 
breakdown/technical fault of their aircraft, I think it was fair for Mapfre to conclude that Mr 
and Mrs B werent entitled to any delay benefit payment. 
While I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Bs position, because I appreciate theyve been left 
significantly out of pocket for reasons beyond their control, Im satisfied it was fair and 
reasonable for Mapfre to conclude that their claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. And 
while they havent specifically complained to us about their medical expenses claim, for 
completeness, Id add that the evidence Ive seen shows that the cost of their medication 
and doctors visit did fall below the policy excess. This means I think it was reasonable for 
Mapfre to decline to meet these costs. Overall then, I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds on which I could direct Mapfre to pay Mr and Mrs Bs claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman