DRN-2743270
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC registered a default on his credit file after it closed his 
credit card account.
What happened
Mr J had a credit card with Lloyds, which he was repaying by direct debit. But in 2019 a 
number of these direct debits were reversed. 
This meant he didnt make payments towards the account in January, February, March, 
June, July or August 2019. 
Lloyds then sent Mr J a default notice asking him to clear the arrears on the account by 
15 September. On 16 September 2019, Mr J paid £850 to the account  which very nearly 
repaid his entire balance. 
But from October, Mr J made no further repayments to the account, and by January 2020 
had exceeded his credit limit. Lloyds wrote to Mr J asking him to clear his arrears or contact 
it to make an arrangement to repay this amount in October, January and February. On 
19 April 2020 Lloyds sent Mr J a credit card statement, which said that Mr J needed to make 
a minimum repayment by 14 May. Then, on 23 April, Lloyds wrote to Mr J again to say it had 
ended his credit agreement and that he needed to repay the full balance immediately. At the 
same time, Lloyds registered a default with credit reference agencies.
Mr J doesnt think this was fair. He thinks he had until 14 May to make the payment and hes 
unhappy hes going to have a default on his credit reference for six years. 
Our investigator looked at this and thought that what Lloyds had done was fair. Mr J didnt 
agree. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 provides that before the creditor can terminate an agreement 
or demand earlier repayment of any sum it needs to serve a default notice on the debtor. 
The default notice must specify the nature of the alleged breach, and what action is required 
to remedy it and the date before that action is to be taken.
Ive also taken into account the guidance from the Information Commissioners Office. This 
says that a default may be registered once a customer is more than three months in arrears 
with their payments  and it would expect a default to be registered by the time the 
consumer is six months behind with their payments.
Ive thought about when looking at Mr Js complaint.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr J had been having difficulties making the regular payments 
towards his credit card throughout 2019. Lloyds has sent us Mr Js statements from October 
2018 onwards, and I see a number of returned direct debits. This meant Mr J didnt make 
payments towards the account in January, February, March, June, July or August 2019. 
On 29 August 2019, Lloyds sent Mr J a default notice. This said he needed to repay his 
arrears of £54.69 by 15 September 2019  or contact it to agree a suitable way forward. It 
said that if it didnt receive payment before 15 September 2019, it would end the agreement 
and demand immediate repayment of the account.
I note that Mr J then, on 16 September 2019, paid £850 to the credit card account. This left a 
balance of £4.59 on the account.
Mr J then didnt make payments to the account in October, November, December, January 
2020 or February 2020. At the end of October, Lloyds wrote to Mr J to ask him to make the 
payment due of £4.59. In January 2020, Lloyds wrote to Mr J saying that this full arrears of 
£30.99 were now due for payment  and that he should call it if he couldnt pay the arrears. 
But it said that if it didnt receive payment of the arrears or agree a repayment plan it would 
end the agreement and demand full repayment of the debt. The letter also said that it might 
register a default with the credit reference agencies. 
I see Januarys statement also included a notice that Mr Js account was very seriously 
overdue and that if he failed to pay the arrears immediately Lloyds would require Mr J to 
repay the full balance. 
Lloyds wrote to Mr J again on 27 February 2020. It said that it had now terminated his credit 
agreement and withdrawn his credit card. It again said that unless Mr M repaid the debt or 
called it to arrange a repayment arrangement it would register a default with the credit 
reference agency.
The statements for February and March said that Lloyds had passed the matter to its 
collections team, and that if Mr J wasnt able to make the payment on his statement he 
should contact it immediately. The statements also mentioned that Mr J hadnt made the 
minimum payments, that this can mean that hed broken the terms of the credit agreement 
and could result in Lloyds taking legal action against him.
Lloyds sent its latest statement to Mr J on 19 April 2020. Then, on 23 April, Lloyds wrote to 
Mr J saying the credit agreement had now ended  and that it would now register a default 
with the credit reference agencies. 
I note that all the letters were addressed to Mr J at his usual address  and on balance I 
think its likely he received them.
Based on all the above, Im satisfied that Mr J knew he was in arrears and that Lloyds 
proposed to register a default against him if he didnt repay the balance in full or agree a 
repayment plan. I note that Mr J repaid most of his balance in September after he received 
the original default notice. But by February 2020 Mr J was again five months in arrears, and 
Lloyds had written to Mr J a number of times asking him to contact it and explaining what 
would happen if he didnt  including the possibility of a default. By April, Mr J was 7 months 
in arrears, and had missed payments in 10 out of the previous 12 months. In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to end the agreement and register 
a default.
Ive considered Mr Js further comments. First, he says it was unreasonable for Lloyds to 
register a default given its latest statement gave him until 14 May to make a minimum 
repayment to the account. He says he fully intended to repay the balance in full. 
But I dont find this persuasive. Lloyds had repeatedly asked Mr J to get in touch to discuss a 
repayment arrangement, but Mr J hadnt contacted it. He hadnt made the minimum 
repayments in any of the previous 7 months. And I note that even now, he hasnt repaid the 
debt. It seems that it was only after Lloyds wrote to him in April informing him it had now 
registered the default that he approached Lloyds to try to discuss matters.
Finally, Mr J says hes unhappy that Lloyds sent its final response to this complaint to the 
wrong address. Ive looked at this, and agree the address was wrong  though Mr J appears 
to nevertheless have received it. But the rest of the correspondence Ive seen was 
addressed correctly  so this doesnt alter my conclusions.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman