DRN-1341582
 
The complaint
 Mr P complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened 
Between February and August 2015 Sunny provided Mr P with 9 instalment loans. When 
they were arranged, all these loans were originally due to be repaid by six monthly 
repayments. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
LoanDate
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount*Highest 
Combined 
Repayment
114/02/2015 27/02/2015 6 £150.00 £44.67
224/03/2015 30/04/2015 6 £100.00 £33.36
312/05/2015 30/06/2015 6 £150.00 £46.05
417/05/2015 29/05/2015 6 £100.00 £75.67
515/06/2015 29/02/2016 6 £300.00 £136.22
614/07/2015 15/07/2015 6 £50.00 £105.37
718/07/2015 28/08/2015 6 £150.00 £134.48
813/08/2015 28/08/2015 6 £100.00 £164.89
929/08/2015 29/01/2016 6 £200.00 £156.84
 
*this is the highest total monthly repayment required including where loans overlap
Mr P feels that Sunny failed to carry out effective affordability assessments because had it 
done so, he feels that Sunny would not have provided these loans to him.  Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ps complaint. He didnt think hed seen enough to say that 
loans 1-4 shouldnt have been lent. But he felt that by loan 5, proportionate checks would 
most likely have shown Mr P was having problems managing his money. And by loan 6, he 
said Mr Ps overall pattern of borrowing suggested he had become persistently reliant on 
short-term loans. So our adjudicator said Sunny shouldnt have provided loan 5, or any 
further loans, and he set out what he thought Sunny should do to put things right for Mr P. 
Sunny didnt agree with everything our adjudicator said but it accepted it may have been 
prudent to have done things differently after the sixth loan. So Sunny offered to uphold the 
complaint from loan 7 onwards.
We passed this offer on to Mr P but he told us he agrees with our adjudicators view. 
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr P could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr P. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month. And Sunny also 
carried out some credit checks. 
I agree with the adjudicator that, looking at the information Mr P told Sunny about his income 
and outgoings and what Sunny had recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for 
Sunny to give him loans 1-4. These loans all looked comfortably affordable for Mr P, based 
on what hed said to Sunny about his finances - even taking into account the combined 
monthly repayments when loans overlapped. 
It was early in the lending relationship and so I think the checks it did were enough for Sunny 
to agree to lend. As Mr P hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in 
relation to these first four loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 5. 
Although the loan looked comfortably affordable on the figures Mr P gave (even on top of 
paying loan 3 at the same time), Sunny could see that Mr P had by then established a record 
of taking out new loans soon after early repayment of  a previous loan. Sunny shouldve 
realised this suggested he wasnt managing his finances in a well planned way and that his 
borrowing record looked to be at odds with what hed told Sunny about his financial situation. 
I think his borrowing history shouldve prompted Sunny to carry out more thorough checks 
into his financial situation before agreeing to lend further.  
Ive taken into account that Sunny told us that when Mr P applied for all of his loans it 
enquired about his income and all expenses, including any short-term lending commitments. 
But I dont think just asking Mr P about his other short term lending was sufficient by this 
stage.
I think at this point Sunny shouldve taken steps to verify what Mr P was saying about his 
financial circumstances. Sunny hasnt shown me it did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried 
out a proportionate check before agreeing loan 5. 
Had Sunny looked in depth at Mr Ps finances it would likely have seen that he was facing 
serious problems managing his money. I think it wouldve learnt that Mr P had multiple short 
term loans already outstanding with other lenders when he asked Sunny for loan 5. So 
Sunny wouldve seen that it was likely Mr P would be using money borrowed from Sunny to 
repay other short term loans that were due  and relying on credit from other lenders to help 
him pay his Sunny loan. 
This means I dont think it was reasonable for Sunny to think that it was likely Mr P would be 
able sustainably to repay loan 5  so it shouldnt have provided this loan. Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr P with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think by loan 6 Sunny should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt have provided 
any further loans. I say this because at this point Sunny ought to have realised:
Mr P was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. When he took out loan 6, this 
meant that Mr P had been paying Sunny loans for 6 months in a row. So I think 
Sunny shouldve realised that this record of borrowing indicated ongoing money 
problems.
 
Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr P was borrowing further 
to cover the hole repaying each previous loan was leaving in his finances rather than 
using the loans for their intended purpose of helping him manage a temporary or 
unexpected cash flow problem. 
 
Ive carefully considered everything Sunny has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. But I dont think its offer goes far enough. For the reasons Ive explained, 
I think Sunny shouldve seen that by the time Mr P took out loan 6 there were clear signs 
that he had become reliant on this sort of expensive credit. So it shouldve realised then that 
it was unfair to continue lending to him. And Sunny shouldnt have provided loan 6 or any of 
the loans that followed. 
I think that Mr P lost out when Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
 
the number of loans which Mr P borrowed was likely to have negative implications on 
Mr Ps ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans. 
 
So overall, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 through to 9. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr P towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 5-9, not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr P which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr P originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mr P the total of A plus B.
 D. Remove any adverse information from Mr Ps credit file for loan 5.
 
E. The number of loans taken from the point of loan 6 means any information recorded 
about these is adverse. So all entries about loans 6-9 should be removed from Mr Ps 
credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about loans 5-9. Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman