DRN-3713511
The complaint
Ms C complains Nationwide Building Society unfairly declined her application to remove her 
former partner from their joint mortgage and about the poor service they provided.
What happened
In 2004 Ms C and her former partner took out a capital and interest repayment mortgage 
with Nationwide Building Society that was secured over their residential property.
Ms C separated from her partner in around 2013. In June 2021 she approached Nationwide 
about removing him from the mortgage. Her application, though accepted in principle, 
couldnt go ahead then due to outstanding information Nationwide required about her      
self-employed income from HMRC. She applied again when that was available at the end of 
the year. 
Ms C was unhappy with the service she got from Nationwide up to that point. They failed to 
call in August 2021 as shed understood they would. They didnt call back when she rang in 
December 2021 to go ahead with her application. And they required more information than 
shed had to provide previously, which she felt she could have given sooner if shed known 
they needed it. 
Nationwide issued a new decision in principle in January 2022. But they declined her 
application on appeal on grounds the evidence didnt show the mortgage was affordable, 
there was no room for increased borrowing and they didnt have clear information about how 
Ms C intended to buy her former partner out of the property.
Ms C thought that was unfair and complained. Nationwide didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. 
They acknowledged theyd delayed in December 2021, apologised and paid Ms C £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset they caused. They explained why her application 
had failed on grounds of affordability. And they noted Ms C had told them she may be able 
to afford the mortgage with her new partner in the future and suggested she reapply if so. 
Since Ms Cs wasnt happy with Nationwides response, she brought her complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Ms C said shed been treated unfairly by Nationwide because: 
Shed been paying the mortgage on her own since her separation 
Nationwide hadnt explained fully how theyd calculated what was affordable for her 
and they wouldnt accept maintenance payments her former partner was making as 
part of her income 
There was substantial equity in the property so there was low risk to Nationwide in 
lending her the money
She wasnt applying for further borrowing as she wasnt planning to buy her former 
partner out of the property at the time 
The amount shed agreed to pay her former partner would be fixed when he was 
removed from the mortgage - the longer that took, the more shed pay as the value of 
the property was increasing
She wanted to be financially independent of her former partner - since she needed to 
apply for interest rate products jointly with him while he remained on the mortgage, 
shed missed out on more favourable rates over the years 
She was concerned the property could be at risk from her husbands creditors while 
he remained on the mortgage
It was discriminatory that she would have to borrow jointly with her new partner to 
afford the mortgage
Shed paid an application fee of £125; since the application wasnt accepted, she 
wanted this to be refunded; and Nationwide had agreed that should happen 
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had treated Ms C unfairly. Since she didnt agree, 
her complaints been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Cs frustration that, despite paying the mortgage herself for many 
years, Nationwide declined her application to transfer it into her sole name. And I 
acknowledge her strength of feeling about her complaint. But, as Ill explain, I dont think 
Nationwide have treated her unfairly.
Nationwide is required to follow the rules about assessing the affordability of mortgages for 
their customers set out in the Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
sourcebook (MCOB). Under those rules Nationwide could have set aside an affordability 
assessment if Ms C wasnt taking on any additional borrowing and it was in her best 
interests for the mortgage to be transferred into her sole name. But I think they had 
reasonable concerns that Ms C would need to borrow additional funds to complete a change 
of borrower (COB) application and that it wouldnt be affordable for her.
Nationwides explained that the COB application Ms C was making involved not only 
removing her former partner from the mortgage, but also removing him from the title to the 
property. Thats the usual process lenders follow. So, I dont think its unreasonable 
Nationwide should require that to happen in Ms Cs case. Even if there is currently a lot of 
equity in the property, circumstances can change. Leaving Ms Cs former husband on the 
title could make it more complicated for Nationwide if they needed to repossess the property 
for any reason in the future. And I dont think it would have addressed Ms Cs concerns the 
property could be at risk from her former husbands creditors if he still owned part of it, even 
if he had come off the mortgage.
Ms C told Nationwide she and her former partner had agreed the events that would trigger 
her paying him his share of the value of the property at mediation. She said that as part of 
that process, they would value the house and agree on a final sum. And this would be 
confirmed in a consent order. 
Ms Cs told us part of her agreement with her former partner was that shed pay him his 
share of the property value at some point in the future, but the amount shed pay would be 
based on the value of the property at the time he came off the mortgage. She felt 
Nationwides delay in agreeing to release him from the mortgage meant shed have to pay 
him more as the value of the property went up. 
Ms C referred us to a memorandum of understanding shed reached with her former partner 
in 2015 as evidence of that agreement. It set out the proportions in which the proceeds of 
sale of the property would be split between Ms C and her former partner and the events that would lead to a sale. But it wasnt a binding agreement  it was a basis for getting legal 
advice and final agreement was subject to a court order being made. And it didnt mention 
when her former partners share of the value of the property would be assessed and/or paid 
to him in the event of a COB application. 
Im not aware Nationwide saw the memorandum. Even if they had, I think it was reasonable 
for Nationwide to have had concerns that, for the COB application to go ahead, Ms C would 
need to borrow more to buy her husband out at the time. And, based on her financial 
situation, I think it was reasonable for them to conclude borrowing more wasnt affordable for 
her.
I dont think Nationwide discriminated against Ms C by suggesting she might apply jointly 
with her partner in the future. Im aware Ms C didnt want to consider that at the time for 
personal reasons. But Im satisfied Nationwides decision, and their suggestion, was 
reasonably made on grounds of affordability. 
I appreciate Ms C wishes to gain financial independence from her former partner and has felt 
unable to apply for more favourable interest rates because they remain together on the 
mortgage. Im not aware of any bar on Ms C making a joint application with her former 
partner for a rate if, on reflection, she wanted to. But if Ms C is saying Nationwide have 
unfairly declined applications shes made for interest rate products shed need to complain 
about that separately as our investigators explained. That isnt part of this complaint and I 
dont address it in this decision. 
Ive considered the service Nationwide provided in looking at Ms Cs application. I note she 
first approached Nationwide in June 2021. She couldnt go ahead until December since 
Nationwide required information about her income from HMRC which wasnt available until 
then. I dont think Nationwides failure to call her in August, whilst no doubt annoying, caused 
a delay. And I dont think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to ask for more detailed 
financial information when she was ready to go ahead with an application than they may 
have asked for previously.
Nationwide rightly apologised for failing to return Ms Cs call in early December. I think the 
payment of £100 was fair and reasonable to compensate her for the delay that occurred 
before they spoke to her at the end of that month. I think they then considered her 
application fairly, including at appeal, for the reasons Ive explained. Nationwide explained 
broadly how they reached their decision which I think was fair - I wouldnt expect them to 
provide commercially sensitive information about their lending criteria. I dont think taking the 
maintenance payments into account would have affected the outcome substantively.
Nationwide told us theyd arranged to refund the £125 application fee. If they havent done 
so, Id encourage them to pay it back without any further delay.
Ms C may find it helpful to take legal advice on how best to arrange things with her former 
partner to improve the prospects of making a successful COB application in the future. I 
understand Ms C will be disappointed. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold her 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman