DRN-3384736
The complaint
Mr J holds his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with A J Bell Management Limited 
(AJBell) and his complaint is about specific intra-day share dealing he sought to conduct, in 
the SIPP and on AJBells platform, on 31 August 2020 (the date). He was unable to conduct 
this share dealing and he says AJBell is responsible for that, and for losing an opportunity to 
make profit.
What happened
Mr J traded actively in the SIPP. On and within the date, he planned to trade off the stock 
split and market price volatility related to the US listed TSLA stock. In response to his 
attempt to buy the stock he received a platform message that said  There Is currently no 
online quote available. We offer online quotes for the US exchanges from when they open, 
normally 2:30 pm until 9 pm. Or you can place a telephone order with our dealing services 
team on 0345 373 3479 (Monday - Friday 08:00 - 17:00).
Mr J repeated his attempt a few times and received the same message. He attempted 
dealing in other US listed stocks and received the same message. He considered there was 
a platform problem and attempted to call AJBells dealing and customer services, but there 
was no response because the date was a UK Bank Holiday. He says, based on his pre-
determined and informed plans, and based on those plans broadly matching what transpired 
in the market on the day, he would have made almost £7,000 in profit from dealing in the 
TSLA stock. He complained to AJBell, and asked for compensation of no less than this 
amount (rounded up).
AJBell disputes the complaint. Its position is mainly as follows:
At the relevant time, it used UK based market makers for trading on its platform. As 
the date was a Bank Holiday its market makers were closed, so it was not in a 
position to offer trading in the TSLA stock. Furthermore, and also because it was a 
Bank Holiday, its staff were unavailable.
The alternative was to use US based market makers at higher costs to AJBell and 
higher dealing charges to its accountholders. That would potentially have made such 
trading unattractive and uneconomical for most of its accountholders, so it 
maintained its use of UK market makers only at the time, whilst also looking into and 
exploring other alternative ways of offering international trading during UK Bank 
Holidays. 
Its approach in the matter was consistent with the relevant terms of service, but it 
acknowledges that the approach could have been illustrated on its website prior to 
the date. That was not the case and, at the time, it reacted to Mr Js feedback by 
instructing the relevant team to consider amendments to its website content. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld, mainly for reasons broadly similar to the points made by AJBell. In addition, she 
noted provisions in AJBells terms that said it could alter the availability of permitted 
investments (like the TSLA stock) without notice and for reasons that included complexity 
and costs. She said this was a part of the terms agreed for Mr Js account, that AJBell was 
not obliged to offer every type of trade and that it was reasonable for it to reserve the right to 
make commercially sensible decisions in its offerings. She also noted that the terms did not 
guarantee execution of telephone-based trades (where they could not be executed online) 
and that AJBells website now makes clear that US trading is not possible on UK Bank 
Holidays.
Mr J was/is not persuaded by the investigators findings. He requested reconsideration 
and/or referral of the case to an Ombudsman. He mainly said:
AJBells terms should not be allowed to override the facts, in practice, of its day-to-
day platform service.
That service presented itself as offering  online quotes for the US exchanges from 
when they open, normally 2.30pm until 9pm. This was based on normal Wall Street 
opening hours, and there is evidence that AJBell continues to offer trading in 
permitted US stocks for the hours after its close of business for the day up to Wall 
Streets close of business for the day. In practical terms, there is no difference 
between that arrangement and the arrangement required to offer trading in US stocks 
on a UK Bank Holiday, when AJBell is also closed for business during hours in which 
Wall Street is open.
Furthermore, AJBell now communicates to its customers that trading US stocks is 
supported on UK Bank Holidays for online trades only, so this is an implicit 
concession that such an arrangement was always possible. 
The matter was referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Js key point about the practicalities of AJBells platform trading service and 
I understand the comparison he has made  which I summarised above. However, as I 
anticipate he will (or might) recognise, the thrust of his overall argument has the effect of 
steering the complaint into the territory of determining for AJBell what its operations should 
have been on the date and/or should be in general. In the absence of a legal or regulatory 
wrongdoing, and/or unfair practices, this services remit does not extend to prescribing to a 
firm how it should operate its business. As the investigator said, AJBell was/is entitled to 
reserve its position on making commercially sensible decisions in its offerings. The relevant 
terms of its service, agreed for Mr Js account, reflect this.
I do not consider that a legal or regulatory wrongdoing has been established in Mr Js 
claim(s) against AJBell  and the same applies to the idea of unfair practice. Contractually, it 
was entitled to alter its platform offerings without notice and for reasons including costs. Its 
position is that it did not offer trading in TSLA on the date because it was a UK Bank Holiday, 
so its usual UK market makers were unavailable for such an international trade and, in 
addition to a lack of staff for the same Bank Holiday reason, the alternative would have been 
the use of US market makers at extra costs. It did not consider that to be commercially 
sensible. On balance, and in the absence of evidence that this account is unreliable, I agree, 
and I am also mindful that the costs of any staff AJBell required on a Bank Holiday (perhaps 
at enhanced pay rates) to facilitate such trading would potentially have added weight to its conclusion about [the lack of] commercial sense. Its position in the matter was/is defined by 
costs related reasons and AJBells terms allowed such reasons for the altering of its 
platforms offerings without notice.
None of the above says a viable alternative or solution was impossible, and AJBell 
confirmed at the time that it was exploring such a solution and that it was hopeful one, that 
was commercially sensible, would soon be found. Mr Js argument is essentially that there 
was already a solution, because there was no real difference between the notion of 
maintaining the relevant international service during UK Bank Holidays and the reality of 
AJBell being able, on a regular daily (non-UK Bank Holiday) basis, to continue its platform 
offerings for US stocks after its close of business and up to Wall Streets close of business. 
There was a difference and AJBell has referred to it  costs. I have not seen evidence that 
its UK market makers were unavailable on regular (non-UK Bank Holiday) business days 
between AJBells close of business and Wall Streets close of business, and/or that it had to 
use US market makers in those circumstances. The implication is that it did not, on a regular 
basis, have to encounter the additional costs in using such an alternative arrangement that it 
would have had to encounter on UK Bank Holidays when its UK market makers were 
unavailable. Mr J says the platform now supports international trading online on UK Bank 
Holidays. AJBell already said, in 2020, that it was working towards finding a solution, so if 
this is now the case it means that it has found a solution it considers to be commercially 
sensible. If there is any suggestion in Mr Js point that it should have found the same 
solution earlier, or before the date, I return to what I said above about this services remit not 
extending to prescribing how a firm should operate its business (in the absence of 
legal/regulatory wrongdoing and/or unfair practices). 
I agree that it would have been helpful to have notice on AJBells website which clarified, 
prior to the date and as standard, that US stocks would not be offered for trading on UK 
Bank Holidays. AJBell took this point on board and it appears to have amended its website 
contents accordingly. For Mr Js case, I am not persuaded this makes a difference. I can 
understand he would have reasonably expected to be able to trade the TSLA stock at any 
time (within the times set out in the terms/platform) because the platform presented itself as 
being able to do that. However, in broad terms, the platform was indeed able to do that, so 
this is not quite a matter of misrepresentation. The somewhat unique aspect of the case is 
that the platform did not do so on UK Bank Holidays (only), for costs related reasons and, as 
I addressed above, that was fair. Website notice, at least, of this would have been helpful 
but, in isolation, the absence of such notice does not, and cannot reasonably, amount to a 
successful claim for Mr J or success for the compensation he seeks.
My final decision
For the reasons give above, I do not uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman