DRN-2284671
The complaint
Mr S complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited turned down his mobile 
phone claim.
What happened
I issued my provisional decison on 9 October 2020. My provisional findings were:
I disagree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy covers mobile phones owned by the named account holder or 
family members living at the same UK address. Family members includes 
children under 18, or under 23 if in full-time education.
When Mr S made the claim, he explained that his daughter had purchased and 
used the phone, though the contract was in his name. He also confirmed that 
whilst his daughter lived at home, she was aged 25.
Whilst I accept that Mr Ss daughter was the main user of the phone, as the 
contract was taken out in Mr Ss name, that means he is the owner and 
therefore liable for the phone.
I therefore disagree with Assurant General that Mr S wasnt eligible under the 
policy to claim for the loss of the phone.
 
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wished to make.
Mr S didnt have anything further to add.
Assurant General responded to say it accepts that the contract was taken out in 
Mr Ss name however, Mr S had explained that he had given the phone to his 
daughter and did not expect it to be returned. It thinks this shows that Mr Ss daughter 
owned the phone.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Mr S bought the phone for his daughter, and that she was the user of the 
phone. However, it remains the case that as the contract was in Mr Ss name, he is the legal 
owner and liable for the phone. 
I therefore remain satisfied that Mr S was eligible to claim for the loss of the phone under the 
policy terms. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant General Insurance Limited 
to deal with the claim, in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman