DRN-3282198
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC denied them a more favourable 
mortgage interest rate when they applied to switch from their old one because it failed to 
respond to their instruction.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have a residential mortgage with Barclays. In February 2020 they applied for a 
new rate, choosing a two-year fixed rate at 1.21%. They qualified for that rate because their 
loan to value was less than 60%. Barclays confirmed the rate in an offer letter dated           
24 February 2020. The rate was due to start after their existing rate expired on                    
30 April 2020.
On 21 March 2020, Mr and Mrs D sent a message to Barclays via its online messaging 
service. They asked for the rate theyd applied for to be changed to a 0.79% tracker rate 
which they noticed Barclays was offering at that time and which carried the same product fee 
as the two-year fixed rate theyd already been offered. Mr and Mrs D say they communicated 
using that method to Barclays because theyd already tried unsuccessfully to contact it by 
telephone and its webchat service. 
Barclays sent an automated response saying it would respond fully within five working days. 
Having not heard from Barclays within five working days, Mr and Mrs D tried to contact it by 
telephone again but say they waited long times, only to be cut off. But they managed to get 
through on 21 April 2020. Barclays confirmed that the rate that was pending commencement 
on 1 May 2020 was the 1.21% fixed rate and the lowest tracker rate it currently offered was 
1.24%. Mr and Mrs D asked if it had received their message of mid to late March about 
changing the rate. Barclays said it wouldnt record on its system if the chat facility was used.
Mr and Mrs D called Barclays again on 28 April 2020 and were able to be more specific 
about the rate theyd asked for in March  the 0.79% tracker. Barclays said they wouldnt 
have been able to make an application to change the rate via the channel theyd used. It 
said theyd have had to cancel the one they had and apply again. It said the only option was 
to raise a complaint or cancel and re-apply. So, Mr and Mrs D made a complaint on that call 
and wanted the rate they applied for as a resolution to their complaint.
In its final response letter dated 3 June 2020 Barclays said, although the secure message  
Mr and Mrs D sent does not constitute a rate switch application, it upheld their complaint. It 
said it should have replied to Mr and Mrs Ds message in a timely manner advising them to 
complete a rate switch application. It offered Mr and Mrs D £200 to compensate them for the 
calls theyd made, and the distress and inconvenience caused. But it said, as no rate change 
application was completed for the second rate, the rate in place will remain and cannot be 
changed to the second rate.
Dissatisfied with Barclays offer, Mr and Mrs D asked us to consider their complaint. Our 
investigator didnt think Barclays offer of £200 was a fair and reasonable resolution to        
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. She found that Barclays failed to respond to Mr and Mrs D as it 
should have and, had it done so, Mr and Mrs D would have received the tracker rate they 
wanted. So, she said Barclays should apply that rate now, back dating it to 1 May 2020.
Barclays disagreed. It said as Mr and Mrs D requested the rate on 21 March 2020  a 
Saturday  and it was withdrawn on 24 March 2020, it doesnt believe there was sufficient 
time to cancel the first rate and replace it with the new one. And its response times were 
supposed to be 48 hours to five working days. So, it didnt agree Mr and Mrs D were 
disadvantaged by it not responding to them within its timescales for doing so.
As Barclays disagreed with our investigators findings, Mr and Mrs D asked for their 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
I wrote to both parties with my provisional decision on 31 December 2021. Both parties have 
now responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision of 31 December 2021, I wrote:
Barclays has already acknowledged that it should have responded to Mr and Mrs Ds 
secure message of 21 March 2020 in a timely manner. And it offered them £200 in 
respect of the calls and the distress and inconvenience that caused. So, to decide Mr 
and Mrs Ds complaint, Ive thought about that and whether Barclays error has also 
resulted in a financial loss, given that they say their mortgage should be put onto the 
interest rate they asked for.
Barclays has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ds secure message. I can see from that 
Barclays received it on 21 March 2020. And I think Mr and Mrs Ds instructions were 
clear in that they wanted to change to the 0.79% two-year tracker mortgage product. 
They also quoted their mortgage account number and provided three telephone 
numbers, an email address and the date their current deal expired. So, Mr and Mrs D 
made it easy for Barclays to respond to their message, be that to confirm it had acted 
on their instruction or to tell them they needed to take different action.
Mr and Mrs D say they used the secure messaging service because the on-line 
application method wouldnt work due to the fact that they already had a rate switch 
pending. They say they were unable to get through to Barclays on the phone and the 
webchat service wasnt working. Barclays has acknowledged that, at that time  the 
beginning of the first covid 19 lockdown  its resources were stretched, and            
Mr and Mrs D may have experienced difficulty using its various contact methods. 
Barclays also said it cannot cancel rates via online messaging, but from what Ive 
seen, I think Mr and Mrs D did all they could under the circumstances and I dont 
think they should have been denied a rate they would otherwise have qualified for 
because of failings in Barclays systems.
Barclays has confirmed that, had it responded to Mr and Mrs Ds message, it would 
have advised them to call a specific department to go through a rate switch 
application. It has provided evidence that the rate Mr and Mrs D wanted was 
withdrawn on 23 March 2020. As 21 March 2020 was a Saturday  not considered a 
working day  and Barclays werent necessarily expected to respond to                 Mr and Mrs Ds message straight away, I dont think Mr and Mrs D would have been 
able to secure that rate.
Barclays has provided us with its matrices of products that were available up to       
23 March 2020 and those that were available from 24 March 2020. I can see from the 
matrix withdrawn on 23 March 2020 that the product Mr and Mrs D wanted was a 
tracker rate  0.69% over the bank of England base rate for two years. The lowest 
rates shown on the matrix of products introduced on 24 March 2020 were a 1.21% 
fixed rate for two years and a 0.94% tracker rate (0.84% above Bank of England 
base rate for two years).
Mr and Mrs D have told us they would have opted for the lowest rate at that time and 
thats supported by the rate they did request in their message to Barclays of            
21 March 2020. So, I think, if Barclays had responded to their message within its own 
timescales, Mr and Mrs D would have chosen the Bank of England base rate tracker 
at 0.84% above for two years. So, I think Barclays should offer to rework                 
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage account assuming the 0.84% above Bank of England base 
rate, two-year tracker product was applied to it on 1 May 2020.
Both parties have now responded, accepting my provisional decision. So, as theres nothing 
new for me to consider, Ill not alter that decision. However, I think it may help if I offer some 
additional guidance below to Barclays about what it should do, having re-worked                 
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage account. 
Putting things right
In my provisional decision, I said:
To fairly resolve Mr and Mrs Ds complaint Barclays should:
Pay Mr and Mrs D £200 to compensate them for their phone calls and for the 
distress and inconvenience caused;
Offer to rework Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage account assuming the 0.84% above 
Bank of England base rate, two-year tracker product was applied to it on 1 
May 2020. That is to put them back in the position they would have been in if 
Barclays had responded in a timely manner.
Expanding on that; in practice Barclays should give Mr and Mrs D the choice of either:
Applying the overpayments, including any additional compounded interest, to the 
outstanding mortgage balance to reduce the overall amount owed. Or,
Receiving the overpayments as a cash refund to them now, with the addition of 8% 
simple interest* calculated from the date each overpayment was made, until the date 
of settlement.
Whichever option Mr and Mrs D choose, Barclays should apply an interest rate of 0.84% 
above Bank of England base rate to their mortgage from the date of settlement to 30 April 
2022.
*Interest is at the rate of 8% a year simple. If Barclays Bank UK PLC considers that its 
required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell 
Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs D a certificate showing 
this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC and it 
should carry out my instructions as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman