DRN-2057701
The complaint
Mr H said MBNA Limited mis-sold him a monthly premium payment protection insurance 
(PPI) with a credit card in 2006.
 
What happened
MBNA didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold  because it 
thought Mr H had made the complaint too late.  
But MBNA did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
Mr Hs PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr H about the high level of commission 
and profit share hed pay  which was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Hs complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought MBNAs payment was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint.
Mr H disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. He said he 
could not see how a screen shot could prove he received an important letter in 2013.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that, 
where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint made more than six years after 
the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the complainant 
was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. This is Dispute 
Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook. And in this case MBNA hasnt agreed.  
Mr Hs complaint was made in 2019. This is more than six years after MBNA sold the policy 
to him in 2006  which is the event hes complaining about here. So the six year time limit 
expired in 2012. 
I now need to think about whether the complaint was made within three years of when Mr H 
should reasonably have been aware he had cause to complain. 
MBNA says it sent Mr H a letter in May 2013 which alerted him to the possibility something 
might have gone wrong with his policy sale. And the rules say the time limit starts from the 
date the letter was sent, not when it was received. So MBNA produced a screen shot of its 
records to show when the letter was sent to Mr H. 
Given what Mr H is complaining about, I think he should reasonably have been aware he 
had reason to complain if he got this letter. I say this because Mr H says he thought he had 
to have the PPI to get the credit card. But the letter sent in 2013 explained the policy should 
have been shown as an optional product. 
However, Mr H says he didnt get the letter  and Ive thought carefully about this. I can see 
the screen shot from MBNA shows it was sent to the right address. And I havent been told 
about any reason why it may not have been delivered (like problems with his post). So Im 
satisfied its most likely to have been delivered correctly.
Three years from the letter is 2016 which extends the six year deadline mentioned above. 
This means Mr H needed to make his complaint about the policy sale by 2016. As he didnt 
complain until 2019, his complaint is out of time under the rules I have to apply. 
I can still look into complaints made outside the time limits if Im satisfied the failure to 
comply with them was due to exceptional circumstances.
But, other than what Ive looked at above, Mr H hasnt given any reasons for the delay.
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr H with his complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
Finally, as I explained above, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was more than half what the PPI cost  because it didnt tell Mr H about this.
On the face of it, that seems likely to me to be a fair resolution to Mr Hs complaint. 
Particularly when  as our adjudicator explained and from what weve seen so far  MBNA 
has been working out payments like these correctly.
 
My final decision
Im unable to look into Mr Hs complaint about how his policy was sold, as it was made out of 
time.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman