DRN-4213858
The complaint
Mr P has complained about his car insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc in respect of how it 
handled and proposed settling a claim following an accident Mrs P had abroad where the car 
suffered further damage during repatriation. 
What happened
Mrs P had an accident in August 2022 whilst driving abroad in Europe. She had some 
difficulty getting assistance from AXA and the car was taken to a local garage. Mrs P was 
told that the European garage was awaiting authorisation from AXA and she later flew home. 
AXA decided to bring the car back to the UK for repair and it was late September 2022 by 
the time it reached an AXA approved garage. 
Further damage, in addition to the accident repairs was noted to the car. And when AXAs 
engineer considered the repair details, it was decided that the car was a total loss. An initial 
total loss settlement offer was made to Mr P. Mr P felt the decision to declare the car a total 
loss was made on incorrect details  such as the costs to repair the further damage and the 
cars mileage (recorded by the car in kilometres but referenced by AXAs engineer as miles). 
AXA reviewed the matter again. That resulted in it increasing its market value assessment 
twice (£21,500 increased to £22,500 and finally to £24,000). But it remained of the view that 
the car was a total loss. 
Mr P was unhappy about a number of issues, including that he was having to continue to 
pay the finance for his damaged car. AXA, through to and including correspondence on 
20 December 2022, provided its responses to Mr Ps concerns. It accepted there had been 
some poor communication by parts of AXA during the early stages of the claim. Along with 
other failures which had caused upset. It offered a total of £700 compensation. But AXA 
remained of the view that settling for the car as a total loss, based on a market value for it 
being £24,000 and where only accident related repairs had been taken into account by it, 
was fair and reasonable. Mr P complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our Investigator felt that AXA had acted fairly and reasonably in settling the claim as it had. 
And that AXA had responded fairly and reasonably to Mr Ps complaints, including in it 
paying £700 compensation. So she didnt think it should have to do anything more. 
Mr P was unhappy. He maintained that AXA had acted poorly. He was adamant that further, 
non-accident related damage had been taken into account by AXA when reaching its total 
loss decision. He reiterated that he wanted the car repaired, or a settlement of £27,500, 
Also, £28 a day for his vehicle hire costs incurred because he had only had a courtesy car 
for 35 days. He said he also wanted satisfactory compensation, £2,500, for the upset that 
had been caused and £500 to cover legal fees. His complaint was passed to me for an 
Ombudsmans decision.
I was minded to uphold it, directing AXA to make a further payment to Mr P. But I was 
satisfied that its decision to view the car as a total loss, and the value it attributed for that, 
was fair and reasonable. So I issued a provisional decision to explain my views to both 
parties, My provisional findings were:
Accident damage or damage in transit
There is no dispute that the car was damaged in transit. AXA accepts that happened and 
that it is responsible for it. It has also said that its total loss decision was based only on 
accident/incident damage  the damage in transit didnt affect that. Mr P doesnt agree and 
thinks AXA has overlooked or ignored that some damage on its estimate for repair of 
incident damage, which caused it to decide the car was a total loss, is more likely to have 
occurred in transit.
AXAs garage completed two repair estimates. One was essentially for paint damage, and 
came to a few thousand pounds, and if the car needed re-spraying that would increase. That 
is what AXA accepts as being the damage caused to the car whilst it was in its care on its 
way back to the UK. The other estimate was for £12,275 and that included structural work. 
AXA thinks everything in that estimate is accident related. Mr P disagrees. He thinks the car 
was evidently very badly handled in transit and that its likely that certain structural damage 
only occurred due to the way the car was handled after it left the European garage.
In support of that view Mr P has relied heavily on the content of the European garages 
estimate. It totalled just over €8,000 and didnt include everything on AXAs £12,275 
estimate. He thinks that the absence of work on the European estimate  such as any 
replacement of structural parts, means if they now need replacing, that must be because of 
further damage sustained in transit. Im not persuaded that is most likely. The European 
garage has confirmed that the estimate it created was largely based on disassembly costs, 
and that further assessment of internal parts like the steering rack (mentioned specifically by 
the European garage and AXAs engineer), would only have taken place after dismantling. 
So it isnt fair to conclude, in my view, that just because the steering rack wasnt on the 
European estimate, its most likely that it wasnt damaged in the incident. Which also means 
it cant fairly be concluded, from its absence on the European estimate, that structural 
damage most likely occurred during transit. 
Ive then considered AXAs engineers view on the estimate for £12,275. The engineer has 
considered the content of the estimate and the photos of the car. Hes clearly taken into 
account the circumstances of the incident and the agreed damage which resulted from that. 
The engineer concluded that the location of the disputed damage, along with how that 
presents in the car  for example part of the suspension having been forced through the 
internal bodywork of the car  makes it all indicative of damage which is consistent with that 
which hed expect to see from the incident. What he says seems to make sense. And Ive 
seen nothing from a similarly qualified individual in challenge of that. I think I have to mention 
here that whilst it is accepted that damage has been caused to the car in transit  no-one 
really knows what happened to it. So it would take a significant leap of logic to conclude that 
major structural damage was more likely to have occurred during an episode that nothing is 
known about, than it is to have done during an incident, the circumstances of which are 
known and where an expert has considered that alongside the damage and determined that 
the damage is consistent with the known incident. I think AXAs view that the estimate for 
£12,275 is for repairing damage subject of the insured incident is fair and reasonable. It was 
this estimate upon which it based its total loss decision.   
Total loss
AXA had decided to bring the car back to the UK on the day it was advised of the claim. That 
may well be part of its normal process  and I can understand that AXA would want to have 
an insured vehicle assessed by one of its approved garages and/or its own engineer. But here the broker interceded and asked AXA to authorise the European garage to inspect the 
car and produce an estimate. AXA did so but by 30 August 2022 an estimate for repair was 
outstanding. Based on this, Im not convinced that progressing the claim with the car via the 
European garage would have meant an overall improved claim journey. In any event, AXA 
noted that if/when an estimate was received, it would need to be in English or be sent for 
translation. It decided to revert to its original plan and bring the car back to the UK. I dont 
think that was an unreasonable decision. And from its notes I think its fair to say that, at that 
stage, it hoped the car would be repairable. However, once AXAs garage assessed the car, 
and its engineer reviewed that estimate, the prospect arose of it being a total loss (rather 
than it being repairable). There was also a complication because of the car being damaged 
in transit whilst in AXAs care.
I think AXA has, at times, given mixed messages about the transit damage. Some of its 
communication has not been clear, suggesting that the cost of the transit damage had been 
taken into account when reaching the total loss decision. I can understand why that would 
concern Mr P. And Ill take that upset into account when considering compensation. But Im 
satisfied, as Ive explained above, that AXA only took into account incident related damage 
when making its total loss decision. 
That said, it is clear to me that the initial total loss assessment was somewhat flawed. The 
photo of the cars dashboard clearly shows an odometer reading in kilometres. Yet the 
engineer completing the total loss assessment assumed the odometer reading recorded on 
the repair estimate was in miles. I can see why that assumption could be made  only the 
numbers were recorded on the estimate, no measurement, and miles are the most common 
measurement seen in the UK. But there were photos clearly showing the measurement was 
in kilometres. I think it was an avoidable error on the engineers part. And it affected the 
value determined for the car, because converting the odometer reading into miles showed 
the car hadnt travelled so far, meaning it would have a greater value. Yet the percentage of 
the value represented by the repair cost was explained to Mr P by the engineer as being the 
reason for the total loss decision (56%, based on the initial flawed valuation, which could 
easily increase to 60% or more once repairs started). I accept that the flawed valuation gave 
Mr P cause for concern about the decision to view the car as a total loss. 
AXA though revised the initial value. Albeit only upon challenge from Mr P (and his broker). 
The final value AXA set on for the car was £24,000. It reviewed an industry trade guide 
which returned a value of £22,500. This service usually finds use of guides such as this the 
most reliable way of determining the market value for a car. But Mr P remained unhappy with 
that value. A further review was undertaken and AXAs engineer decided to speak to a 
manufacturer dealer with a view to considering current, likely achievable sale prices for cars 
such as Mr Ps, with the particular package Mr P had on his car and when sold by the 
specific manufacturer dealer, as opposed to manufacturer dealers for other cars. Based on 
my knowledge of the industry guides, those are factors they might not take into account. It 
was the dealers view that a car like Mr Ps, sold in that way, was worth £24,000. So, on this 
occasion, those factors did mean the initial values generated werent reflective of the likely 
market value for Mr Ps car. I think it was reasonable for AXA to rely on the further evidence 
gathered by the engineer and that, in doing so, its fairly determined the likely market value 
for Mr Ps car. 
I know Mr P asked AXA, if it was insisting on settling the claim as one of total loss, to pay 
£27,500 as the market value for the car. This was based on sale adverts he had seen and 
copied to AXA. But Im not persuaded those adverts are compelling evidence which makes 
me think it would be fair to require AXA to increase the market value to that sum. Especially 
in light of the fact that Ive explained above why I feel its assessment of the market value as 
being £24,000 is fair and reasonable. 
 So the estimate of £12,275 was 51% of AXAs reasonably determined market value for the 
car, £24,000. I know that when the percentage was slightly higher (56%), AXA was 
concerned about it breaching 60% if further damage became apparent once the repairs 
began. I dont think the reduction of 5% based on the slightly increased market value is so 
significant it makes it unlikely the 60% limit AXA was concerned about would be breached. 
Where significant structural damage has occurred it is often the case that once repairs begin 
and a car is dismantled, further incident related damage is found which pushes up the repair 
cost. So most insurers will be reluctant to start structural repairs if the initial estimate is at or 
above 50% of the market value. An insurer though will also be keen to limit its overall claim 
outlay  and that is not an unreasonable thing for it to do. Here, once AXA had revised its 
market value settlement, it found that significant parts likely needed for repair  if it chose to 
go ahead with that  werent currently available. And there was no likely date for them to 
become available. AXA was concerned that might have meant a repair programme lasting 
several months whilst parts were waited on. That would have increased both the 
inconvenience to Mr P and the overall claim costs. I think that was a reasonable concern for 
AXA and it wasnt unreasonable for it to seek to avoid that, especially given the likelihood of 
other damage being found once repairs started, by settling the claim as one of total loss.    
I know Mr P feels that parts were only unavailable because AXA had delayed the claim. Im 
not persuaded that is the case. Im generally aware that there has been some difficulty for a 
while with availability of parts. And AXAs file here includes comment that that is being 
caused by the war in Ukraine. As AXA did not look to order parts in the early stages of the 
claim, it isnt clear whether the parts in question would have been available then. But Im 
mindful that the war in question escalated in February 2022, many months before Mr Ps car 
was damaged and the claim to AXA was made. Taking everything into account, Im not 
convinced that if delays and errors on AXAs part had been avoided; such that the 
reasonable market value for Mr Ps car of £24,000 had been applied to the claim even as 
early as September 2022, that the repair situation or the total loss outcome would likely have 
been any different.
Loss of use/car hire
I understand that Mrs P, before her return to the UK, hired another car to use. But she 
returned to the UK at the end of August. And, once home, Mr P had another car available for 
use but which wasnt always suitable for his work. Further, that for a period he paid to use a 
works van  but there came a point when this was no longer an option. I understand that 
Mr P would, therefore, like AXA to pay a sum equivalent to £28 a day to cover costs incurred 
from 1 September 2022 onwards, less costs for 35 days where he did have the benefit of a 
courtesy car.
The period during which Mr P had a courtesy car began on 6 October 2022. But this seems 
to have been arranged by/provided via Mr Ps broker. It wasnt something AXA did for Mr P. 
So Ive considered whether, under the policy, AXA should have provided a courtesy car for 
Mr P to use. 
Mr Ps policy with AXA only offers the benefit of a courtesy car when a car is undergoing 
repair. Strictly speaking, Mr Ps car was never undergoing repair. AXA thought it would be 
repairing it when it transported the car back from Europe  but the repairs never started 
because the UK assessment showed the car was a prospective total loss. And the policy 
says a courtesy car will not be provided when the car is deemed a total loss. So the policy 
did not entitle Mr P to the use of a courtesy car. 
Ive also considered though whether, given AXAs claim handling, it should reasonably have 
offered a courtesy car or if it should cover any of Mr Ps costs for staying mobile. In that 
respect Ive also thought about Mr Ps costs from the on-going finance agreement.Financial impact of poor claim handling, including delays
 
AXA was told of the incident on 15 August 2022. As I noted above, it started to arrange 
repatriation of the car that same day. However, that was then held when the broker asked for 
the European garage to be authorised. Mrs P returned to the UK on 30 August and on 
31 August the decision was made to bring the car back to the UK  it was due to arrive on 
8 September 2022. However, by 7 September 2022 the car hadnt left its European location 
as a UK delivery address had not been decided upon. It was only on 20 September that it 
arrived at AXAs garage and it was 14 October 2022 before it was fully assessed. As 
mentioned above, there were then errors with that assessment and delays occurred when 
AXA was reviewing its position too. Meaning the reasonable market value wasnt set until 
December 2022. I think that all took too long, that the whole process could have been 
managed better and, if it had been, the car could have been back in the UK and assessed, 
with a reasonable market value applied by mid-September 2022.  
Ill certainly take the frustration and inconvenience caused to Mr P as a result of this poor 
handling into account when I look at compensation. However, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable, even though AXA has handled things poorly, for me to make it pay Mr P 
anything for not having use of his own car after 15 September, or in respect of the on-going 
cost of the cars finance (interest). Simply put, even if AXA had handled the claim such that 
its total loss decision, with a reasonable market value, was put forward in 
mid-September 2022, I dont think that would have changed anything. 
In saying that Im mindful of how strongly Mr P feels about the disputed repairs and the 
market value for the car. Hes said that AXAs actions arent even vaguely acceptable. Mr P 
said to our Investigator, in response to her view issued in April 2023, that he feels the total 
loss decision should be set aside. In light of that I cant reasonably conclude that if AXA had 
made that total loss decision earlier, based on the reasonable market value, which Ive found 
was £24,000, Mr P would have accepted that and acted to allow the finance for the car to be 
settled or part settled by AXA paying the total loss settlement to it. And only in being free of 
that agreement could Mr P reasonably look to replace his car. So, I think, even if AXA had 
done what it shouldve, the finance agreement would still have continued and Mr P would still 
have been without a car. AXA failed Mr P  but I dont think its failure caused him to suffer 
any loss in these respects that, but for its failure, he would not otherwise have incurred.   
Travel and subsistence payment
When Mrs P had the accident, she asked a part of AXAs business what they were covered 
for under the policy in terms of onward travel and accommodation costs in the event they 
couldnt get to their destination as planned. They were told £500. AXA later said that was 
incorrect  the maximum sum available was £300. Mr P was understandably frustrated that 
the wrong figure had been given, and AXA accepted it had made a mistake in this respect. It 
took that into account when offering compensation for upset. But I dont think that goes far 
enough. In difficult circumstances following the accident, I dont doubt that Mrs P relied upon 
the advice given. I think, pending Mrs P showing AXA proof of her costs incurred in the days 
after the accident, before AXA clarified the correct value, AXA should reimburse those up to 
£500, less any payment (likely £300) already made. To any costs paid over and above those 
initially settled, AXA should add interest* from the date those over and above costs were 
incurred until the additional settlement is made.
Compensation
AXA has previously accepted that it made some mistakes which caused upset. Its paid a 
total of £700 compensation. Ive detailed some of the failures above, and where upset was caused. Including that Ive found above that AXA should have reached a reasonable 
settlement for the claim after about a month, meaning it delayed things by around three 
months. I think Mr P did have to go to some effort to reasonably challenge AXA on the things 
it got wrong. But Im also mindful that his broker sometimes took up that challenge. Although 
that wouldnt have mitigated the worry Mr P felt when the original and flawed market value 
figure was discussed with him  or when AXA was unclear, on several occasions, about how 
the transit damage was being considered. Overall, though, in the circumstances here, I think 
£700 is fair and reasonable compensation  its certainly the level of award Id likely have 
made if AXA hadnt offered anything at all. So Im not minded to make it pay anything more.
Legal fees
This service doesnt usually find it fair to award redress for legal fees. Ive not seen any good 
reason to make me divert from that approach here.
AXA said it was happy to accept this decision. Mr P disputed it. 
Mr Ps reply centred on the disputed structural damage. He said:
The steering rack and structural damage are separate issues.
It is not clear if the steering rack was included within AXAs garages repair estimate.
The European garage said it wasnt clear the steering rack would need replacing.
The European garage had also confirmed there was no structural damage.
The structural damage is clearly visible as soon as the bonnet is lifted.
This cannot have been missed by the European garage so must have only occurred 
during transit (after leaving the European garage).
The structural damage repairs should have been excluded from the accident damage 
claim, meaning the car would not have been a total loss.
Mr P also said that he hadnt been able to find detail showing that the parts specific to the 
repair of his car had been affected by the war in the Ukraine. He said AXAs delay in paying 
the total loss settlement had caused a delay during which time interest rates and living costs 
had increased. So he said some of his costs incurred should be paid and asked if my 
reference to interest meant AXA would have to make an additional payment regarding the 
total loss settlement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The European garage did say no structural damage was noted when it had the car. But also 
that the estimate was based on a visual inspection only. It isnt clear what inspection was 
undertaken. There are no photos, for example, of the car whilst it was being inspected by the 
European garage. And in late August, whilst the car had been with the garage for some time, 
an estimate had still not been produced  seemingly due to the workload of the garage. The 
estimate was finally produced in December 2022, several months after the car had left the 
garage and been returned to the UK. In considering the damage and the likelihood of when it 
was caused, I still think its important that AXAs engineer has considered the nature of the 
damage in question in light of the accident which occurred and has concluded that its 
consistent with what would be expected. Whilst, on the other hand, its not known if anything 
could have occurred to cause this type of damage to the car in transit. Im not persuaded 
AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably. I note that Mr P thinks the industry delays regarding parts may not have been affecting the 
specific parts necessary to repair his car. But Im mindful that there has been a widespread 
problem in this respect. I remain of the view that it is not clear that the parts would likely 
have been available straightaway if AXA had first looked to order them in September 2022. 
Regarding Mr Ps comments about delay, living costs and interest, Im not minded to revise 
my provisional findings. My point made provisionally was that if AXA had determined the 
reasonable settlement value as early as September 2022, Mr P would still not have accepted 
it. Rather hed have challenged AXAs position  meaning his loan agreement would still not 
have been paid and his situation would not have been any different. My award of interest 
was specifically regarding travel and subsistence costs.
Having reviewed everything, Mr Ps comments in reply have not changed my views on the 
complaint as set out provisionally. My provisional findings, along with my comments here, 
are now the findings of this my final decision. 
Putting things right
I require AXA to review the costs incurred for travel and subsistence, making an additional 
payment for costs incurred up to a maximum total value of £500. To any additional 
settlement, interest* should be applied from the date of any of the costs which make up that 
settlement were incurred until the settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require AXA to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman