DRN-3119849
The complaint
Ms C complains that Ageas Insurance Limited wont pay the costs of her disbursements 
following unsuccessful legal action. 
Where I refer to Ageas, this includes their agents and claims handlers. Ms C has used a 
representative to bring her complaint, but for ease of reading Ill mostly refer to Ms C and will 
ascribe the comments of the representative to her. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In 2016 Ms C made a claim on her legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy which was 
provided by Ageas. She wanted to pursue a third party following her sustaining injuries in a 
fall. The claim was initially declined but was later reconsidered following a complaint to our 
service. 
Around that time Ms C had entered into a conditional fee agreement (CFA) with a firm of 
solicitors Ill refer to as J. When the claim was accepted Ms C asked if J could act on her 
behalf under the policy. In February 2017, J signed Ageas terms of appointment. 
The claim progressed until ultimately, in 2019, Ms Cs claim was unsuccessful at court. J 
submitted a claim for the costs of certain disbursements to Ageas on Ms Cs behalf. This 
was primarily made up of various medical reports that were required to bring the claim. 
Ageas declined to make any payment. They pointed out that in personal injury claims there 
was only cover for adverse costs, not Ms Cs own costs and disbursements. 
Ms C complained and when Ageas maintained their position, the matter was referred to our 
service. One of our investigators thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary she 
didnt think Ageas had made clear enough that only adverse costs would be covered. As 
such, she recommended that Ageas accept the claim for the outstanding disbursements. 
Ageas disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
In September 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Cs representative in bringing this complaint is her solicitor, J. As part of my initial review 
of this complaint I requested some further information from J. When J didnt initially respond, 
our investigator contacted Ms C. Part of what she asked was whether she was being 
pursued by J for the costs of the disbursements which form the basis of the claim to Ageas.
Ms C said: I have heard nothing from the solicitor as they were employed on a no win no 
fee basis. The barrister on the day said there would be nothing due from myself. 
Our investigator had previously asked J if they were pursuing Ms C for the costs of the 
disbursements. Their reply at the time said: I confirm that under the terms of the Conditional 
Fee Agreement signed by my client she does have a liability to pay our expenses and 
disbursements to cover the same if the case is unsuccessful. Ive also seen a copy of the 
CFA which says that J may require Ms C to pay their disbursements if she does not have 
after the event insurance to cover these items. The wording used implies that this is 
discretionary.
Given the legal action concluded in 2019, and Ms C as of this month was unaware of having 
any outstanding liability to J, Im not persuaded that she has suffered a loss. And Ms C (not 
J) is the complainant here. I dont imagine that it is Js standard practice to not bill or invoice 
a client for a debt they are intent on pursuing for nearly two years after the case has 
concluded.
And irrespective of the underlying merits that our investigator commented on in relation to 
the clarity of the policy documents, if there is no loss to Ms C, I cant fairly ask Ageas to do 
anything further. The policy was in place for her benefit, not Js. 
As such, Im not intending to tell Ageas they need to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
Ageas responded to say they had nothing further to add. Ms C didnt respond. Now both 
sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman