DRN-3013263
The complaint
Miss S complains that TFS Loans Limited (TFS) lent to her irresponsibly and without 
carrying out proper affordability checks. She would like all the fees and charges associated 
with the loan refunded, and her credit file amended.
What happened
In March 2015 TFS approved a guarantor loan of £5,000 for Miss S, which was scheduled to 
be repaid at approximately £195 per month over a term of 60 months. The loan was 
intended to consolidate existing debt and fund a holiday. When assessing the application, 
TFS discussed Miss Ss income and expenditure with her and carried out a credit check 
before approving the lending. It also used a tool to check whether what she told it about her 
income seemed right.
It would appear that the loan was settled in 2019.
One of our investigators looked into this case and thought that TFS checks didnt go far 
enough. And that, if the checks had gone further, it would have seen that this lending wasnt 
sustainable for Miss S. So, they upheld the complaint.
TFS didnt accept that and asked for an Ombudsman to look at the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im going to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why. TFS is aware of 
its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of this lending 
decision, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I wont repeat them 
here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Miss S 
would be able to repay the borrowing applied for in a sustainable way. As set out in 
CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Miss S needed to be able to meet her financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay TFS for the loan to be considered affordable and sustainable.
Did TFS carry out proportionate checks before granting this loan?
TFS asked Miss S questions about her income and expenditure in a phone call; used a 
tool to cross check her income disclosure; and carried out a credit check when considering 
her loan application. It carried out an income and expenditure assessment (I&E), and 
assessed the loan on the basis that Miss Ss income was £1,200 per month; that her living 
expenses were around £563 per month; and that, she needed about £508 per month to 
service all her debts (£195 of that to TFS). Overall, that would have left her with around 
£130 disposable income per month.
So, its clear that TFS did gather information on Miss Ss circumstances. But I dont think I 
can conclude that it responded appropriately to what it did see.
The regulations do not prescribe the nature of the checks that lenders need to carry out  
or the sources of evidence that must be pursued. The key thing is that lenders carry out 
proportionate checks: by definition, that must mean that the checks for one customer could 
look significantly different from checks for another. Or that checks in relation to the same 
customer could vary greatly over the time, depending on the circumstances.
So the question for me is, in all the circumstances of this case, and based on what it knew, 
did TFS checks go far enough for this application to render them proportionate? The 
answer is no, for several reasons.
Firstly, the amount being borrowed was not insubstantial, and Miss S was signing up to a 
considerable loan term. That meant that she needed to be able to sustain repayments for a 
reasonably long time. This in itself should be a consideration when determining the extent 
of checks necessary.
Secondly, there were several flags on the credit search that TFS undertook which should 
have raised concerns about Miss Ss overall financial circumstances. The key flags were:
A default, admittedly registered more than four years earlier, but which still carried 
a substantial balance, having reduced by less than £1,000 over the intervening four 
years.
Three credit/store card accounts, all at their limits and with nominal payments being 
made.
An arrangement to pay on Miss Ss mortgage within the two years prior to this 
application
Thirdly, I have listened to the call in which the TFS representative completed the I&E with 
Miss S. In its rejection of the investigators uphold view, TFS highlights that it was 
entitled to rely on information provided to us by the customer to be accurate which, in 
principle I entirely accept. However, the information provided by Miss S in that I&E call was 
not probed or questioned at all by the TFS representative, who very speedily accepted 
that, for example, Miss S never spent any money on clothes or shoes; never had to buy 
household goods; and never spent any money on social activities. Given the term of the 
loan under consideration, that is wholly implausible, and fundamentally undermines the 
value of the I&E. (I would also question the amounts disclosed by Miss S as her 
contribution towards certain household bills, however, that is a secondary issue with the 
I&E.) Essentially, the conclusion that Miss S had around £130 per month in disposable 
income was obviously dubious and premised on an acceptance of unrealistic expenditure.
Taking implausible information at face value without pause does not equate to complying 
with the regulations to carry out proportionate checks. And TFS cannot use arguments 
about customer honesty to nullify its own responsibilities in assessing the affordability of 
the loan for Miss S  not the risk to itself of the borrowing being repaid.
Taking all of these circumstances together, I dont think TFS checks went far enough so 
as to be proportionate in this case. I acknowledge that none of these things in isolation 
would have been enough to immediately decline the application. But together they raise 
significant concerns of sustained financial difficulties. So extra information would have 
been necessary to truly conclude that Miss S could sustainably repay this loan over this term.
What would TFS have found had it done further checks?
When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of a more detailed 
credit check than that obtained by TFS at the time. However, there is absolutely no 
requirement on a lender to obtain any particular type of information: I accept that entirely. 
Lenders are permitted to source and rely on a range of evidence when assessing 
affordability, and so TFS could have opted to gather more information about Miss Ss 
circumstances in a range of ways. Different information might lead to a different 
conclusion, of course and where a lender chooses to rely on less stringent checks it must 
be proportionate to the circumstances of the lending and that isnt the case, as it is here, 
then that lender must accept the risk it is incurring in not assessing the lending as 
thoroughly as it should have done.
The more detailed credit check provided is just one way of me better understanding Miss 
Ss full circumstances at the time, but in the absence of anything else provided, Im happy 
to rely on it.
The more detailed credit check shows that Miss S had taken out another loan of £6,105 in 
January 2015, which came with a monthly repayment of £127 over a substantial term 
(which I calculate to be around 48 months). Even if I were to accept that Miss S had a 
disposable income of around £130 (which I dont, for reasons explained in the previous 
section) that would essentially have been wiped out by this additional loan.
Additionally, it shows that Miss S was essentially living in her overdraft at the time, which 
was regularly at or around the £850 limit. Given her income of £1,200, that is a significant 
amount of revolving credit on which she was reliant.
Overall, the evidence available to me strongly suggests that this borrowing was not 
sustainable for Miss S, and that there would have been a very high likelihood that shed 
need to borrow to meet repayments. It therefore follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss S, TFS must do the following:
refund all interest and charges applied to the loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above from the date they were paid, to 
the date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file as a result of the 
loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give 
Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2021. 
Siobhan McBrideOmbudsman