DRN-3357170
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain about British Gas Services Limited trading as British Gas (BGS) 
and service they received under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S held a home insurance policy provided by BGS. As part of this policy, BGS 
serviced Mrs S and Mr S boiler annually. Annual services were completed on Mrs S and Mr 
S boiler every year from 2009 to 2019. But in 2020, a service wasnt carried out due to the 
difficulties caused by COVID-19 and the lockdown restrictions that were imposed.
On 28 July 2021, BGS attended Mrs S and Mr S property to complete an annual service, 
which was almost two years after the last service was completed. The engineer who 
attended advised the flue collector has split, the burner seal had worn, and the PCB was 
showing a fault. So, the engineer advised the service couldnt be carried out and that theyd 
return with the necessary parts to complete a repair.
The engineer returned on 30 July but when attempting the repair, they discovered the back 
of the boiler had rusted significantly. So, they were unable to complete the repair and instead 
capped it, advising Mrs S and Mr S theyd need to purchase a new boiler. Mrs S and Mr S 
followed this advice, purchasing a new boiler for £2,829 in August. 
But Mrs S and Mr S were unhappy about this, so they raised a complaint. Mrs S and Mr S 
thought BGS shouldve checked and replaced the required parts when services were 
completed in previous years. So, they thought BGS were responsible for their need to buy a 
replacement boiler and they wanted BGS to contribute towards this.
BGS responded and paid Mrs S and Mrs S a total of £242.62 which covered the cost of the 
replacement flue collector, the missed annual service in 2020 and a refund of the policy 
cancellation fee. But they didnt offer anything more as they didnt think theyd done anything 
wrong when deciding the boiler needed to be replaced. BGS explained a leak had been 
found due to the split in the flue collector. And when this collector was removed to be 
replaced, this is when the corrosion was identified. So, they were satisfied the issue had 
been diagnosed correctly.
Mrs S and Mr S were unhappy about this and stated this was the first time a leak had been 
mentioned to them. So, they disputed BGS response and referred their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He explained he wouldnt 
have expected BGS to identify the issue in previous visits as there was nothing to suggest it 
was there before the service in July 2021. And he explained BGS had confirmed leaks of this 
nature would usually develop over the course of a few months, not years, so he was 
satisfied BGS couldnt have done anything to prevent it. 
And while he didnt dispute Mrs S and Mr S testimony that a leak wasnt mentioned by the 
attending engineer, he was satisfied that, on the balance of probability, a leak was present 
due to nature of the fault. So, he didnt think BGS had acted unfairly by deciding a 
replacement boiler was required. And as Mrs S and Mr S boiler was over 10 years old; their 
policy didnt include cover for the costs of a replacement. So, he thought the payment BGS 
had already made to Mrs S and Mr S was a fair one and he didnt think BGS needed to do 
anything more.
Mrs S and Mr S didnt agree. And they maintained there was no leak present when the 
engineer attended. So, they thought BGS had created this version of events to be able to 
recommend a new boiler was required. Mrs S and Mr S thought the corrosion found in the 
boiler couldve been sanded back as an alternative and so, they thought the cost of the 
replacement boiler had been incurred unfairly and they wanted BGS to cover the cost of this. 
As Mrs S and Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs S and Mr S. I recognise 
Mrs S and Mr S had no recent issues with the boiler before BGS attended to complete their 
annual service. And I appreciate they were told initially a repair was able to be completed. 
So, when the engineer re-attended the property and explained a new boiler would be 
required, I recognise this wouldve come as a shock. And I can understand why Mrs S and 
Mr S would question this diagnosis, considering the boiler was working and they were told a 
repair could be done. I also recognise the significant financial cost of replacing a boiler and 
how this wouldve impacted their short-term financial position.
But for me to say BGS have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied they made an 
error when diagnosing the fault and deciding a new boiler was required. Or, that they 
couldve done more to prevent this issue in previous visits. And in this situation, I dont think 
thats the case.
Ive first thought about whether BGS shouldve done more in previous visits, as this was Mrs 
S and Mr S original complaint. Ive seen a list of all BGS visits to Mrs S and Mr S annual 
services and the notes each engineer provided. And in none of these can I see that there 
were any issues identified with the flue collector, which was the main problem in 2021. So, 
Ive got no evidence to suggest there was any issue with that that BGS wouldve been able 
to identify sooner.
Mrs S and Mr S think BGS shouldve replaced the part to ensure it was in good working 
condition. But I wouldnt expect BGS to replace any part that is working correctly. And in the 
previous visits, from the evidence Ive seen I think it was. I think its also worth noting that 
there was a gap of almost two years between Mrs S and Mr S annual service in 2019 and 
the next service in 2021. As explained above, the 2020 service was unable to go ahead due 
to COVID-19 restrictions that were in place, which I think was out of BGS control. So, I think 
there was an extended period of time where faults may have developed and on the balance 
of probability, I think its reasonable for me to assume the fault with the flue collector 
happened during this time. So, I dont think BGS couldve done anything to prevent this and so, I dont think theyve acted unfairly in relation to this aspect of the complaint.
Ive then turned to Mrs S and Mr S issue concerning the diagnosis made in July 2021. Mrs S 
and Mr S say a water leak wasnt discussed with them by the attending engineer. Nor was it 
included on the engineers report. So, they dispute that a water leak was present and believe 
BGS included this to support their decision that a new boiler was needed.
Ive looked at the engineers report and I cant see a leak was mentioned. And I dont have 
any reason to dispute Mrs S and Mr S testimony that a leak wasnt mentioned to them by the 
engineer directly. So, Ive asked BGS to confirm when a leak was identified. And BGS have 
confirmed that the corrosion found on the second visit was caused due to a leak which 
wouldve resulted from the split flue collector. BGS have explained one of the purposes of 
the flue collector is to allow condensed water back into the heat exchanger. So, if there was 
a split within this, the condensed water would leak out of the collector.
Due to the time thats elapsed since the diagnosis, and the fact the boiler has been replaced, 
Mrs S and Mr S have been unable to provide a second opinion from another engineer. So, 
Ive had to think about what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I 
have available. And although I appreciate Mrs S and Mr S testimony, it is BGS who are the 
experts in the workings of a boiler. 
BGS have explained condensed water passes through a flue collector. And its not in dispute 
that there was a split in this. So, I dont think its implausible that a leak couldve been 
caused because of this.
Mrs S and Mr S have referred to the boiler over-heating. And as this condensed water was 
intended to pass through the heat exchanger to cool it down, I think this supports BGS 
testimony that a leak was present as the water leaked out of the collector rather than 
reaching the heat exchanger to cool it down. And its not in dispute that there was corrosion 
present in the boiler when the flue collector was removed. And for corrosion to occur, I again 
think its reasonable to assume there was water present to cause this. So, even though I 
dont dispute Mrs S and Mr S testimony that a leak wasnt mentioned to them by the 
attending engineer, I dont think this means there wasnt a leak present. 
On the balance of probability, from the information and explanation BGS has provided, I 
think its likely there was a leak, and this resulted in the corrosion which led to BGS 
diagnosis that a new boiler was required. So, I dont think Im able to say BGS acted unfairly 
when making this diagnosis.
And Ive seen within Mrs S and Mr S policy document it states that any boiler over the age of 
10 years old wouldnt be covered for a replacement or the associated costs. So, as I think 
BGS acted fairly when stating a new boiler was needed, and Mrs S and Mr S boiler was 
over 10 years old, I dont think BGS have a requirement to cover the costs of the 
replacement.
Despite this, I can see BGS did make an offer to Mrs S and Mr S, to account for the costs of 
the repair that couldnt be completed, the policy cancellation and the loss of an annual 
service in 2020. I think this is offer is a fair one on this occasion and its down to Mrs S and 
Mr S to decide whether they wish to accept it if it hasnt been paid already.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs S and Mr S complaint about British Gas 
Services Limited trading as British Gas.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman