DRN-2679523
The complaint
Ms D complains Phoenix Life Limited mis-sold her a qualifying unit-linked endowment plan in 
1987.
 
What happened
In December 1987, a company I will call A sold Ms D a unit linked endowment plan with a 
10-year term. Phoenix Life has since acquired company A. The policy paid out in December 
1997.
Ms Ds representative complained to Phoenix Life in 2020 that the policy was mis-sold as 
she was single, aged 21 at the time and didnt need any life cover. And that she didnt have 
any investment experience but was advised to invest directly into the stock market. Ms D 
said she suffered a financial loss as she wouldve had a better return without taking any risk.
Phoenix Life provided a final response to Ms D in September 2020 and said they didnt think 
they had done anything wrong. They said the policy was affordable and didnt consider there 
had been a financial loss when the proceeds were paid in December 1997. Phoenix Life 
added that the funds were invested in a managed funds and didnt require Ms D to be 
responsible for investment decisions. They believed the policy had met Ms Ds expectation 
in 1997 as she hadnt complained at the time.
Ms D and her representative didnt agree with the final response from Phoenix Life and 
asked our service to look into the complaint. One of our investigators looked into things for 
Ms D and thought that the policy was appropriate to meet her savings needs.
Ms D and her representative didnt agree with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman 
to decide the complaint. The complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that Ms D took out the savings plan before the introduction of the Financial 
Services Act. This means financial advice wasnt subject to the same rules as it is now. 
Instead firms giving advice had a legal obligation not to give misleading information about a 
policy. They were also required to carry out their duties with reasonable skill, care and 
diligence to ensure any recommendations made were appropriate for the needs and 
circumstances of their clients. I will therefore consider Ms Ds complaint against those 
standards. 
Its now well over 30 years since Ms D took out the plan with Phoenix Life and I wouldnt 
reasonably expect them to hold documentation about why the plan was recommended in 
1987. Phoenix Life have been unable to provide point of sale documents but did provide the 
signed application. However, I can see that when Ms D complained, Phoenix Life asked her 
to complete a questionnaire to understand what she wanted the plan for at the time. I 
consider it was reasonable for Phoenix Life to request this as there were no other point of 
sale documents available. Ms D completed the questionnaire and returned it to Phoenix Life. 
The answers on the questionnaire persuade me that Ms D wanted a plan for savings, that 
her available income at the time was £500 per month and that she did have some life cover 
available through work. Ms D added that if she hadnt bought the policy she wouldve saved 
for a property or her marriage. 
I havent seen anything that would lead me to reasonably conclude the plan Phoenix Life 
sold to Ms D was inappropriate for her circumstances at the time. I will now explain why.
With a premium of £50.00 per month against available income of £500 per month, I dont 
consider the level of premium was inappropriate. It would appear to sustainable for the 10-
years term of the plan as Ms D was working full-time in a bank when the plan started. Ive 
also noted the plan included a waiver of premium benefit should Ms D be unable to work due 
to ill health. So, Im satisfied that Phoenix Life took reasonable care to mitigate the possibility 
of Ms D having to surrender the policy before the agreed term of 10 years if she couldnt 
work.
I appreciate Ms D took out a unit-linked endowment plan and this carried with it some life 
cover, but it was only a small amount of cover. And because of her age, the cost of this life 
cover would be quite inexpensive. Having a life cover element within a 10-year plan made 
the policy a qualifying policy for tax purposes. This meant the benefits would be paid with no 
further tax for a basic rate tax payer, and this is what Ms D was at the time. Ms Ds 
representative referred me to a decision made by this service in which an ombudsman 
decided even a small charge for life cover would be a waste of money if life cover wasnt a 
specific requirement. However, Ive considered the circumstances of Ms Ds specific 
complaint and Im satisfied the provision of a small amount of life cover didnt make the plan 
inappropriate. 
Ms Ds representative also pointed me towards a decision on another similar case, but Ive 
seen that this case related to a whole of life plan, and not a 10-year savings plan. So, Im 
satisfied the circumstances on that case are significantly different to those in Ms Ds case. 
Ive seen the comments made by Ms Ds representative suggesting a Personal Equity Plan 
(PEP) wouldve been a more appropriate investment at the time. I accept it could also have 
been an appropriate option, but that doesnt mean the plan Ms D took out with Phoenix Life 
was inappropriate. Although Ive noted the additional comment from her representative that 
Ms D wouldnt have invested directly into the stock-market, I feel I should clarify that the 
investment wasnt made directly in stocks and shares but into a managed or pooled fund. Im 
satisfied that investments into this type of fund, particularly for a regular monthly investment 
over a 10-year period, doesnt make the plan inappropriate.  
Ms Ds representative also commented that Ms D couldve invested into a regular savings 
account with a bank, which I accept wouldve been appropriate at the time too. But, in 
summary, the plan sold by Phoenix Life was affordable and sustainable for the term, it had 
the premium protected should Ms D be unable to work due to ill health, and it met Ms Ds 
request for savings, so Im satisfied that it was an appropriate plan in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman