DRN-4244132
The complaint
C complains Ageas Insurance Limited didnt make all the vacant possession payments that 
were due under its rent protection insurance policy.
Where I refer to Ageas, I include their claims handlers and agents acting on their behalf.
What happened
In March 2021 C took out a rent protection insurance policy in which their client, Mr S, had 
an interest in relation to his rental property. Later that year Mr Ss tenant fell into arrears. He 
made a claim on the policy. Ageas accepted the claim in around November and made 
several missed rental payments.
The tenant was evicted in September 2022. Ageas made vacant possession payments 
under the policy for October and November. But they declined to make any payment for 
December. They said there was a breach of the policy terms since Mr S was refusing to 
accept a reasonable offer of tenancy.
Mr S was unhappy with Ageass decision. He felt tenants whod been proposed were 
unsuitable since they couldnt show theyd be able to pay 12 months rent, and he didnt want 
to accept tenants on housing benefit. The previous tenants had fallen into arrears when 
theyd started to receive housing benefit. He didnt want to be in the same position again. 
Ageas didnt uphold the complaint. They said Mr Ss refusal to accept tenants was 
unnecessarily extending the period of vacant possession, so theyd been right not to make 
the final vacant possession payment.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold it. She said, broadly, the claim wasnt covered since Mr S had turned down 
reasonable offers of tenancy. Since the complaint hasnt been resolved, its been passed to 
me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the problems Mr S had with his tenants. I can understand the possession 
proceedings against them were lengthy and stressful. And I can appreciate he was reluctant 
to take on new tenants who were in a similar financial position to the previous ones given the 
difficulties that arose. However, for reasons Ill explain, I dont uphold this complaint. 
In line with Financial Conduct Authority rules we expect insurers to consider claims promptly 
and fairly and not to decline claims unreasonably. Ill consider the complaint against that 
background. The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy.
The policy allowed a claim to be made for unpaid rent, up to the policy limit, where Mr Ss 
tenant had defaulted, subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions set out in the policy. 
Under condition 1 of the rent recovery cover, the policy paid rent arrears for up to 15 months 
or until vacant possession of the property had been obtained. Once the property was empty, 
section 2 applied. Vacant possession of the property was obtained in September 2022. So, 
section 2 came into operation then. 
Section 2 provided cover for up to three months rent subject to certain conditions. They 
included, at paragraph c, that C must recommend to the Landlord [Mr S] to accept any 
reasonable offer of Tenancy, which is in excess of 85% of the preceding Rent, unless such 
offer is made by, or includes any person against whom action has been taken via a claim 
under this, or the previous Period of Cover.
Ageas made payments for October and November 2022. But they didnt pay in December. 
Mr S told Ageas that the tenants whod been proposed hadnt shown they could meet 12 
months of rental payments and he wasnt accepting tenants on housing benefit. 
Ageas later spoke to C who said the property had been put up for sale in September 2022 
and sold in January 2023. C said it had discussed with Mr S a proposal under which an 
insurance company would make the rental payments to house a family, whod had to move 
out of their home, while they marketed it for sale. But Mr S hadnt responded. 
I note Mr Ss point the previous tenants had been screened by Ageas and had later failed to 
pay the rent. And I can see why hed be reluctant to take on tenants without appropriate 
checks and references. Mr S was entitled to make that choice. But it didnt mean Ageas 
should have to continue to make payments under the policy. 
This was Cs policy. And from what Ive seen, C complied with the policy requirement to 
recommend reasonable offers to Mr S. The policy didnt say in terms what happened if Mr S 
didnt accept Cs recommendation. Ageas say general condition 1 b iv allowed them to 
deduct a Penalty Excess where the costs of handling increased due to any act, error or 
omission by C or Mr S. I dont think the definition of Penalty Excess is met here. But, given 
the circumstances - that Mr S wasnt considering tenants on housing benefit and could 
probably have let the property and avoided losing rent - I think its reasonable Ageas didnt 
make the December payment.
In any event, I think Ageas could have declined the claim on other grounds. The policy 
provided vacant possession cover on condition the property was made available for letting.  
And the policy excluded cover for periods when the property was being advertised for sale. 
C told Ageas it had been marketing the property for sale since September 2022. If theyd 
known the position sooner, Ageas would have been able to decline cover on grounds the 
condition that the property be made available for reletting wasnt met. And, as the property 
was being marketed for sale, the exclusion applied.
I note Mr S has said Ageas only paid 80% of the rent under the rent protection policy. Any 
concerns he has about that arent part of this complaint. C and Mr S would need to make a 
complaint to Ageas first before we could look into that. 
Bearing everything in mind, I think it was reasonable for Ageas to decline the claim. And, 
whilst I understand Mr S will be disappointed, I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman