DRN-3127941
The complaint
Miss H complains about the quality of a van she has been financing through an agreement 
with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo). 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss H, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss H acquired her van under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the van should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the van was supplied to Miss H. The van here 
was already about six years old and had completed about 83,000 miles. So, I think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be showing signs of wear and tear.
I think the brakes are items that wear over time and I dont think it unusual for a consumer to 
have to attend to worn brakes on a van that had completed such a high mileage. I think its 
likely the brakes had suffered expected wear and I dont think it would be reasonable to ask 
MotoNovo to refund the cost of the brake repairs Miss H paid.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when MotoNovo were responsible for the vans 
quality, unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Here, I am persuaded that there were faults with the alternator pulley and timing chain 
because Miss H reported a noise to the supplying dealership and because she had to 
arrange repairs only a couple of weeks after shed taken receipt of the van.
MotoNovo are upset that Miss H completed repairs before theyd been given an opportunity 
to look at the van and ascertain the extent of the repairs and whether they were responsible. 
I think there were reasons why it was reasonable for Miss H to return the van to the 
dealership. I say that because Miss H tells us shed already reported the matter to the 
supplying dealership, and she lived a long way away from that dealership and it would have 
been inconvenient to travel back there. I dont think it was reasonable to expect Miss H to 
travel that distance with a van that was experiencing problems and I dont think it was 
reasonable to expect her to wait for an investigation. The problem had occurred so close to 
the point of supply it would have been very unlikely the fault wasnt present at that time.
Ive thought about what MotoNovo would have found had they been able to investigate the 
matter further. I dont think its likely the outcome would have been any different. Miss H had 
had the van for a very short period of time. The noise was suggestive of a problem and the 
replacement of the timing belt and pulley fixed that problem. So, even if Miss H had returned 
the van I think the pulley and timing belt repair would most likely have been necessary and 
MotoNovo should therefore refund the cost.
Miss H has been inconvenienced by these matters. Shes had to take the van for repairs and 
has had to escalate her complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved 
earlier. In those circumstances I think MotoNovo should pay her £100 compensation.
Putting things right
Miss H has provided evidence of the charges she paid to have the brakes and the pulley and 
timing belt repaired. The investigator spoke to the repairing garage and they explained how 
long they spent on the repairs to the timing belt and pulley. It was the investigators view that 
the amount payable in respect of the timing belt and pulley repairs was £813 and having 
looked at the quotation provided that seems a reasonable amount to tell MotoNovo to 
reimburse.    
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell MotoNovo Finance 
Limited to:
pay Miss H £813 in respect of the repairs she has had to complete on the van and 
add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Miss H £100 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman