DRN-2935488
The complaint
Miss F complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) transferred £400 to her 
partners credit card account in error.
Miss F is represented in this complaint by her partner but for ease, Ill refer to Miss F 
throughout.
What happened
In January 2021, Miss F visited a Halifax branch to transfer £400 from her savings account 
to her current account, also held with them. However, later that day, she tried to pay a bill 
using her debit card, but the transaction declined.
The following day Miss F returned to the branch to ask where her money was. The branch 
manager advised her shed asked for the money to be paid to her partners credit card, but 
Miss F didnt agree this was the case.
Miss F says the branch manager agreed to credit £400 to her account but when they tried to 
speak to the relevant department, they were unable to get through, so instead gave Miss F 
the number to call herself. But Miss F says when she called, the advisor wouldnt speak to 
her and said theyd need to speak to the branch first, so Miss F raised a complaint.
Halifax investigated, but didnt uphold Miss Fs complaint. Halifax said the branch had 
processed Miss Fs instructions correctly and the paying-in slip, which shed signed, 
confirmed the money was to be transferred to her partners credit card. Miss F remained 
unhappy so referred her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Halifax had made an error so 
didnt uphold the complaint. Whilst shed not seen a copy of the paying-in slip, our 
investigator thought it was likely Miss F had completed the details of where the money 
shouldve been transferred to, and she felt Miss F had a responsibility to check the details 
were correct before she signed the slip. In addition, our investigator thought it was unlikely 
the cashier wouldve known Miss Fs partners credit card details had they not been provided 
by Miss F herself.
Our investigator also considered what Halifax had offered to do to try and resolve the issue. 
She felt by offering to reverse the transfer with the agreement of Miss Fs partner theyd 
acted fairly in trying to assist her, but she couldnt see Halifax had received the authorisation 
they required. 
Miss F didnt agree with our investigator. She said her partners credit card details had been 
put on the paying-in slip prior to her signing it, and that shed been told by the branch 
manager how staff couldve accessed her partners details without him being present. Miss F 
remained of the opinion Halifax should reimburse her £400 and pay her compensation for 
the anxiety and stress their error had caused her.
Our investigator considered Miss Fs comments, but her opinion didnt change. She 
explained shed since received a copy of the paying-in slip from Halifax, and whilst this did 
show the details of where the money was to be paid had been computer generated, she still 
thought it was likely Miss F had provided these details to the cashier and had signed to 
confirm they were correct. Our investigator explained she didnt think Halifax needed to do 
anything else to put things right, and she wouldnt be asking them to pay compensation.
As Miss F remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Miss F, Im not upholding 
her complaint and for much the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain why.
But first, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than has been provided, 
and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every detail to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the paying-in slip completed at the time. Its not in dispute that Miss Fs 
partners credit card details were input electronically by the cashier, or that Miss F signed to 
confirm the details were correct before the transfer completed. But Miss F says the cashier 
input the credit card number in error and that she didnt check the details before signing 
because she trusted Halifax.
Ive thought about how Miss Fs partners details most likely ended up on the paying-in slip, 
and whilst I dont doubt Miss F wanted the funds to be transferred to her current account, 
Halifax have said the system used to transfer funds wouldnt allow the cashier access to 
account details that were not Miss Fs own. So, I think its unlikely the cashier wouldve 
known the credit card details had they not been provided them.
But in any case, I do think Miss F had a responsibility to check the correct account details 
had been entered before she signed the paying-in slip. Ultimately, by signing the slip, Miss F 
confirmed the details were correct and that the transfer should go ahead. So, I dont think 
Halifax have done anything wrong and I dont think they need to do anything to put things 
right.
Miss F says the main outcome she requires is for Halifax to return the £400 to her. And I can 
see this is something Halifax agreed to do upon authorisation from her partner for them to 
remove the credit from his credit card account. Halifax have confirmed this option is still 
available to Miss F and her partner.
It follows, as Im satisfied Halifax acted on Miss Fs instructions, which she confirmed when 
signing the paying-in slip, I dont think they have an obligation to reverse the transfer, 
certainly not without the authorisation of Miss Fs partner.
However, as Miss Fs partner is also a Halifax customer, I would expect them to try and 
assist Miss F where possible. And ultimately, Im satisfied Halifax are doing this by offering 
Miss F the solution shes requesting. Should Miss F want Halifax to reverse the payment, 
she and her partner should contact Halifax directly to arrange this.
In summary, I dont think Halifax made an error and I dont require them to do anything to put 
things right.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman