DRN-2245507
The complaint
Miss H complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card 
(Argos)  continued to charge interest on her card when she went into a debt management 
plan. She would like the interest on her account frozen.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
We expect businesses to respond positively and sympathetically when consumers 
are in financial difficulty. That doesnt mean we expect them to take automatically 
take certain actions such as freezing interest or writing off outstanding balances.
Its clear that Miss H is in financial difficulty, but she is taking responsibility by 
working with a debt management company to pay off her debts. I have seen no 
evidence of Argos offering Miss H support with her financial situation.
Argos has referred to its terms and condition which allow it to charge 29.9% APR as 
Miss H is paying off slightly more than the monthly minimum payment. Whilst its 
terms and conditions may allow for this it doesnt seem be in the spirit of helping Miss 
H. And Miss H isnt asking for her debt to be written off, just for interest to be frozen 
to give her a fair chance to pay the debt off in a reasonable timescale.
I am also mindful that its the debt management company who have set the amounts 
that Miss H pays to each creditor not Miss H. It seems slightly unfair that by paying 
just over the minimum monthly payment Miss H is charged interest when if she were 
to pay less, she wouldnt be charged interest.
The amount Miss H owes is approximately £500. It seems to me disproportionate 
that for each monthly repayment of £17.53, £11 of interest is added. I think it would 
be reasonable to freeze the interest on the account whilst Miss H continues to make 
regular monthly payments and doesnt use the card to allow Miss H to pay off the 
outstanding balance 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
In full and final settlement Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card  
should freeze the interest on Miss Hs account with effect from the date of this decision 
whilst  Miss H continues to make regular monthly repayments and doesnt use her card 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman