DRN-3013249
The complaint
Ms K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has unfairly refused to waive or 
reduce an early repayment charge (ERC) on her mortgage.
What happened
Ms K has a mortgage with Halifax. In September 2020, she switched to a fixed interest rate 
product. An ERC applied if the mortgage was repaid on or before 31 January 2024.
Ms K said that we entered lockdown soon after she took the rate and that affected her 
financially. She wanted to sell her house because of that. She said shed only made one 
payment under the new fixed rate before she made the request. Ms K thinks that Halifax 
should waive or reduce the ERC. But Halifax refused to do so.
I understand that Ms K had repaid the mortgage and incurred the ERC.
The investigator didnt think that Halifax had acted unfairly. 
Ms K didnt accept what the investigator said. She made and reiterated a number of points, 
including:
She accepted Halifax did not do anything wrong.
As she had only made one payment and was unable to work because of Covid, a fair 
decision would be for Halifax to charge expenses for setting up the product and an 
amount for the payment she did make.
She had already taken a payment deferral, so wouldnt qualify for another.
She thought that people were meant to receive support during the pandemic.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms K took out the new mortgage product, she accepted the terms of the mortgage 
offer. It was set out clearly and prominently that an ERC would apply if the mortgage was 
repaid before January 2024. So Halifax was entitled to apply it as the mortgage was repaid 
before then.
The relevant rules allow mortgage lenders to apply ERCs in certain circumstances. The ERC 
must be a reasonable estimate of the cost to the lender of the mortgage being repaid early 
and can be calculated across a range of mortgages of a similar type. That reflects that there 
is a cost to lenders in offering borrowers fixed rates. That usually includes the cost of setting 
up and servicing the mortgage. But also the cost of obtaining the funds at a certain interest 
rate to lend. The costs that are incurred are intended to be recouped over the term of the 
fixed rate. 
There are also likely other costs if the mortgage is repaid early. The lender might not be able 
to lend that money at the same interest rate. And there might be costs in unwinding financial 
instruments that it uses to protect its position.
I know Ms K isnt disputing Halifaxs right to apply the ERC. I thought it was important to 
explain that it wouldnt be as straightforward as charging the expenses it had already 
incurred. As the ERC was only an estimate and as the mortgage was repaid early on the 
fixed rate it is possible that Halifaxs actual losses were more than the amount of the ERC. A 
lot of the costs are incurred at the outset. And as the mortgage had only run a short time, 
there was less time for Halifax to recover those costs.
The point of the rules is that both Halifax and Ms K have certainty about how much it will 
recover and Ms K will have to pay respectively if the mortgage is repaid at the end of the 
term. It wouldnt be fair if I were to say that Halifax could go back on that agreement and 
charge more than the stated ERC. It follows that the opposite would also apply  it wouldnt 
be fair for Ms K to pay less than she agreed to.
I accept that there will sometimes be circumstances where it isnt fair for a lender to apply an 
ERC. But I dont consider that it was unfair for Halifax to apply it here. I accept that Ms K has 
acted sensibly by selling her property and that was because she could no longer afford the 
mortgage because of the financial impact of Covid on her. However, I dont think that would 
mean that it was unfair or unreasonable for Halifax to apply the ERC in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
There were various measures in place to provide help to borrowers who were in financial 
difficulty during the pandemic. But that wouldnt necessarily mean that a lender should waive 
or reduce an ERC. For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifaxs decision not to 
waive or reduce the ERC was unfair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman