DRN-3224410
The complaint
Mr T complains about three guarantor loans provided to him by UK Credit Limited, (UKC), 
which he says were unaffordable. He also complains about the amount of interest payable 
on the loans and UKCs collections process. Mr Ts complaint has been brought to this 
service on his behalf by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to 
all actions being taken by Mr T. 
What happened
UKC agreed three guarantor loans for Mr T between July 2013 and August 2017. Loan 2 
was used to repay Loan 1 and Loan 3 was used to repay Loan 2. According to the most 
recent information Ive seen, Loan 3 hasnt been repaid. Some of the information UKC 
provided about the loans is shown in the table below. UKC objected to Loan 1 being 
investigated due to the age of the loan and Mr T has withdrawn his complaint about this 
loan. But I shall take Loan 1 into account when assessing Loans 2 and 3.
Loan 
numberStart date End date Loan amount Monthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1. 7/7/2013 11/11/2014 £3,000 £143.98 36
2. 11/11/2014 21/8/2017 £4,067 £165.85 48
3. 21/8/2017 Unpaid £5,320 £185.58 60
Mr T says that UKC didnt properly undertake affordability checks when granting him credit 
nor did it assess signs of his over indebtedness. He said that the unaffordable high cost 
loans worsened his financial situation which was already poor. He also complains that the 
loan interest is astronomical and that his loan balance never seems to go down. Mr T is also 
unhappy that when he tried to speak to UKC about the repayments, it said it would go to his 
guarantor for the money.
In its final response letter, UKC said that it conducted the necessary due diligence regarding 
the loans, with electronic checks, documents and a verbal discussion around Mr Ts financial 
commitments and his circumstances being an adequate way to access the creditworthiness 
and affordability of the loans. It said that there was no regulatory requirement to request 
bank statements to evidence Mr Ts income or outgoings. Based upon the information 
available, UKC was satisfied that it had an understanding of Mr Ts circumstances, and that 
the loans were affordable. It also didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint about the interest payable 
and the collections process.
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint about Loans 2 and 3 and recommended that Mr Ts 
complaint about Loan 3 should be upheld. She thought UKC ought to have done more to 
verify what Mr T had told it about his financial situation. She said that Mr T hadnt provided 
any evidence of his financial circumstances at the time, so she was unable to say what 
proportionate checks wouldve revealed. But she thought that UKC had enough information 
available to it to see that this loan was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. The investigator 
noted that Loan 3 was being used for debt consolidation but only a very small proportion of 
Mr Ts outstanding debt was going to be consolidated. Loan 3 wouldve extended Mr Ts four 
year lending relationship with UKC for a further five years and increased his liability to 
creditors by a further £11,134.80. Because of this, she couldnt say that this loan improved 
Mr Ts financial situation. She thought UKC could have realised that Loan 3 was likely to be 
increasing Mr Ts indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable and potentially harmful. 
With regard to the other aspects of Mr Ts complaint, the investigator didnt think that UKC 
had acted unfairly in any other way.
UKC disagreed with the investigators view. It said that based on the information from Mr Ts 
credit report and details around his financial situation, it was unnecessary to request further 
information to support Mr Ts application for Loan 3. In addition, Mr T had never missed a 
payment on Loans 1 and 2. There were no potential signs of harming Mr T in any financial 
way by granting him Loan 3. So, UKC was of the view that it had made reasonable and 
proportionate checks when concluding that Loan 3 was affordable for Mr T. UKC also 
disagreed that Loan 3 was unsustainable or harmful. The lender said that there had only 
been two late payments over 43 contractual monthly repayments. One was six days late and 
the other was two days late. Mr T only made it apparent that he was struggling financially in 
June 2019, when he told UKC that his wife was off work and that he had to cover all of the 
costs. This was some 34 months after Loan 3 had been granted and it was not something 
that UKC could foresee happening. 
In addition, upon reviewing the items of credit that Mr T had said he wanted to consolidate 
with the proceeds of Loan 3 (these were a loan with a monthly repayment of £276, UKCs 
existing loan with a monthly repayment of £165 and a payment of £1,100 to reduce a credit 
card balance, taking the minimum payment down from £85.83 to £52.83) UKC calculated 
that Mr T would be saving £288.42 on average a month. From these calculations UKC had 
no doubt that UKC would be helping Mr T improve his financial situation if hed carried out 
what he had said on the affordability assessment call with it.
Mr T acknowledged the investigators view. He was provided with UKCs comments in 
response to the view. But he hasnt provided this Service with any comments in response to 
the view or UKCs response.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. As mentioned above, Id looked into Mr Ts complaint about Loans 2 
and 3 only.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to UKC on 15 November 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id said that where information was conflicting or incomplete, Id needed to make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities, and had done this in relation to certain aspects of the 
complaint.
Id dealt with each aspect of Mr Ts complaint separately.
Irresponsible lending
Id noted that when UKC lent to Mr T in 2014 and 2017, the regulator was the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged UKC to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this meant that UKC needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to 
assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable 
manner over the lifetime of the agreements. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed  so UKC had to think about whether Mr T could 
sustainably repay his loans. In practice, this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loans wouldnt cause Mr T undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for UKC to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr T. 
In general, Id have expected a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential 
risk to the borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for 
example, Id have expected a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out 
more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a person had been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable). 
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ts case, Id considered the 
following questions:
 - Did UKC complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ts loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
 - Did UKC make fair lending decisions? 
Did UKC complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ts loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable way?
UKC gathered some information from Mr T about his income and expenses before it agreed 
the loans. It had also carried out a credit check.Loan 2
Mr T had already been making repayments to UKC on Loan 1 for 16 months when hed 
applied for Loan 2. The loan amount was £4,067. So, it was more than £1,000 higher than 
Loan 1, but the total amount payable was nearly £2,800 more. Loan 2 was also to be repaid 
over a longer period and with higher monthly repayments than the previous loan. The 
interest rate on Loan 2 was 37.96%, (43.3% APR). The loan was to be repaid over 48 
months with monthly repayments of around £165.85. If Mr T made each payment when it 
was due, hed pay £7,960.80 in total. Hed told UKC that the loan was to fund Christmas. 
UKC repaid the balance of Loan 1 from the proceeds of Loan 2 and Mr T was left with 
around £2,000. 
Id listened to a recording of the call between UKC and Mr T in which Mr T had provided the 
lender with more information about his outgoings and credit commitments. UKC had 
calculated that Mr T would have a monthly disposable income of around £550 after making 
the loan repayment each month.
Id also reviewed UKCs credit checks. It was likely aware that Mr T had borrowed another 
high cost guarantor loan the previous year for £5,000 repayable over five years which was 
still outstanding. He also had two credit card balances which were near their respective limits 
which I thought might have caused concern. There was also a utilities balance of £192 which 
UKC hadnt queried with Mr T on the call Id listened to. Altogether, Id thought the checks 
showed that Mr Ts finances might have been strained, despite his relatively large declared 
disposable income. 
I was also aware that a lenders credit checks might not reveal the full extent of a borrowers 
credit commitments. 
Id thought about UKCs checks. I was concerned that UKC appeared to have mostly relied 
on Mr Ts statement of his expenses without verifying them. CONC 5.3.1(4) said: 
If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness assessment 
required under CONC 5.2.2R (1): 
(a) The firm should take account of actual current income or expenditure and reasonably 
expected future income or expenditure (to the extent it is proportionate to do so) where it is 
reasonably foreseeable that it would differ from actual current income or expenditure over 
the anticipated repayment period of the agreement; 
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customers 
income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer; 
So, in Mr Ts circumstances, I didnt think it was reasonable for UKC to base its assessment 
on the financial information Mr T had provided about his expenses. Mr T was entering into a 
significant commitment with UKC. He would need to make monthly repayments of around 
£166 for 48 months. So, I would have expected that UKC would want to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about Mr Ts financial circumstances before 
it agreed to lend to him. I didnt think that UKCs checks went far enough. I thought it would 
have been proportionate for UKC to independently check the true state of Mr Ts finances 
before agreeing the loan. 
UKC was required to establish whether Mr T could make his loan repayments without 
experiencing adverse consequences and not just to ascertain whether the loan repayments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. It could have done this 
by, for example, requesting bank statements from Mr T, asking for copies of payslips, bills 
and/or receipts for his expenses and by asking him for more information about his existing 
credit commitments. UKC didnt say that it took steps to do this. So overall, I didnt think the 
checks UKC had carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate. 
But although I couldnt say that the checks UKC had made before agreeing the loan were 
sufficient, that in itself didnt mean that Mr Ts complaint should succeed. I also needed to be 
persuaded that what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown UKC that 
Mr T couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. 
Loan 3
Mr T had been indebted to UKC for almost four years when hed applied for Loan 3. The 
loan amount of £5,320 was around £1,250 higher than Mr Ts previous loan and his monthly 
repayments had increased by around £20. The monthly repayments were to be made over 
60 months. UKC used the Loan 3 proceeds to repay the balance on Loan 2, leaving Mr T 
with £3,012.44 which hed told UKC would be used to repay one of his existing loans, his 
overdraft and £1,100 from a credit card balance.  UKC told Mr T that if he didnt repay these 
items, it wouldnt give him another loan.
Id noted that the interest rate on Loan 3 was 34.05%, (39.9% APR). And if Mr T made each 
payment when it was due, hed pay £11,134.80 in total.
Id reviewed UKCs credit checks. UKC was aware from these that Mr T had taken out a 
£7,000 loan in February 2015 (which Id noted was a high cost credit loan and to be repaid 
from the proceeds of Loan 3), another loan in July 2016 with a current balance of £4,523 and 
a five year term, and a third credit card in December 2016. Hed also taken out a hire 
purchase loan of more than £30,000 in November 2016 to acquire a car for his wife. 
Although the credit checks didnt show that Mr T had an overdraft, hed told UKC that he was 
using part of Loan 3 to repay his overdraft which had arisen in the past six to seven months. 
Mr T told UKC that his monthly income was £2,333 and his regular expenses were around 
£180. Hed said that his wife paid for the majority of the household expenses. Id thought 
UKC ought again to have been concerned about Mr Ts increasing need to borrow high cost 
credit despite his apparently low living costs and his relatively high disposable income. And 
whilst he was consolidating some of his debt, he was substantially increasing his overall 
indebtedness by taking out Loan 3.
Bearing in mind that this loan was to be repaid over five years Id again thought UKC ought 
to have done more to verify what Mr T had told it about his finances in order to reasonably 
check that he would be able to meet his repayments without being caused undue difficulty or 
adverse consequences. 
So, I didnt think that the checks that UKC carried out before agreeing to the loan were 
reasonable and proportionate.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? And did UKC make a fair 
lending decision? 
Loan 2
Id seen a list of Mr Ts banking transactions from around the time of Loan 2. Id reviewed 
these to give me the best picture of what the lender should have seen, although I wasnt 
suggesting that these were the checks that UKC should have done. The transactions didnt show all the payees for Mr Ts spending, but it was clear that his 
expenditure exceeded his monthly income and that hed received six payments totalling 
£740 to supplement his income. He was also repaying two payday loans. Id asked the 
investigator to ask Mr T for more information about some of his larger payments and the 
£740 hed received. Mr T said that his large payments were for childcare and the six 
payments totalling £740 were loans from his family to help with bills. On balance, I thought 
that if UKC had made additional checks, I didnt think it could be certain that Mr T would be 
able to meet his repayments sustainably over four years in view of his expenditure 
exceeding his income and his need to borrow from family to meet bills.
Loan 3
Id seen a list of Mr Ts banking transactions from around the time of Loan 3. There was 
more information around the payees in this list. I could see that Mr Ts spending on regular 
living costs and credit commitments (excluding the monthly repayment for Loan 2) exceeded 
his monthly income. This would have still been the case taking into account the debts to be 
consolidated by Loan 3. 
So, if UKC had carried out the independent view of Mr Ts circumstances that Id thought 
was needed for this loan, Id thought UKC ought reasonably to have realised that it was 
unlikely that Mr T would have been able to sustainably repay his loan. 
In addition, Id thought by the time of Loan 3, UKC ought reasonably to have realised it was 
increasing Mr Ts indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so 
shouldnt have provided further loans. I said this because:
Mr T wasnt making any inroads to the amount he owed UKC. By Loan 3 the total 
amount to be repaid was over double the total amount to be repaid for Loan 1;
Mr T had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to UKC over an 
extended period. And by taking out Loan 3, Mr T would be indebted for a further five 
years to UKC;
By Loan 3, Mr T had been borrowing from UKC for over four years without a break. 
Hed not yet managed to repay any of the loans without borrowing further from UKC 
and increasing his debt. It didnt seem to me that Mr T had managed to free himself 
of a need for credit
As Loan 3 was for 60 months, Mr T would be required to make even higher 
repayments for this period and would continue to be reliant on this expensive credit 
for an extended period, potentially keeping him in the market for higher cost loans.
So, for the reasons set out above I didnt think UKC had acted fairly when it provided     
Loans 2 and 3 to Mr T and subject to any further representations by Mr T or UKC, I intended 
to uphold this aspect of Mr Ts complaint and say that UKC should put things right as shown 
below.
High interest 
Mr T had complained about the astronomical interest payable on the loans and that his loan 
balance didnt go down.
Id noted that in its final response letter, UKC had said that Mr T confirmed during each loan 
application that he had signed the credit agreement himself, and that hed understood that 
the terms and conditions formed part of the agreement. UKC said that each credit 
agreement clearly outlined the interest charges and the total amount repayable.UKC also said that where there was an arrears balance, interest accrued daily
and was applied monthly to the loan account. If payments were not made when they fell 
contractually due, the balance of the loan remained higher which would result in an increase 
to the total amount repayable.
Id looked at the loan agreements and could see in each of them that there was wording in 
the signature box which said that the agreement should only be signed if Mr T wanted to be 
legally bound by the agreements terms. Id also noted that the agreements showed the 
interest rate, the APR, the total charge for credit, the monthly repayments and the total 
amount repayable. These were all shown on the same page as the signature box. The 
agreement form also said that interest charges were calculated daily on the outstanding 
balance of the account and that interest would continue to be charged on overdue amounts 
at the contractual rate.
As Mr T had agreed to be bound by the agreements terms when borrowing the loans, 
including the interest rates and other financial information, I wasnt persuaded that UKC had 
acted unfairly in charging the interest rate shown on the loan agreements
Mr T had also said that his loan balance hadnt gone down. Id asked the investigator to ask 
UKC for the loan account statements for Loans 2 and 3 which it provided. The loan 
statements for Loan 2 showed that Mr T had repaid £7,614.76, although the loan agreement 
showed a total of £7,960.80 to be repaid. So, I couldnt see that UKC had asked Mr T to 
repay an amount greater than the total amount to be paid under his loan agreement.  
Id also seen a loan statement for Loan 3 dated 30 September 2021. Id noted that this 
showed that Mr T had repaid £9,093.91 and there was a balance of £1,796.36 to pay. The 
loan agreement for Loan 3 showed a total amount of £11,134.80 to be paid on the loan. But I 
could see that the balance left to pay would mean a lower amount than this being paid on 
the loan. So, I couldnt see that UKC had asked Mr T to pay an amount greater than the total 
amount to pay under his loan agreement. In addition, Id noted the loan statement showed 
that his loan balance was going down. 
So, I didnt propose to uphold this aspect of Mr Ts complaint.
Collections process
Mr T complained that when hed tried to speak to UKC about his financial difficulties, it said it 
would go to his guarantor for the money, which caused him distress. He had told it that he 
was suicidal, and because of the way it responded, hed continued to have mental health 
issues.
Id noted that in its final response letter, UKC had said that it had a duty to ensure Mr Ts 
guarantor was aware of the loan account status and that it needed to make sure the 
guarantor was aware that they would be able to make a payment towards the account at any 
time to reduce the impact of the accrued interest. UKC also said that the guarantor wouldnt 
formally be asked for a payment until a final demand was served, which was when the 
account fell three contractual payments in arrears. Until this point, any payments a guarantor 
had made would be on a voluntary basis.
Id also noted that UKC had said in its final response letter that on 28 June 2019 Mr T had 
spoken to UKC and said he was seeking financial advice from a debt management 
company. Mr T had explained that due to a change in his circumstances (his wife being out 
of work), he was financially struggling. During this conversation UKC told Mr T that his 
guarantor would be looked upon to cover any shortfall seen in the monthly contractual 
payment. UKC also said that it had told Mr T that there would be forbearance options also available to the guarantor if their circumstances had changed since the loan was drawn 
down.
Id listened to a recording of the call between UKC and Mr T on 28 June 2019. Id noted that 
Mr Ts repayment was due on that day, so his payments werent yet in arrears. Mr T had 
explained to UKC that his wife wasnt working due to ill health, and that hed spoken to a 
debt management company about a token payment plan for six months until his wife was 
able to work again. Mr T also said that he wouldnt be able to afford to pay UKC very much 
through the payment plan in view of his situation. He had to support his wife and two 
children. UKC said it would need to speak to Mr Ts guarantor about the payment of the 
shortfall. Mr T said he was surprised about this as his debt management company had said 
that this wouldnt happen. Mr T said that his guarantor (his mother) wouldnt be able to pay 
and that UKC shouldnt put pressure on her as she wasnt in great nick. Mr T said that he 
was also in a poor mental state. UKC told Mr T it could apply a thirty days breathing space 
so that he wouldnt be contacted during this period, although interest would accrue. UKC 
said it could still contact Mr Ts guarantor during this period to inform her about the situation. 
Mr T said that he didnt want UKC to contact the guarantor as that would cause more 
trouble. Hed then said hed had enough and threatened to take his life. UKC suggested that 
he speak to someone if Mr T was feeling like he was feeling. But the lender then went on to 
say what it would say to the guarantor when it spoke to her, including seeking evidence of 
her circumstances. Mr T said that if UKC contacted the guarantor, hed had enough. UKC 
continued to say what it would say to the guarantor and Mr T put the phone down.
I was concerned that Mr T had made it clear during the call with UKC that contacting the 
guarantor would cause him distress, including a threat to take his own life. Nevertheless, 
UKC continued the call by saying what it would say to the guarantor when it contacted her 
and what it would ask her to do. Id thought this worsened Mr Ts distress and led to him 
putting the phone down. 
Id asked the investigator to obtain UKCs Vulnerability Policy and to ask it for 
information about the steps it had taken following the phone conversation in          
June 2019. 
Id noted that UKCs Vulnerability Policy said that in situations involving threats of 
suicide, the emergency services should be contacted and that UKC should reassure 
the customer that its primary concern was their safety, and that any financial difficulty 
could be dealt with later. Attempts should also be made to explain to the customer 
that UKC were there to help. Appendix 7 of UKCs Vulnerability Policy set out five 
main steps to follow in such situations. It suggested actions such as asking questions 
to understand the consumers current situation. Other than calling an ambulance after 
the call, I couldnt see that UKCs representative took the steps suggested by    
Appendix 7 of UKCs Vulnerability Policy during the call and I thought the lender 
handled the situation poorly.
I could see that Mr T was caused significant distress, upset and worry by UKCs 
actions and this had continued after the call. Hed told this Service I was suicidal 
after this with UK Credit, I told them this but they didnt care, all they wanted was their 
money and thats that. I continue to have depression and I feel like I have PTSD after 
this continued ordeal with UK Credit. Hed also told this Service I didnt seek advice 
about my depression as I didnt want to have this on my medical record. I continue to 
have bouts of depression which I manage by speaking to friends and my wife.
Id noted that around five hours after the call, Mr T phoned UKC and paid that 
months instalment. So, there was no longer the concern for him that the guarantor would be contacted that month. 
Altogether, I intended to say that I didnt think that UKC had acted appropriately 
during the call in June 2019 and Id thought that it should pay Mr T £300 
compensation for the distress caused to him. I didnt think Id seen enough evidence 
about Mr Ts ongoing mental health to award more. His depression was undiagnosed, 
and it also sounded like this loan was part of a wider issue with his finances. It was 
difficult to separate out the direct impact of UKCs actions in amongst all the other 
things that were having an impact.
I couldnt see in UKCs contact notes any further contact from Mr T about financial 
difficulties or any other request for forbearance. I could see that hed made his      
July 2019 payment a couple of days late, but it appeared that all further payments 
were made on time. So, Id not seen any further evidence that UKC had acted 
inappropriately after June 2019 with regard to Mr Ts financial difficulties.
Subject to any further representations by Mr T or UKC my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order UKC to put things 
right as follows. 
Putting things right  what UKC needs to do
1.Pay Mr T £300 compensation for distress;
2. I understand that Loan 2 was repaid from the proceeds of Loan 3 and that Loan 3 hasnt 
been fully repaid. In order to put Mr T back into the position he would have been had    
Loans 2 and 3 not been agreed for him, UKC needs to ensure that Mr T only repays the 
principal borrowed on these loans. In other words, Mr T shouldnt repay more than the 
combined capital amount of £9,387 he borrowed on these loans. So, UKC needs to:
a) treat all payments that Mr T has made towards Loans 2 and 3 as payments towards the 
principal amounts borrowed;
b) if Mr T has made payments above the combined capital amount of £9,387, then these 
should be refunded to him, along with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year on these 
amounts from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
c) If Mr T hasnt made payments above the capital amount of £9,387, and there is still an 
outstanding capital balance, then UKC needs to treat Mr T fairly and sympathetically in this 
matter. This might mean agreeing a mutually agreeable repayment plan with him.
d) remove any adverse information about Loan 2 from Mr Ts credit file; and
e) remove all information about Loan 3 from Mr Ts credit file once it had been settled.
If UKC has sold the outstanding debt on Loan 3 to a third party, it should buy it back if it is 
able to do so or chooses to do so and then take the steps listed above. If UKC isnt able to 
buy the debt back or chooses not to, then it should liaise with the third party to bring about 
steps 2a) to 2c) and 2e) above.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UKC to take off tax from this interest. UKC must
give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If UKC
intends to apply the refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after
deducting the tax. 
Mr T responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with it.
UKC responded to my provisional decision to say that it had no further comments to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
Given that Mr T and UKC have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part 
of the complaint and require UKC to take the steps set out above under the heading Putting 
things right - what UKC needs to do.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint 
I order UK Credit Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading Putting 
things right  what UKC needs to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman