DRN-2800289
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold them a life 
assurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 1998, when taking out a mortgage, Mr and Mrs C were sold a decreasing life assurance 
policy by a firm that Aviva has since acquired liability for. The policy was set up over a 20-
year term with an initial sum assured of £50,000 for monthly premiums of about £32.
The policy was cancelled by Mr and Mrs C in 2010.
Mr and Mrs C complained to Aviva about the sale of the policy in 2019. Aviva didnt uphold 
the complaint and said:
They werent sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy but a mortgage 
protection policy. This provided decreasing term assurance to match the capital 
outstanding on the mortgage so that it could be paid in the event of the death of a 
policyholder.
The adviser that recommended the policy wouldve described the nature of the plan 
and the benefits it provided. Mr and Mrs C were sent acceptance terms, the policy 
schedule and cancellation rights. So, they were satisfied Mr and Mrs C were made 
fully aware of the cover the policy provided and its costs  and had the option to 
cancel it if upon reflection they deemed it unsuitable for them. 
A mortgage is typically the largest financial commitment a person will undertake and 
its therefore prudent for an adviser to recommend protecting the loan to prevent the 
surviving partner being burdened with the outstanding mortgage debt. And, while Mr 
and Mrs C may have benefited from life cover through their employer at the time, its 
proceeds were not assigned to pay off the mortgage and couldve been used for 
other purposes. 
A lender may insist on certain insurances being in place before a loan is agreed. It 
would then be up to the borrower to decide whether to proceed with the mortgage. 
So, if this was the case, it wouldve been stated on the mortgage offer but Mr and 
Mrs C would have to take any concerns about the mortgage conditions up with the 
lender. 
They were satisfied the policy was appropriate for Mr and Mrs C as it protected their 
mortgage lending. 
Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint to our service. They explained they didnt need the 
policy as, with them both being civil servants, they had job security, sick pay and death-in-
service benefits. They also said they were pressurised in to taking the policy and werent 
informed that it was optional. Mr and Mrs C added that the policy wasnt explained to them 
when it was sold, as evidenced by them initially complaining about it being PPI. And that 
they only received the policy schedule, rather than full product literature, so werent given 
essential information about what was covered or how to claim. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but she didnt think Aviva had to do 
anything further. She said she couldnt be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs C 
and the adviser at the time. But she didnt think a decreasing term assurance policy was an 
unreasonable recommendation for their circumstances. Our investigator noted Mr and 
Mrs Cs employee benefits but explained that these werent guaranteed to be in place 
throughout the mortgage term  as they couldve changed jobs with no guarantee of 
receiving the same employment benefits elsewhere, or they couldve been withdrawn by 
their employer. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of Avivas response to Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, they explained that some lenders 
can require certain insurances to be taken out as a condition of lending. The mortgage offer 
from the lender did require Mr and Mrs C to take out an insurance policy (for the first five 
years of the term) but not life cover. So, the mortgage protection policy sold to Mr and Mrs C 
wasnt a condition of lending. Ive therefore considered whether the policy was a reasonable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs C or, as they claim, mis-sold. 
Mr and Mrs C say the adviser pressurised them in to setting up the policy, insisting they take 
it and didnt make them aware that it was optional. While I note their strength of feeling about 
how it was sold, given I wasnt present, I cant be sure what was discussed at the time or if 
they were pressurised in to taking it. Theres also no documentary evidence available to 
suggest undue pressure was applied by the adviser  or that indicates anything more than a 
recommendation was provided. Ive therefore considered whether the cover was appropriate 
for their circumstances.
I understand Mr and Mrs C believe they didnt need the policy as their employment provided 
job security. And, theyve explained that as civil servants, they didnt receive employee 
benefits but rather had terms of employment  which included sick pay, death in service 
cover as well as a pension (including a lump sum upon retirement). Because of this, they 
were in a strong financial position which is shown by them being able to repay their 
mortgage in 2012, six years earlier than the original term. 
Ive given this careful consideration. But, while Mr and Mrs C were in a strong financial 
position that included death in service cover, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to be 
advised to take out additional decreasing life cover. Let me explain why.
The benefits Mr and Mrs C received through their terms of employment as civil servants 
werent guaranteed to remain in place throughout the mortgage term. This is because they 
may have changed jobs, been made redundant or their employer may have offered revised 
terms of employment (affecting their non-salary benefits). Ive noted that Mr and Mrs C say 
they had no intention of changing jobs and that it was never a consideration for them. But, 
while they may not have intended to seek alternative employment when the policy was sold, 
circumstances can change and so I dont think it could be known with any certainty that it would be the case for the full mortgage term. Furthermore, although their employment may 
have been considered secure, redundancy is always a risk. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that if a redundancy were to have occurred then the pay-out they 
wouldve received, plus a salary if either of them remained in employment, wouldve allowed 
them to afford the mortgage and living expenses. While that may be true, redundancy 
provides a great deal of uncertainty in respect of future income. And so, it may not have 
been preferable for them to pay off their mortgage but rather retain the funds for living 
expenses. In any event, the advantage of taking out additional life cover wouldve meant that 
the surviving partner  if one of them were to have passed away - wouldnt have had to rely 
on the redundancy funds for the mortgage. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs C have strong views that they didnt need the cover. But, as Im sure 
theyre aware, a mortgage poses a significant financial commitment. And so, while their 
employment gave them financial security, its not unreasonable for additional cover to be 
taken out to provide further protection. Ensuring the mortgage is paid for the surviving 
partner in the event of a death is often an attractive option  with any other death benefits in 
place providing even greater financial security. It follows that I dont think decreasing life 
cover was an unreasonable recommendation for Mr and Mrs C.
On a final note, Im aware that Mr and Mrs C say they werent given product literature (only 
the policy schedule) to understand the benefits the policy provided. Theyve said this is 
demonstrated by them initially referring to PPI when making the complaint. Again, I cant be 
sure what Mr and Mrs C received when it was sold. But I think its reasonable that they 
wouldve expected to receive some product literature at the time. So, if they didnt receive 
this then I would expected Mr and Mrs C to have enquired about this  either at the time it 
was sold or a later date, such as when they contacted Aviva in 2000 to change Mrs Cs 
name (due to marriage). I cant see that this happened. 
For the above reasons, I dont think the policy was unreasonable for Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances or that it was mis-sold.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman