DRN-1633095
 
The complaint
Ms L complains that AXA France IARD ("AXA") mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
What happened 
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a storecard that Ms L took out in 1998 when 
she was in a store. The PPI covered Ms L if she couldnt work because of an accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
It's been agreed that AXA should take responsibility for the complaint. To keep things 
simple, I'll refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should be upheld, concluding that AXA 
hadnt done enough to bring the pre-existing medical condition terms to Ms Ls attention. 
And that, if it had done, she wouldnt have taken the policy.
AXA didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
Ms L's condition is usually manageable and treated with medication so would be 
unlikely to affect her lifestyle.
It's not seen any evidence to show the severity of Ms L's condition or how it affected 
her ability to work.
It's unlikely Ms L would have thought she would have needed to claim for this 
condition. And other conditions would still have been covered.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Ms Ls case. 
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the policy to Ms L, so it didnt have to make sure it was suitable for 
her. But it did have to provide her with information which was clear, fair and not misleading 
so that she could make an informed choice about the insurance she was buying. 
The terms of the policy included an exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions. Ms L 
wouldnt have been able to make a successful sickness or disability claim for:
any sickness, disease, condition or injury - 
which you knew about (or ought reasonably to have known about) during the 12 
months before the Start Date; or
for which you sought or received advice, treatment or counselling from any Doctor, 
during the 12 months immediately before the Start Date.
 
Ms L told us shed been diagnosed with a condition around 10 years before she was sold the 
policy. This condition was long term and required regular pain killing medication. This 
condition wouldnt have been covered by the policy. Ms L told us her condition means she 
was, and continues to be, in constant pain and she frequenly has to rest - often booking 
holiday from work to do so. She's regularly had time off work for her condition and sees a 
medical professional on a regular basis.
From what she's told us, I think that, when she took out the policy, she was likely to have 
anticipated that any time off work would likely be due to this condition, or something 
connected to it. I think this condition would have affected her decision to take the policy.
So I find that, had the exclusion terms been brought to her attention, its more likely than not 
that Ms L wouldnt have taken the policy. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms L in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
AXA has told us Ms L's store card account is now closed. So it needs to do the following:
A. AXA should find out how much Ms L would have owed when she closed her store 
card.
 
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms L owed when she closed she 
account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI. 
If Ms L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Ms L 
wouldve owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets 
the refund. 
 
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms L would have owed each month without PPI  Ms 
L paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest 
(at 8% a year) on the extra Ms L paid. And they should carry on paying interest until 
the point when Mrs B wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. 
 
D. AXA should tell Ms L what its done to work out A, B and C.
 If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms L that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms 
L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA France IARD should pay compensation 
as outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman