DRN-3625238
The complaint
Mr E is the executor for the late Mrs Es estate. Mr E, on behalf of the estate of Mrs E, 
complains that Quilter Mortgage Planning Limited (Quilter) failed to recommend or set up a 
suitable protection policy for the late Mrs Es mortgage.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Quilter has accepted our Investigators opinion, but Mr E and his representative         
Mr T have disagreed. They believe a quote should have been produced, at which point     
the low cost and Mrs Es inclination towards financial security wouldve led her to take out a 
policy. They dont feel that an adequate attempt at advising on the matter was made. Except 
for the life cover discussions in 2019, the facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But before proceeding, Id like to first offer my sincere condolences to Mr E for his loss and 
my sympathies for how distressing this time must be for him.
When considering a complaint, I must be impartial and decide if the evidence available 
shows the business in question has acted unreasonably. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
Im satisfied from the documentary evidence available that Quilter did discuss and 
highlight the importance of protection, but that Mrs E had asked the advisor to 
postpone the conversation for a later date. There is no evidence provided to me that 
proves a policy was taken out, or that Quilter neglected to proceed with setting up 
any protection Mrs E had confirmed she wanted.
I acknowledge Mr Ts point that a quote for life cover might have swayed               
Mrs Es decision due to the relatively low cost it would have presented. But I cant 
say Quilter has acted unreasonably when not producing quotes at the time, because 
it had been asked to postpone further discussions.
I also recognise from the information now provided by Mr E that                             
Mrs Es circumstances at the time are not truly reflected in the fact find and suitability 
report. And I have no reason to doubt the circumstances hes presented. But I can 
only expect Quilter to ask the right questions and rely on the information it was given 
at the time - I wouldnt expect it to challenge a customers answers. What was agreed 
to at the time was that Mrs E was single with no dependants and had no reason to 
believe these circumstances would change in the near term.
The suitability report suggests that the review of protection was postponed for a few 
weeks, but also states it would be postponed until the mortgage fixed rate ended in 
2024. Regardless of this inconsistency, Im satisfied that Mrs E had been given 
enough information to know that protection wasnt currently in place. And I cant say 
the entire responsibility to continue protection discussions was held by Quilter  there 
isnt evidence to suggest that either party made any further attempt to discuss 
protection further. 
Mrs E wasnt making any payments for life cover, and from the evidence available Im 
satisfied the documentation made it clear enough that she hadnt signed for any 
protection. Im also satisfied Mrs E wouldve been reasonably aware she could 
contact Quilter again if she did want to continue discussions about life cover. 
I cant reasonably conclude that her recorded circumstances wouldve been any 
different in a few weeks time if discussions had taken place. I cant also say that with 
the recorded personal circumstances at the time Quilter shouldve been more 
persistent about the importance of life cover  the suitability report shows theyd 
already highlighted its importance in previous discussions.
As I cant say that Quilter acted unreasonably, Im satisfied that it does not have to do 
anything to resolve the complaint
For these reasons, I am not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs E 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2022.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman