DRN-2785227
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the way that Union Reiseversicherung AG handled a claim 
they made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
In July 2019 Mr and Mrs P, were on holiday with their two children who Ill refer to as P1 and 
P2. They were involved in a road traffic accident in the country they were visiting, which Ill 
refer to as A. 
They received medical treatment in a hospital and were repatriated home. Mr and Mrs P are 
unhappy with the service they received from URV whilst they were abroad and that URV 
hasnt settled all of their medical bills. This has meant that debt collectors have been trying 
to recover the outstanding balance owed to the hospital.  
Mr and Mrs P complained to URV. In their final response letter URV said that they had 
arranged to repatriate the family within four days which was very quick. They acknowledged 
that there had been a mis-communication with Mrs P about anticoagulant advice and 
apologised for this. In relation to the outstanding medical bills they said that the costs had 
been inflated and that they were willing to appoint a solicitor to correspond with them. They 
offered £600 compensation for the distress and inconvenience of having been chased for the 
medical bills and £400 as an apology for the miscommunication with Mrs P. And to 
compensate for the inconvenience of having to send on any future correspondence in the 
future they offered a further £400. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs P complained to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld the complaint in part. He thought 
that URV had arranged the repatriation within a reasonable timeframe. But, he thought the 
communication could have been more effective. He acknowledged Mrs Ps concerns about 
the advice she was given about an anticoagulant injection but explained that he couldnt 
make an award for what might have happened had Mrs P gone ahead with the injection. In 
relation to the medical bills he said that URV hadnt taken into account Mr and Mrs Ps 
interests but recommended that they had a further opportunity to enter into meaningful 
negotiation in order to settle the outstanding balance. However, he thought the offer of 
£1000 compensation to acknowledge the poor service and medical bills not being settled 
was fair and reasonable. He didnt include the £400 compensation URV offered 
Mr and Mrs P in relation to future communication because he said that this suggested URV 
may not carry out meaningful negotiation with the debt collection agency and would continue 
to refuse to make payments to settle the bills. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said that 
URV have already had three years to settle the bill and that the £1000 compensation didnt 
fairly reflect the impact on them. Mrs P said that the bill should be settled in full. In summary, 
she said that URV were engaged in making false arguments and it wasnt believable that a 
world class hospital was engaged in billing fraud. Finally, Mrs P referred to other decisions 
made by our service. 
URV provided further information which they said highlighted the issues of overcharging in 
A. They said that they stood by their commitment to ensure that Mr and Mrs P wouldnt need 
to pay anything towards their treatment and to pay £400 for any ongoing distress and 
inconvenience. They also reiterated that they were happy to instruct a UK based solicitor 
and take other steps to address the outstanding balance.
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
There are two core issues which Mr and Mrs P have complained about  the service they 
received in relation to repatriation and the settlement of hospital bills. Ill address each of 
these concerns in turn. 
(1) Repatriation and medical assistance
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that URV has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. 
Mr and Mrs P were involved in an accident together with their young children. They clearly 
went through a traumatic and frightening experience. However, they were repatriated back to 
the UK within approximately five days of the accident. All four family members required 
treatment and therefore URV needed to verify cover and ensure they had sufficient medical 
evidence to confirm they could safely return home. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs P had to chase URV for information and that they felt URV didnt 
help them. But the evidence available to me demonstrates that URV werent responsible for 
causing a significant delay to the repatriation and I think a timescale of five days was 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. 
Mrs P was advised that she should arrange an anti-coagulant injection before travel. URV 
acknowledges she wasnt given clear information about this. Mrs P sought guidance from the 
treating doctor who explained she shouldnt have the injection. I appreciate Mrs P was 
worried to receive different information from the treating doctor. But, as our investigator 
explained, I can only take into account what did happen (as opposed to what might have 
happened if shed gone ahead with the injection).  
Taking into account all of the above I think the total of £400 compensation for the service 
they received is fair and reasonable. (2) The settlement of bills
Mr and Mrs P are also being chased by debt collectors for the outstanding balance of 
medical bills. Neither party disputed our investigators summary of the amounts outstanding. 
So, in summary there are four outstanding invoices: 
An invoice for Mr P for $4,601.00 - URV have made a payment of $914.74
An invoice for Mrs P for $27,246.60 - URV have made a payment of 
$3,067.09 
An invoice for P1 of $24,826.30 - URV have made a payment of $2,446.12
 
An invoice for P2 of $24,459.18 - URV have made a payment of $2,517.20. 
I understand that some payments have been made towards the medical treatment by a car 
insurance company. However, there is a total remaining balance of $64,498.33 for all 
treatment which the debt collectors are expecting to be paid by URV.
URV have advised that they will only be paying the annually published US Congress rates
plus 50% and so no further payments have been made towards the medical bills.
As a matter of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mr and Mrs P against 
losses covered by the policy as and when the amount of her losses has been established (in 
this case, the amount of Mr and Mrs Ps liability to the medical facility). That may be by 
agreement, by court judgment or by arbitration. So URV has a commercial interest in being 
able to take over the defence and settlement of such claims in Mr and Mrs Ps name.
The policy terms say URV can take over and deal with in your name the defence/settlement 
of any claim made under the policy. But Im satisfied that URV still need to act fairly and 
reasonably when exercising that term.
Legally, in situations where URVs interests conflict with Mr and Mrs Ps, URV has a 
responsibility to act in good faith when it takes over the defence or settlement of a claim - 
having regard to Mr and Mrs Ps interests as well as its own commercial interests. URV isnt 
entitled to act arbitrarily in the way it goes about declining to pay the full amount of the 
invoice. And when deciding whether - and how - to defend possible legal action against Mr 
and Mrs P, URV is required to base its decisions on the circumstances of their individual 
case.
The Principles for Businesses (Principles) are set out in the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) Handbook and URV is obliged to follow these.
Principle 6 says a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them
fairly. And Principle 8 says a firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself
and its customers and between a customer and another client.
ICOBS 8.1.1R says an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly, provide reasonable 
guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate and settle claims promptly 
once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidanceon what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require providers and 
distributors of financial services in certain circumstances to treat customers fairly. The RPPD 
makes clear that firms should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the 
customer throughout the life cycle of the service being provided.
Ive also considered what I consider having been good industry practice at the time
of the claim. Thats for insurers - and their agents - to engage diligently with medical
facilities (and their agents) to try to resolve disputes over medical bills by actively
seeking a compromise or adjudication of their bills. And this includes actively engaging in
negotiation.
Ill now explain what this means for Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. 
URV doesnt dispute that Mr and Mrs P, and their two children, didnt need treatment or 
shouldnt have been charged for it. So, I think URV has accepted liability for their treatment 
and sums properly due under the policy. 
The policy covered up to £10 million of costs for emergency medical attention. The policy 
says it will cover customary and reasonable fees or charges to be paid outside your home 
country for medical, surgical, hospital nursing home or nursing services.
URVs position is that that the amounts charged by the medical facility are inflated and
unreasonably excessive. It says its paid reasonable fees for the medical care the family 
received and its sought to rely on information from several sources in support of its position.
URV says the Congress guidelines set out the suggested rates of payment for medical
procedures and treatment (the Congress rates). And that the amounts charged by the
medical facility are considerably higher than the Congress rates for the medical care and
treatment the family received. The Congress guidelines are issued annually by the USA 
government and I understand that the Congress rates apply to certain USA residents, who 
qualify for Medicare. URV says it uses Congress rates as a benchmark when deciding 
whether the amounts charged are reasonable. It says it then pays a certain percentage 
above this, which its disclosed to our Service. Its also provided our Service with some 
examples which, it says, demonstrates evidence of inflated charges in Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
But even if I accepted that, on the face of it, the charges were lower than the Congress rates 
it doesnt mean that URV are treating Mr and Mrs P fairly. Their policy isnt a medical 
insurance policy akin to the type of policies that can be taken out in the USA to cover 
medical care and treatment for people who reside there; its a travel insurance policy. 
Further, Mr and Mrs P and their children arent USA citizens entitled to Medicare and I 
understand this information relates to those patients whose medical costs have been 
covered by Medicare. So, whilst Ive taken this information into account, Ive placed less 
weight on its contents.
Further, and in the alternative, even if the various information advanced by URV in support 
of its position do support its decision to not pay the outstanding amount, Im not satisfied 
URV has acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which its taken over the handling of Mr 
and Mrs Ps claim. Ill explain why. As set out above, the policy does allow URV taking over, and dealing with, the defence
and/or settlement of any claim made under the policy in Mr and Mrs Ps name. However, as 
Ive explained, it must do so having due regard to the law and relevant rules and regulations.
URV has a duty to deal with claims promptly and fairly, and its required to act with due skill,
care and diligence, paying due regard to Mr and Mrs Ps interests and treating them fairly. 
URV must also manage any conflicts of interest between itself and its customers fairly. I 
dont think its done that here.
I appreciate that the amount of the outstanding balance in dispute here isnt insignificant. I
can understand why URV would seek to challenge it and why its in its commercial interests
to do so. However, URV took the unilateral decision to only pay part of the invoice. It didnt
discuss its approach with Mr and Mrs P before doing so.
URV should also consider the individual issues of each specific case according to their own 
facts and having regard to the interests of the policyholder as well as its own. Between 
September 2019 and December 2020 there was a significant amount of correspondence 
from the debt collector, chasing up payment. In August 2020 URV told the debt collectors 
that they wouldnt pay anything more. The debt collector offered a discount but URV 
maintained their position to pay no more than what had already been offered. The debt 
collector continued to chase payment throughout. 
Looking at the communications between URV and the debt collectors, I dont think URVs
handling of those discussions were in line with treating Mr and Mrs P  as its customers  
fairly.
I would normally expect to see an insurer explain and justify its position by reference to the
particular items in dispute, take on board any response it receives, and advance arguments
addressed to the particular issues in dispute to try to persuade the medical facility to accept
the sum being offered, or reach a mutually acceptable compromise.
Im satisfied thats good industry practice and it didnt happen here. URV has simply stated 
and paid - a sum it says is reasonable, relying on the Congress rates which are applicable to
USA residents who have the benefit of Medicare. It then proceeded to reiterate the same
points. In doing so, it effectively, failed to engage in meaningful negotiation in the spirit of
reaching a compromise on the outstanding amount. If it had, based on the tone of the debt
collectors emails, I think its likely it wouldve brought about a prompt conclusion of the
dispute. Theres nothing to suggest that the medical facility/debt collectors wouldnt have
conducted negotiations in good faith.
Im also satisfied that URVs failure to explore meaningful negotiation in this case isnt based
on any detailed representations to the medical facility and/or the debt collectors. Nor has it
relied on any specific features of Mr and Mrs Ps claim. Its a reflection of a general policy to 
pay the medical facility a certain percentage above the Congress rates for the medical care 
and treatment Mr and Mrs P received in the USA. Thats resulted in Mr and Mrs P being 
pursued by debt collectors. And the issue of the outstanding amount is unlikely to be 
resolved until they are either sued over the outstanding amount or the healthcare provider 
stops pursuing the outstanding amount and writes it off as a bad debt.
URV has a duty to fairly manage any conflicts between its own interests and those of
Mr and Mrs P. I dont think its had due regard to Mr and Mrs Ps interests here; its 
unreasonably put its own commercial interests above their interests as someone who has 
paid for travel cover and made a proper claim under it.I think its also relevant that consumers  such as Mr and Mrs P - who take out travel 
insurance to cover medical treatment abroad dont expect to be exposed, without a very 
good reason, to continuing action from debt collectors many months after visiting an 
overseas medical facility when theyve acted in accordance with the terms of the policy and 
paid the relevant excess, as is the case here.
URV offered £600 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs P in relation to 
its handling of settling the claim so far. I think thats fair and reasonable. I accept it has been 
worrying and inconvenient for Mr and Mrs P to be left in a position where their medical bills 
havent resolved and over a significant period of time. Mr and Mrs P have the worry of the 
matter remaining unresolved. But the contact from the debt collector has been with URV and 
the debt collector hasnt sought to pressurise Mr and Mrs P to make payment. So, I think 
£600 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to them.
Ive taken into account all of Mr and Mrs Ps points in response to the investigators opinion, 
including that URV should settle the full bill. And, Ive thought about what theyve said about 
URVs wider practices, including what theyve said about fraud. Ive seen no specific or 
credible evidence that URV has been involved in fraud in the manner in which 
Mr and Mrs P have suggested. Ive carefully considered whether to direct URV to settle the 
bill in full but I remain persuaded that it is fair and reasonable to direct URV to carry out 
further, and meaningful, negotiation with the debt collector. Thats because there remains a 
significant difference between what the two parties consider to the appropriate payment. And 
I think its fairer to give URV a further opportunity to negotiate the bill rather, and to 
compensate Mr and Mrs P for the distress and inconvenience caused, rather than direct 
URV to settle the bill at this stage.  
More recently, URV says it has sought to re-engage and further negotiate with the debt 
collectors to resolve matters. Theyve also told us that they are planning to work through 
outstanding accounts. But there is still no firm timescale for resolution of the matter at this 
point in time. In addition to the compensation our investigator recommended it also says it 
will offer: 
£400 compensation for the ongoing distress and inconvenience 
UK legal representation (paid for by URV) to act between the debt collector and 
Mr and Mrs P
To pursue action against the debt collector and the medical provider if the debt 
collector continues to communicate with Mr and Mrs P despite them having legal 
representation
To obtain relevant legal advice in A. 
Having considered the overall circumstances, I havent included this offer within the 
settlement figure Im directing URV to pay. Thats because it concerns future, as opposed to 
past, conduct of the claim. So, if Mr and Mrs P wish to take up URVs offer of the £400 
compensation and the other support then theyll need to get in touch with URV directly. 
Putting things right
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant the 
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in this case is 
URV. DISP 3.7.11R provides that a direction may require the respondent, here URV, to take such 
steps in relation to the complainant as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate 
whether or not a court could order those steps to be taken. 
On balance, I dont think that the stage has yet been reach in URVs handling of this claim 
where I should direct it to pay this bill in full. I consider that it is fair and reasonable to give 
URV a further opportunity to handle the negotiation or ascertainment of the debt more 
appropriately than it has so far in order to fix and pay Mr and Mrs Ps liability. So, I intend to 
limit my award in respect of URVs mishandling of the matter, up to the present date, to 
monetary redress.  
URVs duties in relation to handling this claim dont end with my decision, because the 
matter of the outstanding bill is ongoing. The debt collector is likely to continue to seek 
payment and may start litigation to pursue this. It remains URVs responsibility to take active 
steps to resolve this outstanding matter expediently, in a manner that has due regard to Mr 
and Mrs Ps interests and treats them fairly. Id urge URV to take its continuing duties to Mr 
and Mrs P very seriously. 
As URVs duties continue, the manner in which it handles this claim going forward, may give 
Mr and Mrs P grounds for a further complaint to this Service. Any such further complaint 
would be based upon URVs conduct of the claim after the date of this decision, as opposed 
to during the period I have considered. 
I hope that this will not occur, as the intention behind my decision is to give URV another 
chance to prosecute its settlement or defence of the debts diligently. As we are a service 
which tries to resolve disputes with the minimum of formality. In my view, in light of this 
decision, Mr and Mrs P can reasonably expect URV to start taking active steps to have 
the bills settled or adjudicated as quickly as possible. If it doesnt do that, or if there are 
further failings of any other sort, URV may be at heightened risk (amongst other things) of 
receiving a direction to pay the bills in full (litigation or no litigation).
Id expect URV to ensure that, even if it takes steps such as litigation, they are proactive 
and ensure that matters dont come to a standstill or stall. But URVs future conduct would 
be a matter for a different ombudsman to decide in all the circumstances. In particular, I 
would myself expect URV to take account of Mr and Mrs Ps views on matters that affect 
them, such as how to bring the matter to a rapid conclusion; and if litigation is under way, 
as to the choice of tactics for achieving that end.
URV should also pay Mr and Mrs P £400 for the failings in the customer service they 
received whilst they were abroad. 
That means URV means should pay Mr and Mrs P a total of £1000 if they havent done so 
already.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days from the date on
which we tell it that Mr and Mrs P accept my final decision, I direct Union Reiseversicherung
AG to pay Mr and Mrs P £1000 compensation if they havent done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
Anna WilshawOmbudsman