DRN-3441440
The complaint
Mr R complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his claim for damage 
caused by an escape of water under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In October 2020 Mr R discovered damage to the floor of his summer house bathroom. A 
section of the floor had collapsed. This was thought to be the result of a leaking pipe. Mr R 
arranged for the pipe to be repaired and contacted UKI to make a claim under his policy. 
UKI sent two surveyors to inspect the damage. The first visited in January 2021 but reported 
the inspection was curtailed due to instructions from Mr Rs loss assessor. The second 
surveyor visited in February. Both provided reports that concluded there were long standing 
issues with dampness in the void beneath the summer house floor. This caused the timbers 
to decay and allowed wet and dry rot to develop. 
UKIs surveyors thought the area of floor beneath the leaking pipe had degraded more 
quickly. But this wasnt the reason for the widespread timber decay. There was a lack of 
ventilation to the sub-floor voids, a large amount of natural ground water within this area, and 
it was thought some penetrating dampness had occurred to joists abutting the masonry walls 
of the summer house.       
UKI offered a settlement payment to cover some of the repairs needed. This payment offer 
relates to the damaged bathroom. It says its policy terms exclude the inherent issues 
highlighted by its surveyors as gradual causes resulting from faulty design. 
Mr R obtained his own report from a contractor specialising in damp issues. The report says 
the problems are the result of the leaking pipe. And that no evidence of dry rot was found at 
the time of the inspection in January 2022. Recommendations were made for the joists to be 
replaced, ventilation provided to the sub-floor voids and all flooring to be replaced. The 
contractor provided a quote to complete the work it recommended. 
Mr R didnt think UKIs offer was fair. He wanted it to cover the cost of all repairs needed to 
the summer house and referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
his complaint. He thought UKIs surveyors reports were persuasive that there was long 
standing damage that wasnt linked to the leaking pipe. 
Mr R says UKIs offer doesnt cover the damage caused by the leak and raises concerns 
with its surveyors reports. He asked that an ombudsman review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I understand Mr R will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
My remit is to decide whether it was fair for UKI to offer the settlement payment it did, for the 
reasons it gave. Ive relied, in part, on the expert reports provided by both parties to decide 
whether Mr R has shown that an insured event occurred, and whether UKI has shown it 
fairly relied on a valid exclusion when not agreeing to pay the full cost of repairs. 
Mr R says damage was caused by an escape of water. The policy terms say:
Your buildings are covered for loss or damage caused by:
Water or oil escaping from fixed water or heating systems.
There is no dispute that there was a leak from a pipe from the bathroom in Mr Rs summer 
house. UKI acknowledges this was responsible for some of the damage identified. However, 
it doesnt think the escape of water is the underlying cause of the damage or the wider 
damage it identified to the summer house flooring and sub-floor timbers. 
Ive read the surveyors reports and the report from Mr Rs damp specialist contractor to 
understand their findings. 
Copied below are the relevant excerpts from the report provided by UKIs first surveyor:
the main cause of timber decay and infestation to the building overall is considered to be 
the result of the large amount of natural ground water within the floor void areas, and lack of 
any ventilation to the confined sub-floor voids. This will cause high ambient moisture levels 
within the voids, promoting timber decay and infestation to the built-in timber
floor boards and joists over time. 
Where there is visible dampness to the floor boards and joists at the junction with the 
external walls to the front, right-gable and rear elevations as noted, this may be due to some 
degree of penetrating dampness where the exposed timber floor board and joist ends 
directly butt up against the masonry, with only visible damp proof membrane to the 
underside of the joists.
The more significant wet rot timber decay and recent failure of the floor boards and joists 
directly below the ensuite shower room is considered to be the result of a fairly long-term 
escape of water from the services/sanitary fittings within the ensuite. This may be due to 
defective seals or waste outlet to the shower unit, and/or leaking pipework in the area of the 
WC and sink unit. It is not possible to confirm this where the flooring and pipework has been 
removed, and only a partial inspection was possible, due to directives from the Loss 
Assessor. It is likely that some degree of timber decay and infestation was present to the 
floor timbers below the ensuite prior to any escape of water, where general conditions are 
consistent with the main floor voids as detailed above.
Relevant excerpts from UKIs second surveyors report are set out below:
The floor to the entrance of the building when entering is very spongy suggesting 
significant failure of the floor structure. The floor had totally collapsed to the en-suite 
bathroom.
There are a number of in built issues which have in turn exacerbated the water damage.
These are;
1. No under floor ventilation2. The drainage pipe for the shower had been taken through a floor joist. The cutting of the 
joist to make room for the pipe rendered the joist structurally defective.
There are cracks present to the corners of the building. The water damage is not wholly 
directly linked to the cracking. The depth of the foundations is unknown, the cracking could 
be as a result of heave due to the saturation of the sub soil, however, there is significant 
nearby heavy vegetation including Ivy growing up the rear walls. It is unknown how well the 
corners of the building are toothed together. These are all contributory factors and the
issues and not a direct result of the escape of water.
The water and lack of under floor ventilation has manifested for some time and allowed the 
growth of dry rot mycelium along with significant wet rot and saturated floor boarding thus 
causing the collapse of the floor to the entrance and bathroom. 
The building has suffered water ingress through the roof and is now temporarily covered with 
a tarpaulin to the rear of the roof. Damage is in the form of destruction of finishes to the en-
suite including, floor coverings, low level timber work and wall finishes. The en-suite furniture 
and wall tiling will need to be removed to allow the substructure to dry out.
The floor joists, flooring and en-suite walling will require removal. Due to the presence of dry 
rot mycelium, all timber will be required to be disposed by a specialist remover.
Floor joists will need to be replaced along with the floor boarding, and associated finishes 
along with a new en-suite fit out.
In light of the findings derived from our inspection(s), the building has many inherent issues 
and it is likely there will be further issues.
Mr Rs contractor provided a report following an inspection that took place approximately one 
year after UKIs inspections. Relevant excerpts from this report are copied below:
At the time of our inspection, there was extreme movement felt underfoot to all areas of the 
floor. In some areas, the floor was unsafe to walk across due to the condition of the joists. 
Accessing the subfloor void allowed a thorough inspection of the timbers. All of the subfloor 
timbers were rotten and soft to the touch. when pressure was applied to the timbers with an 
object, the object went straight into the timber with little to no resistance. It appears the 
source of the issue was caused by a leak from one of the water pipes in the sub-floor void 
below the bathroom, this leak as now been repaired.
The moisture levels and timber damage in the sub-floor void below the bathroom were much 
greater then the remaining sub-floor area however, the leak has caused high moisture levels 
within the whole of the subfloor void. This is creating extremely high humid conditions in the 
subfloor void. These humid conditions have caused the timbers to decay and become 
structurally unsound however, no Dry Rot was found on our inspection.
I would recommend replacing all of the subfloor joists with treated joists with the ends 
wrapped with a damp proof membrane to protect them from moisture within the bricks. To 
help with the humid conditions I would recommend increasing the subfloor airbrick vents 
(See floor plan attached) to allow more airflow to the sub-floor, reducing the humidity levels 
creating a dryer environment for the timbers.
Both UKI and Mr Rs contractor agree that there is extensive damage to the joists and 
flooring. They also agree that the sub-floor ventilation is inadequate. However, Mr Rs 
contractor considers all damage relates to the escape of water, whereas UKI believes this is 
caused by longstanding issues that pre-date the leak. The first surveyor highlights large 
amounts of natural ground water in the sub-floor voids, a lack of ventilation and the presence of wet and dry rot. He says the high ambient moisture levels allowed rot to become 
established over time causing the damage. 
Mr Rs contractor reported no signs of dry rot. But, the first surveyors report includes photos 
highlighting multiple areas where dry rot is visible and is reported to have caused 
deterioration of the joists and floorboards. This is throughout the sub-floor void area, not 
limited to the area where the escape of water occurred. 
From the same report photos were included to support the damage identified to several 
joists. Significant cracks can be seen in the photos, and the surveyor was able to reveal 
deteriorated timber using a screwdriver. Again, this deterioration is shown throughout the 
sub-floor void area. 
I acknowledge Mr Rs comments that ventilation is present to the sub-floor void. He has 
supplied a photo showing an airbrick to support this point. From the surveyors reports this 
vent wasnt observed. I dont dispute Mr Rs comments that this is in place. But it is clear that 
both surveyors and Mr Rs contractor all agree the sub-floor ventilation is inadequate.
Mr R disputes UKIs view that a joist has failed beneath the bathroom, where a notch had 
been cut to allow a drainage pipe from the shower to pass through. He doesnt think the joist 
has failed and says UKI refused to employ a structural engineer to verify this further. He 
comments further to say he thinks the surveyors report is misleading and his expert has 
shown the escape of water is the cause of the damage. 
We asked UKI for its comments on Mr Rs report. It responded to say this doesnt provide 
substantive information that requires a revision of its surveyors decision. It says all the 
report shows is there was a pre-existing damp issue resulting in timber rot. It says the report 
wasnt written by a qualified building surveyor. It says it suggested to Mr R that a qualified 
building surveyor should be employed if he chose to obtain a report. UKI says the contractor 
isnt acting independently in making a judgement on the potential cause and is looking to 
deal with the restoration of the damage. 
I have thought about the difference in opinion as to the cause of the damage. We arent 
experts and must rely on the expert opinion provided when considering if an insurer has 
treated their customer fairly. In this case UKI obtained two reports from Royal Institute of 
Chartered Surveyors (RICS) registered surveyors. The reports are very detailed and include 
numerous photos to support the issues identified. I think the findings set out in these reports 
are persuasive.
Mr Rs contractor isnt a RICS registered surveyor. He does have the Certified Surveyor in 
Remedial Treatment (CSRT) qualification. But Im not persuaded that Mr Rs contractor is 
better qualified to determine the cause of the damage. The report he provided is less 
detailed and doesnt have the supporting photos included with UKIs reports. The contractor 
also quoted to carry out remedial works, so I think UKIs comment they arent independent, 
is fair. Having consider this Im more persuaded by UKIs inspection reports.    
 
UKI refers to its policy terms that it says excludes the large part of the damage found with Mr 
Rs property. The terms, under the section entitled This policy doesnt cover say:
Just like most insurers we dont cover
Damage caused by rot, fungus, woodworm, beetles, moths, insects or vermin  
Any damage caused gradually
Faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty materials.The damage is thought to be the result of rot and the lack of sub-floor ventilation. I think the 
terms show that these causes are excluded from cover. UKI offered a partial payment of the 
overall repair costs it estimated. This relates to the repairs required in the bathroom. It linked 
this to the escape of water  albeit its surveyors thought damage had already occurred prior 
to the leak. In the circumstances I think this was fair. But Im not persuaded that the report 
Mr R provided should be preferred over the reports UKI obtained from the RICS surveyors. I 
dont think Mr R has shown that an increased payment to cover more of the repairs is 
appropriate  
I note Mr Rs comments that he doesnt think the surveyors acted professionally in relation to 
the RICS code. Its not within my remit to consider this. What Ive considered is whether it 
was fair for UKI to rely on the expert opinions it obtained, which I think it was. 
Im sorry that Mr Rs summer house requires repairs and I can understand its disappointing 
that the full cost of this isnt covered by his insurance. But having considered all of this I dont 
think UKI treated Mr R unfairly when relying on its policy terms and offering a partial 
settlement payment for the claim he made. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman