DRN-3555446
The complaint
Mrs S complains about delays in the transfer of her stocks and shares ISA. She says errors 
by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL) caused her a financial loss and 
many hours were spent trying to resolve the situation. 
Mrs S complaint is brought by a power of attorney (POA) on her behalf. 
What happened
In January 2021, Mrs S POA commenced a transfer of her HL ISA to a new provider.  
In April 2021, HL requested verification documents from Mrs S in order to complete the 
transfer. Her POA responded and asked if he could provide verification details for himself. 
HL responded and said it needed documents from Mrs S. The POA called several times and 
wrote a letter to the Chief Executive and Chairman of HL to try and resolve the impasse. The 
POA received a reply in May 2021 to explain there had been an issue with the updating of 
Mrs S address and this had led to the request for verification. It was confirmed the records 
would be corrected and the transfer request would be processed. The POA didnt feel the 
response answered the queries he raised, so asked a full reply. After several chasers, the 
POA received a reply to say his queries would be treated as a formal complaint. 
In June 2021, HL responded to the complaint. It apologised that the Chief Executive and 
Chairman hadnt responded. It admitted an error on its part in the updating of Mrs S address 
had caused the request for verification, which shouldnt have been needed. It said it rectified 
the mistake and continued with the transfer application  which was completed on 4 June 
2021. It also said it would consider any financial loss Mrs S feels she has suffered as a result 
of the delayed reinvestment of her funds. It also offered £200 as an apology, which was 
credited to Mrs S account. Finally, it explained its anti-money laundering process with 
regards to verifying customer information. 
Mrs S POA didnt accept the offer on her behalf and raised further queries with HL about the 
transfer. He requested an increased level of compensation to reflect the time he had spent 
dealing with the matter.  HL responded to say it wouldnt offer further compensation for the 
POAs time. It clarified an initial delay was due to the new ISA manager sending a cash ISA 
transfer form, which it rejected as Mrs S holds a stock and shares ISA. Then it didnt receive 
the correct form until 26 March 2021 from the new ISA manager. Further discussion about 
the complaint continued. HL increased its offer to £300 but the POA rejected this and asked 
for higher compensation. HL didnt agree to pay more compensation. 
In August 2021, Mrs S POA referred the complaint to this service for independent review. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter. After further investigation, HL agreed to 
make a further payment to Mrs S to cover the financial loss she suffered as a result of the 
delay in the transfer of her ISA. The POA confirmed that Mrs S was prepared to accept the 
proposed compensation. But he also requested that HL make a payment to cover the time 
he had spent dealing with the complaint on Mrs S behalf. He estimated he spent over 12-
hours communicating with various members of their senior management and wanted to be 
paid for this.
Our investigator considered the remaining issues and provided his assessment. He didnt 
think HL needed to do anything further. In summary he said the offer made to cover Mrs S 
financial loss was fair. He also thought the £300 it had offered for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mrs S was reasonable in the circumstances. He didnt think HL 
needed to do anything further  including pay any compensation to cover the costs that the 
POA claimed. He explained that this service doesnt award compensation for inconvenience 
to third parties only to the complainant  which in the circumstances was Mrs S. He also 
noted that the POA hadnt charged Mrs S for representing her, so didnt think there was any 
loss in this respect to be considered anyway.
Mrs S POA responded and said he would be retrospectively charging Mrs S £1,800 for the 
time he had spent dealing with her complaint. The investigator responded to say that this 
didnt change his findings. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been 
passed to me to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset I think it would be helpful to explain that our ability to consider this complaint 
stems from the customer relationship Mrs S has with HL. Her status as a consumer and a 
customer of HL means she is the eligible complainant under our rules to bring a complain to 
this service. Her complaint is being brought on her behalf by a POA, but he doesnt have a 
customer relationship with HL in respect of this complaint. 
I do appreciate the POAs feelings about the service he was given but I should confirm that 
my role is not to fine or punish businesses for their actions. My role is to investigate 
individual complaints and if I believe some incorrect or unsuitable action has been taken by 
that business, decide if the consumer had been disadvantaged in some way. If they have 
been financially disadvantaged, my aim is to reasonably make good that loss. I do not award 
compensation over and above that, although I can make awards for inconvenience or upset 
the matter has caused. But I need to be clear that my considerations relate to Mrs S solely 
and not any impacts on the POA. He is authorised in law to represent her, but as he isnt an 
eligible complainant in his own right, we wouldnt award compensation for impact caused to 
the POA personally.  
The crux of the complaint centers around the request to transfer Mrs S ISA holdings to a 
new provider. In summary, there were delays that meant the transfer took longer than it 
should have. HL says initially it didnt receive the correct transfer information from the new 
provider. Then it has admitted an error with the address it held for Mrs S caused delay as 
sought to verify the address. I wont go into detail here as HL as admitted it made mistakes 
within this process. HL has agreed to put Mrs S back in the position she would have been in 
if there were no delays  and the transfer completed within 30 days rather than the several 
months it did take. 
Ive considered the offer HL has made to Mrs S to see if it fairly compensates Mrs S. The 
offer HL has made is in line with what this service would award to put things right when there 
has been delays in the transfer of an investment. It has agreed to cover the financial loss 
Mrs S has suffered because her money wasnt invested while there was a delay. It has 
agreed to compete a comparison to see if there is a loss incurred as a result of not investing 
on 24 February 2021. On 30 March 2022, it calculated Mrs S had lost out by approximately 
£650.  I understand that the POA has confirmed that Mrs S is prepared to accept this offer. This element of the compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and Im not 
going to comment further on this aspect of the compensation as the proposed method has 
been accepted. But it does need to be updated to the point of settlement. 
HL has also offered to pay Mrs S £300 for the impact of the delayed transfer. As explained 
above, we are able to make awards distress or inconvenience suffered by eligible 
complainants  but not for the direct impact on third parties. For this complaint this means, I 
consider the offer of compensation awarded to Mrs S to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. And while I acknowledge the frustration and time the POA has described in 
his dealings with HL, I dont make any further award in this respect for the reason Ive 
explained. 
The POA says HL should cover his costs. But our investigator explained that as the POA 
told us he wasnt charging Mrs S when he first brought the complaint, there were no fees to 
be paid. The POA has since told us that he has now decided to charge Mrs S for the time he 
has spent dealing with the complaint on her behalf. But having considered the 
circumstances, I dont think it is appropriate to make an award for HL to cover the costs that 
the POA now claims on Mrs Ss behalf. The role of a POA is to make decisions on behalf of 
a donor  in this case Mrs S. If the POA has now decided to charge Mrs S for his time, that 
is a matter outside of the considerations of my remit with regards to the complaint about HL. 
Also, I havent seen anything from when the complaint was first made to suggest there was a 
contract between Mrs S and the POA that would underpin the costs now being claimed, or 
evidence that Mrs S or HL were aware the POA was charging for his time. I accept it would 
have been inconvenient and time consuming for the POA to sort out the issues caused by 
the delay. But Im not persuaded there were pre-agreed costs associated with that effort, or 
that HL ought to have been on notice of any fees it might have to cover. So I dont consider it 
would be fair to ask HL to cover those now.
My final decision
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited has already made an offer to complete a 
comparison to establish if Mrs S has suffered a financial loss as a result of the delayed ISA 
transfer. It should update its calculations and pay any resulting loss up to the date of 
settlement. 
It has also offered to pay £300 to settle the complaint for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its handling of the transfer. I understand this amount has now been paid, so 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited doesnt need to make any further 
payment to Mrs S for this element of the compensation. 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances, so my decision is that Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited should pay the remaining compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman