DRN-3163231
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial 
Services (VWFS) reported adverse information to credit reference agencies (CRAs) 
about his hire agreement. He said this resulted in a declined mortgage application. 
What happened
Mr A acquired a car under a 36 month hire agreement with VWFS in March 2019. 
In April 2020, Mr A requested a payment deferral. Whilst VWFS considered Mr As 
application, it suspended his hire agreement and no payment was required for May 2020. It 
also granted Mr A a four month payment deferral and sent Mr A a modified hire agreement in 
July 2020. But Mr A told VWFS he was unhappy with the increased payments due under the 
modified agreement and asked it to extend the term of the agreement instead. 
However, VWFS said it didnt think this was suitable for Mr A and so declined to do this. So 
Mr A said he no longer wanted the payment deferral, as he didnt accept the terms of the 
modified agreement.
Following this, Mr A contacted VWFS and complained it had reported adverse information to 
the CRAs. 
VWFS issued its response to Mr As complaint and said whilst it considered Mr As 
application for a payment deferral, this caused adverse information to be reported to CRAs 
in May 2020. It said it had removed this information and offered Mr A £150 compensation as 
a gesture of goodwill. However, it acknowledged that Mr A had rejected this offer. 
Unhappy with this, Mr A referred his complaint to our service and said as a result of the 
adverse information VWFS reported to CRAs, a mortgage application he made was 
declined. He said this added extra pressure and stress to him and caused a relapse in his 
mental health. And he said although the issue had been resolved after two months, he had 
to pay a larger APR on his mortgage.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said he thought the offer VWFS had made in 
relation to the information it had reported to the CRAs was fair. But he thought that VWFS 
should have granted Mr A a payment deferral and allowed him to add the arrears at the end 
of the agreement. He recommended that VWFS pay Mr A a further £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
VWFS said it did offer Mr A a payment deferral which he declined. And it said it told Mr A his 
payments would increase regardless of whether the term was increased or not. However, it 
said it would agree to pay Mr A £150 as per the investigators recommendations to draw the 
matter to a close. Mr A also disagreed and said VWFS should also pay for cost of the 
increase in interest on his mortgage and the additional arrangements fees, as a result of not 
being able to get the mortgage he wanted to.
Our investigator asked Mr A to provide further information to show that the terms of his 
mortgage only changed as a result of the information VWFS reported to the CRAs. Mr A 
said an independent broker had already confirmed this. He said VWFS left him without funds 
to support himself and his partner as he was expected to pay around £1,500 in a short time. 
And he says he lost out on a deal from a mortgage provider that wanted less deposit, had a 
lower interest rate, and no arrangement fees. He said the mortgage provider couldnt offer 
this deal as a result of the information reported to the CRAs by VWFS. 
As Mr A remains unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as this 
is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr As complaint against VWFS.
What I need to decide here is, whether VWFS should have extended the term of Mr As 
agreement when he requested help as a result of Covid-19 and whether it acted fairly when 
it reported adverse information to the CRAs in May 2020. If I think it acted unfairly, I need to 
decide whether it needs to do anything to put things right. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued temporary guidance on 24 April 2020, that 
came into effect on 27 April 2020, about customers who were faced with payment difficulties 
as a result of Covid-19. This allowed financial businesses such as VWFS to grant a three-
month payment deferral to people like Mr A. The guidance said that a firm should grant the 
customer a payment deferral for 3 months unless the firm determines (acting reasonably) 
that it is obviously not in the customers interests to do so. The guidance also said that 
firms should not report a worsening arrears status on the customers credit file during the 
payment deferral period.
I dont think VWFS did anything wrong when it accepted the payment deferral and told Mr A 
hed need to pay increased payments. This is because the FCAs guidance said that, Firms 
are not prevented from continuing to charge interest under regulated credit agreements 
during a deferral period. So VWFS was entitled to charge further interest if Mr A agreed to 
the terms of the payment deferral. 
VWFS provided Mr A with two months of breathing space in May and June 2020. So it 
informally allowed Mr A to not be required to make payments for two months under his hire 
agreement. And it was in July 2020 that it told Mr A about the terms of the modified 
agreement. But Mr A disagreed with these terms and instead he said that VWFS should 
extend the term of his hire agreement instead. But VWFS declined to do this. 
Having thought about this, I think VWFS could have applied the further guidance the FCA 
issued in July 2020. This said:
1.35 Where a customer can resume full repayments after the initial payment deferral, but is 
unable to pay the deferred amounts immediately and in full, the firm should allow them to 
repay the deferred amounts over the remaining term of the agreement or allow a longer 
period for repayment. The firm should consider what is most in the customers interests.
1.36 For example, where appropriate, the firm could lengthen the time during which the 
customer is allowed to make repayments by:
 the length of the initial payment deferral or
 a period of time that enables the customer to keep the same contractual payments they 
had prior to the payment deferral.
Mr A said when VWFS didnt agree to extend the agreement, he made a lump sum payment 
by credit card to cover the arrears. Whilst Mr A did pay this amount immediately and in full, 
this amount was paid through credit, not through savings. So he had to take out further 
borrowing to make the repayments.  
VWFS hasnt provided any information to confirm why it didnt allow Mr A to extend his 
agreement. In light of this, I havent seen enough information to suggest that VWFS considered what was most in Mr As interest when it didnt allow him to extend his 
agreement. And so, I havent seen enough to make me think that it wasnt right for VWFS to 
provide Mr A with an extended period of time to make any deferred payments. 
Mr A says as a result of VWFS not agreeing to this, he was required to pay the deferred 
amount of £1,690.41 immediately. He said he paid this using his credit card as he didnt 
have the funds available. He said he then had to keep taking out further credit cards which 
had 0% interest offers to avoid making the deferred payment straight away. 
Having thought about this, Im satisfied VWFS caused Mr A distress and inconvenience 
when it didnt provide him with an extended period of time to make the deferred payments. 
Our investigator suggested VWFS pay Mr A an additional £150 to reflect the issues with the 
payment deferral. I think this amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
When VWFS looked into whether it would grant Mr A a payment deferral, it incorrectly 
reported arrears to Mr As credit file for May 2020. VWFS accepts it did this in error and 
became aware of this in early July 2020. Mr A says four missed payments were reported but 
hasnt provided supporting information to show this. However, theres no dispute that some 
adverse information was reported by VWFS to the CRAs when it shouldnt have been.
On 17 July 2020, system notes show VWFS updated the CRAs and asked them to remove 
the adverse information it had reported. However, VWFS noted that one of the CRAs had a 
delay in removing the information and only updated Mr As credit file on 4 August 2020. 
VWFS offered Mr A £150 for the distress caused.
Mr A says as a result of the incorrect information reported, he was declined for the mortgage 
he wanted and was offered a mortgage with less favourable terms. He accepted this 
mortgage but says hed like VWFS to pay for the financial loss he has suffered and will suffer 
as a result of accepting the mortgage with the less favourable terms.
The initial mortgage illustration was produced on 8 July 2020. Mr A has provided an email 
dated 4 August 2020 from the broker to say that the lender declined the application due to 
adverse credit issues identified on Mr As credit file. The second mortgage illustration is 
dated 19 August 2020.
Having considered whats happened here, I dont think VWFS need to do anything further. Ill 
explain why. 
The mortgage illustration explains there is no obligation for the mortgage lender to grant    
Mr A a mortgage. The email from the broker says the lender hasnt granted the mortgage 
due to adverse credit issues on Mr As credit file. However, it doesnt confirm what these 
adverse credit issues are - and the email is from the broker rather than the lender. A lender 
can decline a lending application for a number of reasons. In this case, Mr A hasnt provided 
supporting information from the lender to explain that the only reason Mr A wasnt granted 
the mortgage was due to the information reported by VWFS. And he hasnt provided 
information from his credit file.
But even if Mr A did provide this supporting information, the final response letter VWFS sent 
to Mr A on 17 July 2020 confirmed it would remove the adverse information it had reported 
to the CRAs. And it did this. But one of the CRAs didnt update Mr As credit file until           
4 August 2020. This was on the same day the mortgage broker sent the email confirming the 
initial application had been declined. This email urged Mr A to resolve the CRA issues. But 
at this point, the information reported by VWFS had been removed. The email also said the 
broker would be appealing the decision. A further illustration was produced on                    
19 August 2020, which is 15 days after the credit files had been updated. 
In this case, I dont think Mr A has provided enough information to show VWFS was the sole 
reason for the mortgage lender declining his initial application. And even if he did, I still dont 
think VWFS need to do anything further because VWFS had already confirmed in writing it 
would be removing the information. This information was provided to Mr A to pass to the broker to appeal the mortgage providers lending decision. Also, the mortgage illustration 
wasnt a guarantee from the mortgage lender to lend to Mr A. And its not been confirmed 
that the lender would have approved Mr As mortgage application, even if the information 
was removed by VWFS in advance of the application being made,
In addition, whilst I dont think VWFS should have reported the adverse information in the 
first place, the delay in removing the information from the credit file was caused as a result of 
one CRA having delays, rather than VWFS. So I think the £150 VWFS has offered Mr A is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances given it reported adverse information to Mr As 
credit file for around three months.
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear about the impact this has had to Mr As health, I think the 
amount offered by VWFS, a total of £300, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It 
follows I dont think VWFS needs to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Financial Services (VWFS) should pay Mr A the following if it hasnt already:
£150 for not providing Mr A with an extended period of time to repay the arrears 
accrued as a result of Covid-19; and
£150 for incorrectly reporting information to Mr As credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2022.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman