DRN-3673236
The complaint
Mrs P has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has declined her claim under her pet insurance policy on the ground that the claim was for 
treatment of a pre-existing condition which is excluded by the policy terms.
What happened
The background to Mrs Ps complaint has been given in our investigators view of the fair 
and reasonable outcome so I wont repeat it here in detail. Briefly stated, Mrs P had a pet 
insurance policy with C&G from 3 June 2021 for her dog who Ill refer to as D.
On 10 December 2021, D visited the vet who diagnosed that he was presenting with diffuse 
neoplasia of the liver with spread to spleen  HCC or bile duct adenocarcinoma most likely. 
Further investigation was undertaken over the following weeks to identify what was causing 
his condition and what potential treatment might be possible, but very sadly on 26 December 
2021 D was euthanised as a consequence of liver cancer. 
Mrs P made a claim against C&G for the treatment D had received. Having reviewed Ds 
veterinary history, it noted that on 20 June 2019 D had attended the vet who had recorded 
the presence of a mass on Ds right inner thigh, which the vet thought looked like a fluid filled 
cyst. Mrs P say this subsequently healed well.
C&G declined Mrs Ps claim on the ground that the mass noted on Ds thigh in 2019 was a 
pre-existing condition.
 
C&G referred Mrs P to a number of terms of her policy, which she had taken out on-line and 
which wouldve been brought to her attention during the purchase process. 
It says that when setting up her policy for D she wouldve been taken through a section 
called 'Assumptions'. Within this section is the following statement:
'You accept that no cover will be provided for any illness or injury that is pre-existing or 
if it were to arise within the first 14 days from the policy start date or 5 days in the 
event of an accident'.
A Pre-existing condition is defined in the policy as:
Any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or Associated Condition which has 
happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms of existing in any form before the 
Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
An Associated Condition is defined as:
a Condi tion th at is either a recurring Illness and /or Accidental Injury or Lu mp; or 
relate d to a previ ous Illness and/or Accidental Injury or Lu mp; or caused by a previous 
Illness and /or Accidental In jury or Lump. When applying the Bene fit Limit and the terms 
of this Policy, any Tr eatment for an Associated Condition will be considered as one 
Condition, regardless o f whe n the Tr eatment occurre d.
By a further term of the policy, C&G reserves the right to place any relevant exclusions if it is 
made aware of a pre-existing condition. The policy states:
General Exclusions
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for
any of the following reasons;
 If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these
Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
C&G maintains that D had on an Associated Condition before the Policy Start Date and 
therefore introduced a retrospective exclusion to Mrs Ps policy, excluding from cover:
 Anything to do with the Growths, Tumours, Cancers and Associated Conditions with 
effect from 3 June 2021. 
As the condition being claimed for did not satisfy the terms and conditions of the policy, C&G 
declined payment for Ds veterinary treatment.
On 8 February 2022, in response to C&Gs rejection of Mrs Ps claim, Ds vet provided a 
fuller report on the condition D presented with on 10 December 2021 and the treatment that 
was considered. The vets opinion was that:
 Given the diffuse nature of the disease, the only neoplasia which would have been 
amenable to any form of treatment was lymphoma. Whilst the biopsies did not give a 
definitive diagnosis they convincingly ruled out lymphoma.The 'growth' previously 
mentioned in 2019, and any other skin growth before or after, are completely unrelated 
to the condition and investigations described above and in no way connected at all.
Ds vet also stated that if the condition noted in December 2021 had been connected with 
Ds condition in June 2019, he would not have survived so long. 
The opinion that there was no connection between the two conditions was shared by three 
vets who had been involved in Ds treatment.
C&G maintains that whilst it appreciated the comments by Ds vet that the mass noted in 
2019 was unrelated to the possible histiocytic sarcoma noted in December 2021, the 
condition falls under the endorsement for Growths, Tumours, Cancers and Associated 
Conditions. As D had suffered from a dermal mass prior to the policy's inception, Mrs P had 
made a qualifying misrepresentation which entitled it to add the endorsement. It says Mrs 
Ps claim was correctly declined. 
Mrs P therefore brought her complaint to this service. Our investigators view was that she 
didnt think it was fair to conclude that a pre-existing condition was present before the policy 
started which was linked to the condition claimed for. Nor did she consider that there had 
been any misrepresentation which would entitle C&G to rely on the remedies provided for 
misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentations) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). She concluded that C&G shouldnt have added a backdated exclusion to Mrs 
Ps policy and didnt act fairly when it declined the claim in reliance on that exclusion. 
C&G doesnt agree with our investigators view and has asked that the complaint be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
When Mrs P purchased her policy on-line, she was asked:
Are you looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition?
Mrs P wouldve been required to answer either Yes or No. If Mrs P were to have selected 
Yes, she wouldve been advised that C&G was unable to provide Mrs P with a quote and 
that she should contact it for more information. If Mrs P had answered No, she was able to 
complete her purchase process.
To complete the purchase process, Mrs P wouldve been required to confirm her 
understanding and acceptance of the policys assumptions and terms, one of which was that 
the policy didnt cover pre-existing or associated conditions. 
For there to be a misrepresentation, Mrs P would need to have provided incorrect 
information to C&G, either innocently, negligently, or recklessly, in response to a direct 
question about Ds health. Insurers require such questions to be answered accurately as the 
answer will influence whether they are willing to provide cover, and if so, subject to what 
conditions and what premium.
But Mrs P wasnt asked any questions about Ds previous veterinary history. She was only 
asked if she was looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition. In my view any 
answer to such a question cant be regarded as misrepresentation. Therefore the remedies 
open to C&G under CIDRA dont apply, and I consider that its unreasonable for C&G to 
have imposed an exclusion on Mrs Ps policy on this ground.
The policy terms, however, are clear that pre-existing conditions arent covered. In 
answering No during the purchase process, Mrs P said she didnt want cover for any such 
conditions. Mrs Ps complaint is therefore only able to succeed if C&G can provide evidence 
that the condition claimed for is connected to any health matters that D had prior to the 
inception of the policy on 3 June 2021. The evidence I have, provided by three vets who 
treated D, is that there was no such connection. C&G hasnt provided any evidence as to 
why it says there is a connection. To deny Mrs Ps claim, it relies on the exclusion that it 
retrospectively added to her policy, which I have found to be unfair.
My conclusion therefore is that C&G has acted unfairly towards Mrs P in denying her claim, 
and at a particularly difficult and distressing time for her. Her veterinary bill was significant, 
and the worry of having to pay this because of C&Gs rejection of her claim will have added 
to her distress at the loss of a much-loved pet. I agree with our investigator that this merits 
compensation and that £250 is appropriate in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Ps complaint.I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to re-assess Mrs Ps 
claim without reference to the exclusion it introduced and subject to any other terms and 
conditions of her policy.
I also require it to pay Mrs P interest on any sum paid following such reassessment at the 
simple rate of 8% from the date of her claim to the date that payment is made to her.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs P how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mrs P 
compensation of £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman