DRN-3261946
The complaint
Mr D complains PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) declined his payment despite 
him passing the security and authentication questions.
What happened
On 8 August 2021 Mr D bought a flight online. He initially selected PayPal as the method of 
payment but this didnt work. He ended up paying by an alternative method. And says he lost 
out financially as by the time he was able to complete the purchase the price of the flight had 
increased.
Mr D told us, after logging in and being asked to verify security on the PayPal app, he was 
redirected to PayPals web page and was then advised he would be called by PayPal and 
given a unique security code that he had to input for the transaction to be authorised. Mr D 
says he entered the security code PayPal sent him but didnt receive confirmation that the 
payment had been successful. Mr D says he only found that the payment had been declined 
after calling the airline. 
Mr D told us he then initiated an online chat with PayPal who told him their internal security 
system blocked his transaction and advised him to go directly to the merchant and use an 
alternative payment method. Mr D did this and found the price of the flight had increased. He 
asked PayPal to compensate him for the additional cost following the failed payment and 
then brought the complaint to us after PayPal responded to him stating no error had been 
made.
Our investigator issued two views in this matter. He upheld the complaint as he hadnt seen 
any evidence to show Mr D failed any of the verification steps hed been asked. So, he 
wasnt persuaded it was fair for PayPal to block the transaction. He initially thought PayPal 
should pay Mr D £100 to cover his financial loss and a further £50 for the distress and 
inconvenience this had caused. 
Mr D accepted the view and the investigators suggested settlement but PayPal didnt. They 
sent some screenshots. One they said demonstrated that Mr Ds security authentication 
failed on the day he tried to pay for the flights on his account with them. Another to show the 
only confirmation code hed received that day was to confirm his mobile number, not to 
authenticate a transaction. And a third to show why security concerns were flagged along 
with extracts from the User Agreement dealing with restricted activities and limitations of 
their liability. 
On review of this information the investigator said he remained convinced Mr D did all he 
could reasonably do to verify himself, but PayPals system still blocked the payment. And for 
that reason, he still thought PayPal should compensate Mr D with a payment of £150. But 
the investigator said this wasnt to reimburse Mr D for his financial loss, but rather as 
compensation of £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
PayPal asked for an ombudsman to review this case. After it was referred to me, I asked 
PayPal to clarify some points on the information theyd sent after the investigators first view, 
which they did.
On 12 January 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In that I didnt uphold the complaint. 
Based on the evidence Id seen I wasnt persuaded Mr D passed all the security and 
verification checks required of him. So, I didnt think PayPal had done anything wrong when 
it declined the payment. And, in line with the User Agreement, PayPal didnt have to disclose 
information about their security procedures and risk management. Nor did I think there 
wouldve been any change in the overall outcome if Mr D had received direct notification of 
the declined payment. 
Mr D didnt agree and was disappointed in the decision. He said some of the information in 
the decision was inaccurate. Firstly, telling him he didnt pass security when he knew for a 
fact he categorically did. Mr D told us he no longer had the documentary evidence to 
substantiate his complaint as hed deleted it on getting the investigators decision. He said 
regardless of this it was difficult to prove as its his word against PayPal who hadnt been 
very supportive or understanding.
Mr D also said it was entirely inaccurate to say he mustve known the transaction failed.
He said he had no reason to believe it hadnt completed as it appeared to go through
successful and if it had failed the system should have notified him. But there was no such 
message. He told us he only called as he didnt get confirmation from the airline. But that 
was sometime after as he waited and then phoned the airline to check.  
PayPal told us they accepted the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Ds points on my provisional findings and thank him for the information 
about the rebooked flight and its overall cost to him. Firstly, in response to his belief that 
were here to protect consumers I should make it clear that the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is to resolve individual complaints and to award redress where 
appropriate. Were an independent dispute resolution service. Its my role independently 
review the evidence and decide if a mistakes been made and, if so, to put the parties back 
into the position that they would have been in if the mistakes hadnt been made. But in this 
case I remain of the view that PayPal havent done anything wrong.
I understand Mr D feels strongly about this.  Im sorry he feels there are inaccuracies in my 
decision. But what hes detailed in both instances arent factual inaccuracies, rather where 
theres a difference in opinion. 
My findings in relation to the security and verification are based on the information before me 
from both parties. PayPal have sent records to show the security failed, so its not simply a 
case of their word against his. Mr D hasnt sent me any new information or evidence on the 
security checks. Its regrettable that evidence he held on this point has been destroyed whilst 
this investigation remained open. But, in the absence of any new information showing Mr D 
passed security, Im afraid the repetition of his comments alone on this point dont change 
my findings. And on the point of notification that his transaction had declined, for the reasons 
Ive given, I dont think this wouldve made any difference to the overall outcome of the 
complaint here.
Although I anticipate Mr D will disagree with me, theres nothing before me which changes 
my findings about any aspects of the complaint. So, I dont see any reason to alter my view.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2022.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman