DRN-3350520
The complaint
Mr T complains about the support he has received from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VWFS) in relation to a finance agreement he has with it.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr T entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a used car. Mr T 
complains that during the course of the agreement he fell behind with his repayments. Mr T 
tells us he only missed these repayments due to experiencing financial difficulties due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Mr T indicates that he had begun to make extra repayments to catch up 
on arrears. However, according to Mr T, without any warning, VWFS defaulted his account. 
He tells us VWFS made no attempt to take any other course of action other than the default. 
Moreover, now the debt has been passed to a third party who is trying to get him to repay 
the debt in full all in one go. Mr T tells us that this third party has visited his home seeking 
payment. Mr T complained to VWFS.
VWFS responded to say it had terminated Mr Ts account as according to it, it was entitled to 
do. Its stance is that at the time it terminated the account, Mr T made only a part payment in 
June 2020 and missed payments for July, August, September, October and December 2020 
and February 2021. It acknowledged Mr T made ad hoc payments in January 2021 and 
February 2021. VWFS used the payment made in January 2021 to cover the arrears for May 
2020 and part of June 2020. Further the February 2021 payment was applied to his account 
to pay for the arrears run up in November 2020. VWFS indicated it had issued Mr T with a 
default notice in February 2021 and that Mr T had not taken the steps he could have done to 
avoid the default and so the account was terminated. On this basis it did not agree it had 
done anything wrong and declined to uphold Mr Ts account.
Dissatisfied Mr T complained to our service. 
Once Mr Ts complaint was with us VWFS provided further information. Its records showed 
that Mr T had a history of missed payments both in 2019 and early 2020. In particular he had 
missed payments for February 2020 and March 2020, together with the missed payments it 
had mentioned in its response to Mr Ts complaint.
Moreover, VWFS let us know it had issued several notices of sums in arrears (NOSIA) to 
Mr T over the life of the agreement. This included one such notice which was issued in early 
April 2020 in respect of two months of arrears. VWFS indicated that Mr T had asked for a 
payment deferral in March 2020. VWFS offered Mr T some forbearance options instead. 
Moreover, in May 2020 Mr T was offered both the option of 60 days breathing space and a 
payment deferral. Although ultimately VWFS did not go ahead with the payment deferral on 
the basis that it did not think that it was in Mr Ts best interests.
In addition, VWFS told us about the repeated attempts it had made to discuss the situation 
with Mr T which Mr T did not respond to. VWFS indicates that it was only after its attempts to 
come to an agreement with Mr T had failed and after it had told him what steps it was 
planning to take that it terminated the agreement.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ts complaint. He did not recommend upholding Mr 
Ts complaint.
VWFS accepted this recommendation. Mr T did not. In brief, he suggested he had never 
received any communications from VWFS to let him know he was in arrears or to offer him 
any sort of plan for getting back on track. Neither had it contacted him, he suggested before 
it defaulted his account. Moreover, he indicated that he only fell behind with his payments 
due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr T also let us know that he no longer had the car.
We sent Mr T copies of the correspondence that VWFS had told us it had sent to Mr T about 
the arrears and how to avoid a default and what would happen if he did not take action. Mr T 
responded to let us know his complaint was not about whether he had arrears he already 
told us he had these. Rather his complaint was about how VWFS treated him when he was 
experiencing financial difficulties due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Specifically, he said.
The dispute is about the fact the whole world was shut down no one could work to make 
money to pay for things yet companys like [VWFS] are still sitting with there hand out. I tried 
to get in contact with [VWFS] to try come to some kind of arrangement but that went 
nowhere as there excuse to me was that the price of my vehicle was to high for them to help 
me out and its snowballed from there with no communication from them despite me trying to 
resolve the issue.
We had reached an impasse, so I was asked to take a fresh look at Mr Ts complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr T suggests that he fell into arrears due to temporary financial difficulties caused by the 
Covid-19 pandemic. Then out of the blue despite his best efforts to sort things out VWFS 
defaulted his account. He considers that in the circumstances VWFS did not treat him 
appropriately. In particular, it did not take account of the why he was in arrears and did not 
tell him what it intended to do, even though he was communicating with it. 
In the normal course of events, when a party signs a contract, the general starting point is 
that both parties intend to be bound by the terms of the contract. That being so I think it fair 
and reasonable that both Mr T and VWFS should be able to rely on the terms of the contract.
It does not seem to be in dispute that Mr T breached the contract by falling behind with his 
repayments. Further it does not seem to be in dispute that the contract permits VWFS to 
terminate the contract if there has been a breach. Neither does Mr T appear to dispute that 
when the NOSIA was issued in April 2020 he had two months of arrears and by the time the 
last NOISA was issued he had at least 8 months of arrears. I think I can take it as read that 
Mr T did not respond to the notices because he suggests he never received any communications about the arrears and VWFSs intention to default the agreement if he did 
not take the action required in the NOSIAs.
Where a customer is experiencing financial difficulties a firm such as VWFS is expected to 
show due forbearance. The actions that a firm might consider would include for example the 
firm considering suspending, reducing, waiving, or cancelling any further interest or charges, 
deferring payment of arrears, or accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time. 
However, this would be a two-way street in that the firm would need to work with the 
consumer. In this instance VWFSs records show it tried repeatedly to contact Mr T to work 
things out. I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of VWFSs records in this respect. I dont 
find it likely in the circumstances that VWFS failed to contact Mr T about his arrears, it had a 
duty to do this and it could face regulatory action if it ignored this duty. Further, it was in 
VWFSs commercial interests to contact Mr T. Moreover, I find it unlikely that correctly 
addressed emails and letters were never delivered to Mr T.  For all of the reasons, on the 
face of it, VWFS did not act inappropriately in taking action to recover the arrears and then 
defaulting the account when Mr T did not take action to avoid the default. 
That said,  the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) which regulates financial firms such 
as VWFS introduced guidance, which sets out what firms such as VWFS had to do where 
consumers faced temporary financial difficulty in relation to motor finance agreements due to 
the pandemic. In fact, the FCA issued several sets of guidance. But I will give the several 
sets of guidance the collective name of the guidance. 
The guidance did not apply where a consumer had financial difficulties not related to the 
pandemic. The guidance was not in force when Mr T first began to run up arrears. The 
lockdown rules related to the pandemic were not in place. Therefore, it is difficult to see how 
Mr Ts initial payment difficulties could be down to the pandemic.
Moreover, even if I accepted the guidance did apply to Mr T, which I dont, this would still not 
assist him. This is because whilst the guidance anticipated that consumers who were 
experiencing financial difficulties due to the pandemic would be offered a payment deferral of 
up to six months, there was a proviso. The proviso was a payment deferral could only be 
given if it was in the consumers best interests. It is hard to see how it would have been in Mr 
Ts best interests to offer him a payment deferral when he was already in arrears and given 
that his normal monthly repayments were relatively large (around £600 per month).
In the circumstances, for the reasons I have gone through above, I dont find that VWFS 
acted unreasonably in response to Mr Ts financial difficulties.
Given that, on balance, an early termination of the agreement was Mr Ts only realistic 
option, I would have expected VWFS to have gone through the early termination options with 
Mr T. VWFS suggests it did, Mr T says it did not. I think this is a moot point here. I say this 
because I would have expected VWFS to look to find the early termination option which was 
the most beneficial for Mr T. The choices were voluntary surrender, voluntary termination, or 
unilateral termination by VWFS for breach of contract by Mr T. Usually unilateral termination 
is the worst option financially for a consumer. That said in this instance given how long the 
agreement had to run and the amount of repayments that Mr T had made, it is not clear to 
me that voluntary surrender or voluntary termination would have been the better options for 
Mr T. Further still, both of these options would have involved Mr T handing back the car and 
it seems that was not something Mr T wished to do at that point. Further, I am satisfied, as I 
mention above that VWFS took sufficient steps to give Mr T fair notice of its intentions.  For 
all of these reasons Ive no proper basis for saying VWFS acted incorrectly in ending the 
agreement by defaulting it. Moreover, I am satisfied VWFS was entitled to try and recover 
the debt or to sell the debt on to third parties.
It follows from all of the above that I cant fairly or reasonably agree that VWFS has acted 
incorrectly and I therefore cannot ask it to take any further action.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman