DRN-4215422
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money they lost when they 
were the victims of a scam.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr and Mrs C received a phone call from someone claiming to work in 
HSBCs fraud department. The caller spoke to Mr C and said they were concerned their 
account had been compromised and explained they needed to move their money to a 
secure account to keep it safe. As Mr C believed he was speaking to HSBC, he followed the 
instructions the caller gave him and made a number of payments out of his HSBC accounts 
to the account details the caller gave him - including £24,000 out of his and Mrs Cs joint 
account. Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer.
After the payment were made, Mr and Mrs C became suspicious of what had happened and 
so called HSBC, who confirmed it was a scam. HSBC then investigated and said it felt it had 
sufficient fraud prevention measures in place, but that Mr and Mrs C could have done more 
checks before making the payment. So it didnt agree to refund the money Mr and Mrs C had 
lost. Mr and Mrs C werent satisfied with HSBCs response, so referred a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think HSBC had established 
that it gave Mr and Mrs C an effective warning before the payment was made, or that Mr and 
Mrs C had made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief that it was genuine. So 
they thought HSBC should refund the money Mr and Mrs C had lost as a result of the scam. 
HSBC disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C made payments out of a number of accounts as a result of the scam, but this complaint 
is only dealing with the payment made out of Mr and Mrs Cs joint account with HSBC.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr and Mrs C fell victim to, in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those 
exceptions to reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr and Mrs C ignore an effective warning in relation to the payment?
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
HSBC has sent us screenshots of the warning Mr and Mrs C were shown before making the 
payment. And this does say not to proceed if you are being asked to move money for 
safekeeping purposes, as Mr and Mrs C were. And it says that if someone has told you to 
mislead HSBC about the reason or the payment, as it appears the scammer did here, then it 
is a scam.
But the warning is mostly talking about romance or friendship scams over social media, so I 
dont think it will have seemed relevant to what was happening to Mr and Mrs C. It doesnt 
go into any detail about what a safe account scam like the one they were falling victim to 
would look or feel like. And the information about safekeeping is some way down the 
warning, after the information about social media impersonation or romance scams which 
wasnt relevant to Mr and Mrs C. So I dont think this warning was specific enough to be 
effective in Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances.
And so I dont think HSBC has established that Mr and Mrs C ignored an effective warning in 
relation to the payment.
HSBC has argued that Mr and Mrs C selected paying friends and family when asked what 
the purpose of the payment was, and so mislead it about the true purpose of the payment 
and prevented it from showing a more effective warning. But the test under this part of the 
CRM code is just whether Mr and Mrs C ignored an effective warning. And, regardless of 
why they were shown this particular warning, I dont think the warning they were shown was 
effective in their circumstances. So I still dont think HSBC has established that Mr and 
Mrs C ignored an effective warning.
Did Mr and Mrs C have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
HSBC has said there were a number of things about what Mr and Mrs C were told and 
asked to do that should have caused them significant concern. So it doesnt think they had a 
reasonable basis for belief when making the payment.But when the scammer first called, Mr C says they verified his identity in the same way 
HSBC usually does by confirming his name, date of birth, first line of address, post code and 
last transaction on the account. Hes also said the scammer knew details of the accounts he 
held with HSBC. And from what hes said about this, I think its reasonable that this will have 
made the call seem genuine.
Mr and Mrs C have also said the scammer knew that they had received a text message 
earlier in the day asking them to pay for a covid test. The scammer then explained that this 
would have been a scam and was likely how their account was compromised. And while the 
text message was likely sent by the same scammer, I think them using it in this way and 
basing their explanation of what was happening around it would have linked what they were 
saying to actual events, made it seem like they knew what they were talking about and made 
it seem like they were trying to help. So I think its reasonable that this will have made what 
the scammer was saying seem believable and reassured Mr and Mrs C that the call was 
genuine.
The scammer asked Mr and Mrs C to send the payment to an account which they said was 
for an account manager. So while they were asked to send money to an account that wasnt 
in either of their names, they were given a seemingly plausible explanation for this. And 
while they were also asked to move money from several accounts, through different 
accounts and then on to the external accounts, Mr and Mrs C have said the scammer 
coached them through the whole process. And as I think the first part of the call was 
relatively convincing and Mr and Mrs C were then understandably stressed about the 
possibility of losing their money, I dont think its unreasonable that they then followed the 
instructions of someone they thought was a bank employee.
HSBC has also highlighted the warning Mr and Mrs C were shown and said it wasnt 
reasonable for them to continue to make the payment after seeing it. But, as I explained 
above, I think most of this warning wasnt relevant to Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances. It says 
it is a scam if someone has told you to mislead HSBC, but then mostly talks about romance 
or friendship scams over social media which isnt what was happening with Mr and Mrs C. 
And it only briefly mentions moving money for safekeeping later in the warning, after this. So 
I dont think its unreasonable that Mr and Mrs C didnt think this warning was relevant to 
them and continued to make the payment after seeing it.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, its possible to identify a number of things 
about what they were told that should have caused Mr and Mrs C some concern. But based 
on what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable that, in the moment, Mr and Mrs C either 
didnt pick up on these things or werent caused enough concern to overcome the parts of 
the scam that felt genuine.
So I dont think HSBC has established that Mr and Mrs C made the payment without a 
reasonable bass for belief that it was genuine.
I therefore dont think HSBC has established that any of the exclusions to reimbursement 
under the CRM code apply here. And so, under the CRM code, I think HSBC should refund 
the money Mr and Mrs C lost as a result of this scam.
I also think this payment was large and unusual enough that HSBC should have identified Mr 
and Mrs C were potentially at risk of fraud as a result of it, and so intervened to carry out 
additional checks before allowing it to go through. And that, if it had done so, the scam would 
likely have been uncovered and the loss prevented at that point. So I think HSBC should pay 
interest on the amount Mr and Mrs C lost from the date of the payment, until the date of 
settlement.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund Mr and Mrs C the £24,000 they lost as a result of this scam
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date of the payment until the date of 
settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman