DRN-2771239
The complaint
Mr C complains that Monzo Bank Ltd hasnt paid him for all the people he referred to the 
bank as part of its promotional referral scheme.
What happened
In 2019, Monzo ran a referral scheme intended to reward existing customers for signing up 
their friends and family. To be eligible, existing customers would need to introduce a new 
customer to Monzo and, upon completion of a successful referral, both customers would 
each receive a £5 reward. For a referral to be successful, new customers needed to 
complete a number of qualifying actions  such as signing up on the Monzo app and making 
a payment.
Over the course of the year, Mr C successfully referred several thousand new customers to 
Monzo and was paid for around 2,000 of these. But in July 2019 Mr Cs personal referral link 
was switched off, meaning he was unable to continue referring new customers. Mr C says 
he was assured that he would be paid for any referrals who were already in the process of 
signing up using his link. However, Mr C said that on the day his personal referral link was 
switched off, he also stopped being paid  despite the number of referrals increasing on his 
mobile banking app.
Mr C raised his concerns with Monzo and said he was owed for approximately 1,400 
referrals. Monzo reviewed matters and said Mr C had been correctly paid for all successful 
referrals, as there were no further referrals when the link was switched off. It explained that 
the figure he could see on his mobile banking app was the number of people who had 
signed up, and not people who had signed up and made a payment  therefore not a full 
referral. 
Monzo also pointed out that referrals expire in four months. Given that Mr Cs referral link 
was switched off at the beginning of July 2019, Monzo said that successful referrals would 
have needed to happen by the end of October 2019 to count. Monzo did, however, pay Mr C 
£30 compensation for the length of time it took to respond to his complaint.
Mr C didnt agree with Monzos review. He said that in the days before his referral code was 
switched off, he received several payments for successful referrals. So, he thought it was 
unlikely that there were no more referrals and, instead, more likely that Monzo had just 
decided to stop paying him. Unhappy with its response, Mr C brought his complaint to our 
service. He also pointed out that Monzo had removed the number of referrals from his 
mobile banking app, so he couldnt see an exact figure anymore.
In its submissions to our service, Monzo acknowledged that the information it had previously 
given Mr C was incorrect. It offered him £100 compensation to recognise this. It confirmed 
that the number of successful referrals through Mr Cs link had increased, but he had 
stopped being paid from the point that the link was switched off. Monzo said this was 
because Mr C had advertised his referral code on a well-known search engine using search 
terms related to the bank. So he hadnt acted in line with the spirit of the promotion. 
One of our investigators reviewed matters. He thought that, in the absence of specific terms 
stating that Mr C couldnt act in the way he did, it would be fair to pay him for the remaining 
referrals. He also pointed out that all the newly referred customers received their bonuses, 
so it would be unfair if Mr C didnt. He agreed that £100 compensation for the incorrect 
information was fair. 
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision where I said the following:
What was the promotion intended for?
Ive first thought about whether there were any clear rules relating to the promotion. 
In its submissions to this service, Monzo said there were no terms and conditions 
that it could share relating to the promotion and what it was intended for. Mr C has 
also noted this. He says there were no restrictions around the volume of new 
customers referred or how the referrals were made. 
I do think it wouldve been helpful to have clear rules around the promotion. Without 
these, I can see how matters could become open to interpretation. But, even in the 
absence of clear rules, I think its important to keep in mind the spirit of the promotion 
and what it was intended to do. So, this is what Ive thought about next. 
Monzo says the intention of the promotion was to reward customers for signing up 
their friends and family. This is also reflected in how the promotion was advertised in 
the mobile banking app. The screenshot Ive seen says: Invite your friends to join 
Monzo by sending a golden ticket. So, I do think Monzo had specific intentions for 
how the promotion should be used. And, Im satisfied that these intentions were 
made clear to its customers.
Was it fair for Monzo to switch Mr Cs referral link off?
Ive considered that one of the ways Mr C shared his referral link was through paid-
for advertising. Additionally, Mr C said that he wasnt friends with all the new 
customers he had referred to the bank. Taking this into account, whilst keeping in 
mind the intention of the promotion, I can understand why Monzo had concerns 
about Mr Cs actions.
Mr C says Monzo didnt stipulate what friends and family meant. Ive thought about 
this point carefully. Whilst this may be the case, it remains clear that the intention of 
the promotion was not for it to be used in the way Mr C did. And it couldnt be 
suggested that the people signing up using Mr Cs code were friends or family using 
any ordinary meaning of the words. Mr C paid for his referral code to be advertised 
online and it was used by people that he didnt know. With this in mind, Im not 
persuaded that Monzo has treated Mr C unfairly by turning his referral link off.
Was it fair for Monzo to stop paying Mr C?
Ive considered that the referrals made using Mr Cs link continued to increase after 
the link had been switched off, as new customers were going through the required 
steps to open an account. In Mr Cs view, each of these completed referrals should 
lead to him receiving his reward. However, given the methods Mr C used to generate 
the new customers, and the sheer scale of the operation, I think it was reasonable for 
Monzo to put a stop to the payments at the point that it did.I say this because Monzo had raised reasonable concerns about how Mr C had 
generated all the new referrals in the first instance. And, despite this, had still paid  
Mr C for around 2,000 of the referrals he had made  in other words, in the region of 
£10,000. By doing so, I think it recognised a lot of the new customers that joined the 
bank using Mr Cs referral link. But it was reasonable for it to draw a line at the point 
that it did. And, I dont think Monzos actions caused Mr C to lose out overall. I say 
this because he may have put some time, effort and money into this enterprise, but 
he still earned a large sum of money in rewards through the promotion. 
Monzos customer service
I do think that Monzos customer service couldve been better and it couldve been 
clearer about the overall referral numbers in its communications with Mr C. Monzo 
agreed that it gave Mr C wrong information and has offered to pay £100 
compensation for this. Having considered the circumstances, I think this is a fair 
amount to reflect the impact caused here.
Additionally, Im aware that Monzo didnt respond to Mr Cs complaint in time. I can 
see Monzo has apologised for this and paid Mr C £30 compensation, which seems 
appropriate to me.
Monzo responded to the provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. Mr C 
disagreed with the decision and made reference to another complaint that had been referred 
to our service. Mr C said that in this other complaint, Monzo had no issues with the volume 
of referrals made, nor did it question the method of generating these referrals. Mr C says 
that all referrals were paid in this other case and he therefore believes that Monzo hasnt 
been consistent and has treated him unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same.
Mr C has drawn a comparison between his complaint and another complaint that was 
referred to our service, which he believes covers similar ground. As I understand it, he thinks 
Monzo has demonstrated a lack of consistency because it paid out for all referrals made on 
the other complaint but hasnt done so in his case.
However, my role is to review the merits of this individual complaint before deciding whats 
fair in these particular circumstances. Therefore, in deciding this case, I need to consider 
whether Monzo treated Mr C unfairly when it decided to draw a line under matters. 
Its clear Monzo was concerned with both the sheer volume of referrals made and the way 
Mr C generated the referrals, for the reasons that Ive previously outlined. As such, it put a 
stop to things because Mr C wasnt using the promotion in the way it had intended. Despite 
its concerns with Mr Cs actions, it still paid him for a substantial number of the referrals he 
made. So overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, I cant agree that Monzo has acted 
unreasonably, or treated Mr C unfairly by putting a stop to his referrals at the point that it did.
I do, however, think the information Monzo gave Mr C was incorrect. I think the £100 
compensation it has offered to pay fairly reflects the impact caused.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint and, if it hasnt already, I require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr C £100 
compensation for the wrong information it gave him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman