DRN-4071623
The complaint
Miss L complains about Wakam S.A. (Wakam), regarding a claim under her mobile phone 
device protection policy for damage to her phone.
 
Wakam uses agents to administer and provide services under the policy, as well as to deal 
with claims and complaints. Reference to Wakam in this decision includes those agents. 
What happened
In November 2022 Miss Hs phone was damaged after a fall, cracking the screen. She 
contacted Wakam to tell them about the damage and make a claim. She received an email 
requesting she pay the £40 excess due under the policy, after which they would send her the 
instructions for the repair or replacement of her phone. She was also told this process would 
be quicker if she sent proof of payment of the excess, which (after some exchanges with 
Wakam about the detailed information they required) she did some 12 days later. However, 
her phone then broke completely, making it unusable. She contacted Wakam, who couldnt 
locate her payment.
Miss L contacted Wakam again and was asked to deactivate a tracking feature on the 
phone. Miss L was asked to send the phone to a service centre, but she asked if she could 
take it to a branch of a Wakam partner repair firm and was told to deal with the firm directly. 
She went to a branch and was told the phone couldnt be repaired (and bought a temporary 
replacement phone at a cost of £12.04). At that point, Wakam said the phone was beyond 
economic repair and issued a voucher for the value of the phone (redeemable at an online 
source). However, concerned at the prospect of not having a phone over the Christmas and 
New Year period and losing personal data from the phone if it was replaced, Miss L took the 
phone to another branch of the firm, who were able to replace the screen (at a cost of £119). 
However, concerned at the sequence of events and what she thought poor communication 
from Wakam, Miss L had lodged a complaint with them. But they didnt uphold it. In their final 
response, they said theyd asked for proof of payment (including bank account details) three 
times to enable them to locate the payment and progress the claim. So, part of the delay 
was due to Miss L not responding to their requests. They said theyd then processed the 
claim, creating a work order and issuing a voucher for the value of the phone (as it was 
beyond economic repair). They also referred to policy terms and conditions covering the 
claims settlement procedure, including backing up date and disabling the tracking feature. 
While Wakam didnt uphold the complaint, they offered (as an ex gratia payment) to refund 
25% of the excess.
Separately, Wakam said they wouldnt reimburse Miss L the £119 for the screen 
replacement as theyd issued a voucher equivalent to the value of her phone according to 
the policy terms and conditions. And they didnt recommend customers paid for repair of 
their device as the cost wasnt covered by the policy.
Unhappy at what had happened, Miss L complained to this service. She thought Wakams 
communication had been poor, and because of the delays locating the payment of her 
excess, her phone had broken completely. A voucher from Wakam wasnt acceptable as she 
didnt intend to use it (having paid for the replacement of the screen). She wanted a refund 
for the cost of the policy (£35.88) as well as reimbursement of the £40 excess; £12.04 for a 
temporary phone; and £119 for the screen replacement. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Wakam didnt need to take any 
action. She thought the policy terms and conditions made it clear the need to back up data 
and disable the tracking feature. And Wakam had asked Miss L for proof of payment to 
speed up the issue of a work order and shipping details to their service centre. But Miss L 
hadnt been able to provide the necessary degree of detail to enable this to be expedited. 
And in deciding the phone was beyond economic repair (and issuing a voucher for the value 
of the phone) theyd also acted in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Miss L disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint (though noting she was refunded the £12.04 for a temporary phone). However, 
she said she shouldnt have been required to pay the cost of replacing the screen, as her 
policy should have covered it. While she noted Wakam had issued a voucher (for £119) she 
doubted she would use it to buy another phone from the online site. And the first branch she 
approached said the phone couldnt be repaired  but the second branch said it could (and 
replaced it). Miss L said the branch told her she would need to pay for the repair and reclaim 
the cost from Wakam. She chose to have the phone repaired to avoid delay (in sending it to 
Wakams service centre) and to avoid loss of data. While she accepted the £40 excess 
wouldnt be repayable, she maintained she should be refunded the £119 cost of replacing 
the screen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Wakam have acted fairly towards Miss L.
The key issue in Miss Ls complaint is whether Wakam acted fairly in how they responded to 
her claim for the damage to her phone. Miss L says there were delays in confirming receipt 
of the excess payment, leading to the phone breaking completely. Wakam should reimburse 
her the £119 cost of having the screen replaced. Wakam say they asked Miss L three times 
to provide sufficient detail of her payment of the excess. Miss L says Wakam shouldnt have 
needed to take so long to confirm receipt of her payment from the time she made it.
On the cost of replacing the phones screen, Miss L says Wakam should cover the cost 
under the policy (as the phone wasnt beyond economic repair). Wakam say they acted in 
line with the policy terms and conditions in issuing a voucher for the value of the phone.
In considering the complaint, Ive carefully considered the views of both Miss L and Wakam, 
together with the supporting information and evidence theyve provided. 
On the first issue, the time taken to confirm receipt of the excess payment, Ive looked at the 
evidence. It does indicate Wakam asking Miss L for more detail on the payment to enable 
them to confirm it (such as her account number). While the damage to her phone will have 
affected Miss Ls ability to provide the necessary detail, it did take some time. So, I dont 
think it unreasonable of Wakam to ask for details to enable them to locate and confirm 
payment.
Ive also considered the issues of data backup and disabling the tracking function on the 
phone (which, respectively, concerned Miss L and took time). Ive also looked at the policy terms and conditions referred to by Wakam in their final response. They refer to Section 6.3 
What is the claims settlement procedure? Which states:
Prior to shipping the insured device to the service centre, the insured user is 
responsible for the following:
If the device contains files, personal data, databases, or software stored by 
the insured user, to create an external backup before deleting them from the 
device before shipping the insured device. The personal data will be 
destroyed by the service centre upon receipt of the insured device.
If the insured device contains a tracking or cloud feature or account (or 
equivalent), disable this feature or account prior to shipment.
So, I think the policy terms and conditions make both requirements clear, and theyre the 
responsibility of the policyholder (Miss L).
Ive noted the same section also includes the following:
You must in any case send the insured device with the approval of the 
administrators, to the service centre designated by the administrators for diagnosis to 
be carried out at the insurers expense.
The administrators will provide you with appropriate instructions for shipping the 
insured device or in order to get the insured device repaired locally.
I think this sets out the process to be followed for a phone to be assessed and a decision 
made on whether it can be repaired or not. From what I understand of the sequence of 
events, Miss L first took the phone to a branch of the repair firm, who said it couldnt be 
repaired. That being the case, it appears this was the trigger for Wakam deeming the phone 
to be beyond economic repair and for them to issue a voucher for the value of the phone. 
The issue of the voucher in those circumstances would be in accordance with the following 
policy terms and conditions, under Section 4 - What benefits are payable under the 
insurance cover?:
If the cost of repair exceeds the replacement value of it, after examination of the 
insured device, it cannot be repaired, you will receive a replacement in the form of a 
voucher redeemable on [].co.uk in accordance with the conditions and limitations 
set out in 4.3 and 4.4 of these terms and conditions of insurance.
(Section 4.3 covers the excess payable under the policy and Section 4.4 covers the detailed 
calculation of the replacement value of the phone).
So, Ive concluded (when Wakam issued the voucher) they were acting in accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the policy (as the first branch concluded the phone couldnt be 
repaired).
However, it appears the second branch where Miss L subsequently took the phone said it 
could be repaired (and they replaced the screen). Miss L says the branch told her she would 
need to pay for the repair and reclaim the cost from Wakam. I can understand why she 
chose to have the phone repaired to avoid a delay (in sending it to Wakams service centre) 
and to avoid any loss of data. But given Wakam had already issued a voucher for the value 
of the phone, based on what the first branch concluded, I dont think Wakam acted  
unreasonably based on what they had been told at the time (they issued the voucher). And 
in doing this they acted in line with the policy terms and conditions, as set out above.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman