DRN-3094569
The complaint
Miss C, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information from Morses about the loans approved for Miss C, a brief table has been 
compiled. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount Max. Weekly 
Repayment
1 11/11/2016 12/05/2017 33 £400.00 £20.00
2 12/05/2017 17/11/2017 33 £500.00 £25.00
3 27/10/2017 Sold 33 £200.00 £35.00
4 17/11/2017 Sold 33 £500.00 £35.00
According to Morses statements of account Miss C appeared to have ceased paying for the 
last two loans around September 2019 and they were sold to a third party debt collector in 
March 2020. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint, including the details Morses had from 
Miss C when she applied for the loans. He did not think that Morses had done anything 
wrong and he wrote to both parties giving reasons why he thought that. 
Miss C responded through her representative to say: 
No I don't agree given the circumstances the agent only ever did my full earnings and 
income and outgoing on the first time round. Never did they ask on any others just 
clicked through the ipad and asked me to sign and processed the loans. So I do 
believe had they adequately checked everything thoroughly then it would have been 
a different circumstance entirely.
No additional evidence or information has been sent to us by Miss C. 
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was for the consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. But in Miss Cs circumstances I do not 
think that four loans in one year was enough o have established a pattern. 
Morses was required to establish whether Miss C could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint. 
Miss C has said that Morses only ever did my full earnings and income and outgoing on the 
first time round. So, Miss C accepts that they did carry out an income and expenditure 
assessment around November 2016 when she was applying for loan 1. And this is what 
I would have expected proportionate checks by Morses to have been in the early stages of a 
lending relationship. Miss C needs to understand that regulations did not require a lender to 
carry out any credit searches before lending and it appears that Morses did not do that at the 
time. 
Here is a summary of the figures Miss C gave to Morses. The expenditure figures did not 
include any payments to other loans  they included rent, utilities and groceries. Income Expenditure Disposable Income
£250.00 £140.00 £110.00
£462.00 £116.00 £346.00
£500.00 £170.00 £330.00
£500.00 £150.00 £350.00
Reviewing each of the figures given to Morses when applying for the loans, the income 
Miss C gave was large enough to cover her declared outgoings and other expenditure. 
So, each of the loans would have looked affordable to Morses. Each show income figures 
ranging from £250 to £500 a week and a weekly expenditure of around £116 to £170. The 
figures vary a little across the application dates but the repayments for the loans look to have 
been affordable.
I appreciate that Miss C says that she could not afford these loans, but apart from her Claim 
Audit Form I have received nothing further from her. The figures given in that Claim Audit 
Form are that she earned £1,600 a month net which translates to being around £369 a 
week. And her outgoings (including monthly sums being paid to other creditors of varying 
sorts) were £1,740 a month  which translates to be about £401 a week. 
And the figures on that Audit Form vary so significantly from the figures given to Morses at 
the time of applying for the loans that I cannot accept it as evidence without verification.
Miss C says in the Audit Form that her work hours reduced but she gives no date as to when 
that happened. And she indicates she had been made redundant in 2020. I am sorry to hear 
it but that would have been after the loans were approved and so this is not relevant to the 
complaint. 
So, without more from Miss C then I fall back on the contemporaneous information given at 
the time of application and those lead me to conclude that Miss C was able to afford the 
loans. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship then I think that Morses was entitled to rely on 
the figures she supplied. And four loans in a year at the sums I have seen approved for 
Miss C do not seem high. I do not think that Morses approved the loans irresponsibly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss Cs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept or reject my decision before 
14 December 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman