DRN-3553148
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank (and referred 
to here as Danske) declined their request to port (transfer) their mortgage when they were 
moving home. They incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) of about £7,000 which they 
would like Danske to reimburse. Mr D has dealt with the complaint throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and all the parties have their own copies, so there is no need for me to repeat the details 
here. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our 
decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to 
Mr and Mrs D being identified. So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what 
happened quite brief.
Mr and Mrs D had a mortgage with Danske taken out in February 2020. They borrowed 
£140,400 on a capital repayment basis, at a fixed rate of interest until 31 December 2024. If 
the mortgage was repaid within that period, an ERC would be payable, on a tapering scale, 
starting at 5% for the first two years, down to 2% in the last year of the fixed rate period. The 
mortgage was secured against a property purchased for £156,000.
In late 2020 Mr and Mrs D wanted to move house and applied to port the mortgage, with 
additional borrowing. They were looking at a new property costing £245,000 and had a 10% 
deposit. Danske declined the request, saying it was unaffordable.
However, by February 2021 Mr and Mrs D had an increased deposit for their new property, 
and had cleared all their previous debts, as a result of an inheritance, leaving them £700 per 
month better off. On 3 March 2021 Mr D discussed borrowing an additional £67,000 from 
Danske, and also said he could pay an additional deposit. However, he was told this 
wouldnt be possible. Mr D asked for the matter to be referred back to another adviser hed 
previously spoken to, as he wanted to discuss a porting the same amount as his existing 
mortgage. However, although the call request was logged, Mr D was never called back.
Mr and Mrs D applied to another lender, which offered them a mortgage. They repaid their 
mortgage to Danske, and incurred an ERC of £6,890.82.
A complaint was made to Danske about its refusal to port the mortgage, which Danske didnt 
uphold. 
The complaint was brought to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Initially our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. However, after looking at further evidence, she was satisfied the 
complaint should be upheld. The investigator thought that Danske should have considered a 
like-for-like port of the mortgage, which would not have resulted in any change to 
affordability. The investigator noted that Mr and Mrs D would have been able to demonstrate 
that they had the additional funds available to enable them to meet the balance of their 
purchase price. However, they were never afforded the opportunity by Danske to apply for a 
like-for-like port. 
In the circumstances, the investigator thought Danske should reimburse the ERC, plus 
interest. She also asked Danske to pay £100 compensation for failing to call Mr D back in 
March 2021 after hed asked to speak to another adviser about a like-for-like port.
Mr and Mrs D accepted the investigators findings. 
Danske did not, saying that Mr D had never asked for a like-for-like port and that it would 
never suggest this where the customer needed additional funds to complete a purchase.
Danske agreed as a gesture of goodwill to pay the £100 for its poor customer service in 
failing to return Mr Ds call.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I am not looking at issues concerning a further advance for an extension that was 
applied for (and declined) in 2020, as this isnt relevant to the complaint about the ERC.
Mr Ds position is that he asked Danske for a call back so he could discuss a like-for-like port 
of the mortgage. Danske never returned the call and had already made it clear to him that 
his application for a new mortgage would not be successful. 
The crux of this complaint is whether Danske should have considered offering Mr and Mrs D 
a like-for-like port of their existing mortgage. Danske has confirmed that, in principle, this 
would not have raised any issues around affordability. However, Danske also said that, 
because Mr and Mrs D needed further funds in order to purchase their new property, a 
like-for-like port wouldnt have been appropriate. In its response to the investigator, Danske 
apologised if it had missed the point. I think Danske has missed the point.
I say this because I think Mr and Mrs D could have gone ahead with the purchase without 
needing to take on a bigger mortgage. Mr D has provided us with evidence of additional 
funds available to him and Mrs D that would have enabled them to complete their purchase 
with a like-for-like port and no additional borrowing. Had he been called back by Danske 
after he requested this during his phone call on 3 March 2021, Mr D would have been able to 
explain this to Danske and provide the evidence. But Danske never asked, or offered 
Mr and Mrs D the opportunity to port their mortgage on a like-for-like basis.
I dont think the fact Mr and Mrs D took on a bigger mortgage with a new lender is relevant. I 
say this because Danske had made it clear that it wouldnt be offering a new mortgage and 
so there was no need for Mr and Mrs D to limit their new mortgage to the same amount as 
their Danske mortgage in order to avoid the ERC of £6,890.82. 
In the circumstances, I think the stance Danske took  assuming Mr and Mrs D would need 
a larger mortgage  blinkered the bank to the point that it didnt consider whether a 
like-for-like port would be feasible. As a result, Mr and Mrs D were denied the opportunity to 
avoid paying the ERC. And as I said above, the evidence persuades me that it is more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs D would have been able to purchase their new property by porting 
their Danske mortgage and without the need to take on a larger mortgage, thus avoiding 
paying the ERC.Putting things right
I think a fair outcome to this complaint is that Danske must reimburse Mr and Mrs D the full 
amount of the ERC of £6,890.82, together with interest at 8% simple per annum from the 
date the ERC was paid until the date of settlement.  
If Danske considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from any interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much it has taken off. Danske should also 
give Mr and Mrs D a tax deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be reclaimed from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
The investigator asked Danske to pay £100 compensation for failing to call Mr D back in 
early March 2021. Danske agreed to this as a gesture of goodwill. It is very disappointing to 
see that Danske fails to acknowledge its failings here and only considers it should pay the 
£100 as a gesture, rather than as a way of putting right its mistakes. 
I am directing Danske to pay the £100, not as a gesture of goodwill, but as compensation for 
its poor customer service. It is not open to Danske to agree to pay compensation I have 
ordered it to pay as a gesture of goodwill if Mr and Mrs D accept my final decision, as this 
will become legally binding on the bank.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Northern Bank Limited trading as 
Danske Bank to settle the complaint as set out above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman