DRN-2390227
The complaint
Mr G complains about the excess Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (The 
AA) charged him when it settled an escape of water claim he made under his buildings and 
contents insurance. He says it mis-sold him his policy and didnt make him aware of the 
excesses hed need to pay in the event of making a claim.
What happened
Mr G holds a separate buildings and contents insurance policy with the AA, which he took 
out via an online price comparison website on around 21 January 2020. On 23 January 
2020, the AA sent Mr G his policy documentation. This outlined the excesses applicable 
under the policy and explained how the AA would settle any claims Mr G may need to make.
On 1 June 2020 Mr G suffered an escape of water. So, he contacted the AA in order to claim 
for damage to his property. Mr G claimed for damage to his sofa, rug, table, chairs, vacuum 
cleaner, electrical lead, laminate flooring, skirting board and bathroom door.
The AA informed Mr G that the first six items he was claiming for would be considered under 
the contents part of his policy. And it said the remaining three items would be considered 
under the buildings section. 
The AA validated the furniture damage Mr G had claimed for via its contents supplier. And it 
cash settled his buildings insurance claim, which included payment for his laminate flooring. 
This payment was made on 14 July 2020 together with part of the contents claim it had 
approved.
As the AA had assessed Mr Gs claim under the buildings and contents part of his policy 
separately, it applied two separate excess charges. And it asked him to pay a total excess of 
£1000. But Mr G was unhappy with the amount of excess hed been charged. He said he 
hadnt been made aware when he took his policy out that separate excesses would apply. 
And he thought hed been unfairly charged a double excess. So, he complained. 
The AA investigated Mr Gs concerns, but it didnt uphold his complaint. In its final response 
to his complaint, it explained it had given him policy documentation, which had confirmed the 
level of cover hed chosen, information about how a claim would be settled and the excesses 
hed have to pay. It also said that when Mr G had purchased his policy online hed been 
asked to review the voluntary excess hed selected for both the buildings and contents 
section of his policy. So, it said the applicable policy excesses had been outlined clearly at 
the point of sale and in the policy documentation hed received subsequently. It informed Mr 
G hed been charged the correct excess and that it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
Being dissatisfied with AAs response to his complaint, Mr G referred it to our service. Our 
investigator looked into what happened and thought the AA had provided clear information 
about the policy features, excesses and exclusions in the policy documents it had issued Mr 
G at the point of sale. They werent persuaded the AA had mis-sold Mr Gs policy. And they 
didnt think it had acted unfairly in applying two separate excesses. So, they didnt 
recommend upholding this complaint. But Mr G disagreed and asked for his complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has sent our investigator some very detailed submissions about his complaint. I want 
to assure him Ive read and considered everything that both he and the AA have said when 
reaching my decision. I havent referred to all the points Mr Gs raised as Ive focused on 
what I feel are the key issues of the case. I hope Mr G wont take that as a discourtesy. My 
approach reflects the informal nature of our service.
The crux of this complaint is whether the AA made a mistake, or treated Mr G unfairly, in 
how it sold insurance and whether it applied the right excess when it assessed his 
escape of water claim.    
Mr G has argued that he wasnt informed that he would be charged separate buildings and 
contents excesses. He believes its unfair to have to pay two excesses under one claim. And 
he also disputes the excess hes been asked to pay as he said he set his excess to £350. 
He said this figure included a £100 compulsory excess and a £250 voluntary excess.
As Ive set out in the background to this complaint, Mr G purchased his policy via a price 
comparison website. And he opted to take out both buildings and contents insurance.
Like our investigator Ive seen screenshots of the AAs online sales process to see what 
information Mr G would have seen when he purchased his policy. I can see Mr G was asked 
to review the compulsory excesses applicable under the policy. He was also asked to add 
the voluntary excesses for both buildings and contents insurance separately. 
When Mr G reviewed the compulsory excess amounts, Im satisfied that he would have seen 
that an excess of £250 would apply to each contents and buildings insurance claim involving 
an escape of water. And I can see he selected a £250 voluntary excess twice.
Im satisfied that Mr G was asked to review the policy choices hed made before purchasing 
his insurance. While Mr G may disagree with me, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im 
persuaded he was made aware that the buildings and contents insurance would carry 
separate excesses.
Its clear Mr G hadnt wanted to purchase a policy that would apply two separate policy 
excesses. But its important to mention that his policy sale was conducted on a non-advised 
basis. The AA didnt recommend the policy he purchased. And it didnt provide any advice 
as to the suitability of the cover (or excess amounts) Mr G was selecting. There was no 
interaction between Mr G and the AA prior to the point of sale.
The fact that the sale was non-advised is crucial as this means the AA didnt need to make 
sure that the policy it sold was suitable for Mr Gs needs. But it had a responsibility to 
provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make an informed 
decision on whether the policy was suitable for him. The responsibility for ensuring he had 
the cover he required therefore rested on Mr G.
Like all insurers, the AA sends policy documentation to a policyholder once a policy has 
been purchased. This documentation includes, amongst other things, a statement of 
insurance and the terms and conditions that apply to the policy.The AA said that, after Mr G incepted his insurance policy, it sent his policy documentation 
by post. Our investigator has confirmed with Mr G that he received the documentation the 
AA said it sent him. So, Im satisfied he had the opportunity of reviewing all relevant 
information relating to his policy.
The AA asks a policyholder to read the policy documentation it has posted and contact it in 
the event of any queries or amendments that are required. This is important because it 
enables a policyholder to make an informed decision about whether the policy theyve 
purchased is suitable to their needs and matches the cover they required. And this is why 
insurers offer a cooling off period  during which a policyholder can cancel they policy 
theyve taken out without a financial penalty. 
Our service thinks its reasonable to expect a policyholder to read their policy documents in 
order to ensure the policy theyve purchased is suitable to their needs and matches the 
cover they require. Ive therefore thought about whether the AA provided information about 
the excesses it would apply and the way it would settled a claim in a way that was clear, fair 
and not misleading. 
The AA sent Mr G a statement of insurance, which clearly outlined that a compulsory 
excess of £250 applies to the policy in the event of an escape of water claim. And it 
explained the excess is in addition to the £250 voluntary excess Mr G had selected. The 
same information appears under the building excess part of Mr Gs policy. So, its clear that, 
in the event of a buildings insurance claim following an escape of water, Mr G would have to 
pay an excess of £500. Hed also incur another £500 excess in circumstances where he was 
also claiming for damage to his contents.
I can also see that the AA sent Mr G separate policy booklets for his buildings and contents 
insurance. These documents explain the excesses that apply. So, Im satisfied the AA 
provided clear information about the policy excesses here.
If Mr G had read the policy documentation the AA had sent him, hed have seen clear 
information about the policy excesses. He could then have either amended the policy to a 
have a lower excess or, alternatively he could have exercised his right to cancel his policy 
without penalty during the cooling off period. And he could have taken out more suitable 
cover elsewhere. 
I understand Mr G didnt contact the AA, either within his cooling-off period or prior to him 
reporting his claim, to request it change his policy excesses. And he didnt instruct it to 
cancel his policy. So, I cant fairly hold the AA responsible if Mr G didnt make it aware the 
policy hed purchased was unsuitable. As Ive already mentioned it was for him to determine 
suitability for himself.
Mr G is unhappy that the AA has charged him two separate excesses. But I dont think its 
acted unfairly in treating what happened as a separate buildings and contents claim. Ill 
explain why.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, the only damaged items that were considered to be 
contents were the sofa, rug, table, chairs, vacuum cleaner and electrical lead. Id agree that 
these items are contents, which would be properly considered as part of a contents claim.
The terms and conditions that apply to Mr Gs insurance policy explain in clear, intelligible 
language that buildings insurance includes fixtures and fittings which belong to you as the 
owner of the home.The AA has told our service that because Mr Gs damaged laminate flooring went 
underneath the skirting board it classed it as a fixture and fitting. So, it fell to be considered 
under his buildings insurance. 
I dont think the AA made an error in considering Mr Gs damaged flooring under the 
buildings section of his policy. I say this because our general approach when considering 
what items are contents is that if a property was upended, anything that would fall out is 
considered to be contents. Anything that remains in its place would be covered under a 
buildings insurance policy. 
Here, the laminate flooring is a permanent fixture  it goes underneath the skirting board. So, 
if Mr Gs property was upended, the flooring would remain in place. Wed therefore also 
class it as part of the fixture and fittings of the building. 
As the terms of Mr Gs policy with the AA explain that fixtures and fittings include fixed wall, 
floor and ceiling coverings (other than carpets), I cant find that it acted unfairly in treating 
his laminate flooring as part of a buildings insurance claim. And I think it clearly explained 
that this is how it would settle a claim.
I understand Mr G feels very strongly about the issues raised in his complaint and I realise 
hell be disappointed with this decision. But, having considered the sales process and the 
policy documentation Mr G received, Im satisfied the AA provided information about his 
policy in a clear, fair and not misleading way. In doing so, it enabled Mr G to make an 
informed choice about whether the cover hed purchased was suitable. And this means I 
dont think the policy was mis-sold. For the reasons already outlined, Im also satisfied that 
the AA didnt unfairly apply two separate excesses here. Im therefore not going to ask it to 
do anything further.
This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve Mr Gs dispute with the AA informally, 
can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr G further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman