DRN-4242834
The complaint
Mr J complains that Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical failed to provide a
guaranteed transfer value in relation to his section 32 policy.
For ease Ive just referred to Clerical Medical below.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 4 July 2023. Ive repeated here the background and my
provisional findings. Ive corrected a typing error in the fifth paragraph of my provisional
findings. Id said if, when Mr J reached SRD, Clerical Medical had simply said the underlying
fund value was insufficient to meet the GMP and so no transfer would be possible, Mr J
wouldve had the option of transferring. I meant to say that Mr J wouldnt have had that
option.
Mr J has a section 32 policy with Clerical Medical. It was set up in November 1991 and
represented benefits Mr J had accrued in an employers pension scheme. Mr Js selected
retirement date (SRD) was his 65th birthday in February 2021, which was also his state
pension age (SPA).
Mr Js annual statement sent in October 2020 said the policy was worth £33,386.15 as at 17
October 2020 and that Clerical Medical was required to use some or all of the plan value to
provide a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP). Mr Js GMP was £2,111.04 pa from age 65.
Clerical Medical would top up the policy if the part used to provide the GMP was insufficient.
Mr J would have to take advice before he could transfer if the value exceeded £30,000.
Clerical Medical wrote on 8 December 2021 asking Mr J to let Clerical Medical know by his
SRD in February 2021 what he wanted to do with his pension. The letter said, if Mr J was
thinking about using his pension to buy a retirement income or accessing his pension
flexibly, it was important to shop around and hed need the plan value to do that, which was
£33,386.15. If Clerical Medical didnt hear from Mr J by his SRD Clerical Medical would buy
Mr J an annuity. But hed lose the opportunity to choose the type of annuity that best suited
him, take tax free cash or shop around to see if another provider had a better deal.
Mr J got in contact with Clerical Medical and a letter was sent to him on 31 December 2020
confirming his retirement options. Amongst other things, it said Clerical Medical could only
issue a guaranteed retirement quote within 30 days of the SRD as annuity rates were
guaranteed for that period. Mr Js total GMP was £2,110.68 pa. His total fund value was
£33,386.15. The cost of providing the GMP was £69,323.83 which meant there was a
shortfall of £35,937.68. The letter said that retirement benefits couldnt be taken from the
policy until the value of the fund supported the cost of the GMP or SPA if earlier; no tax free
cash would be available due to the shortfall; and Clerical Medical would make up any
shortfall in provide the GMP from SRD/SPA.
The letter went on to say, if Mr J wanted to take flexible benefits, hed need to transfer the
policy away and, in doing so, hed be giving up the GMP entitlement. The actual transfer
value of the plan was £33,386.15 but the actuarial cash equivalent value was £63,696.14.
Clerical Medical would increase the transfer value to that minimum amount of £63,696.14 in
the event of a transfer. Clerical Medical also said: As the value of the policy exceeds
£30,000.00, in order to proceed with a transfer you must first take financial advice (this is a
legal requirement). We would require written confirmation from our adviser that you have
received appropriate independent advice before we could action this.
Mr J wanted to transfer away from Clerical Medical, take tax free cash from the policy and
buy an annuity with the remaining fund. He contacted an independent adviser (IFA) to
provide advice. The IFA asked Mr J to obtain a guaranteed transfer quotation so that the IFA
could give advice. In January 2021 Mr J tried to contact Clerical Medical by telephone but
because he was on hold for too long he emailed instead on 27 January 2021. He requested
quotes both for the GMP and the transfer values on the policy as the letter only gives
estimates.
Mr J didnt get what hed requested and he called Clerical Medical in February 2021. Clerical
Medical sent income quotes on 18 February 2021. The letter noted Mr Js advisers as a
different firm to the IFA hed contacted. A transfer value quote was sent on 28 February
2021 but it wasnt guaranteed. Mr J complained about how long it had taken to receive the
quotes. Clerical Medical issued a final response letter in April 2021 and paid £200 to Mr J to
say sorry for the delay.
Mr Js IFA asked for a guaranteed transfer value in July 2021. Mr J followed that up in
August 2021 and made a further complaint. Clerical Medical issued a final response letter on
1 September 2021. Clerical Medical said it understood Mr Js complaint was that hed been
trying since the beginning of the year to transfer away and Clerical Medical wasnt
responding to requests for information from him or his IFA. Clerical Medical didnt uphold
that complaint and said they didnt have authority to provide information to Mr Js IFA and
they couldnt locate any requests from the IFA or Mr J since April 2021.
Mr J provided a letter of authority (LOA) and his IFA wrote to say that a guaranteed transfer
value was required without which the IFA was unable to advise. In November 2021 Clerical
Medical sent a further final response letter, accepting thered been delays and paying a
further £50. Clerical Medical said a guaranteed transfer value couldnt be provided.
Mr J was unhappy and referred his complaint to us. On his complaint form he said hed been
trying to get a (guaranteed) transfer value from Clerical Medical since December 2020 so he
could transfer to another provider, take 25% tax free cash and buy an annuity with the
remaining fund. Hed had the chance to do that, with the annuity being a similar amount to
what hed have got from Clerical Medical, but hed missed out on that due to delays by
Clerical Medical.
Mr J also said he has serious health issues. Clerical Medicals continued failures to provide
the information he needed had caused stress. And Clerical Medical had failed to identify him
as a vulnerable customer, despite being advised of his health conditions. Mr J couldnt
transfer without specialist advice due the guaranteed benefits but he couldnt get advice
because the transfer value wasnt guaranteed. Hed been in that catch 22 situation for
eleven months. His income had been reduced and hed been unable to carry out repairs to
his home, had to sell his car and hed been unable to go on holiday.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said
there was no regulatory requirement for Clerical Medical to provide a guaranteed transfer
value and typically that wasnt offered for section 32 policies. Thered been some
misunderstanding about Mr Js request. But Clerical Medical couldnt reply direct to Mr Js
IFA as they didnt have authority to do so. And Mr J had been paid a total of £250 for service
failings which the investigator thought was fair.Mr Js IFA didnt agree. He made detailed submissions. Ive summarised the key points:
Advising based on an estimated transfer value was prohibited by the regulator, the
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). The transfer value was integral to producing the
required Appropriate Pension Transfer Analysis and the compulsory Transfer Value
Comparator. An adviser is required to give a personal recommendation. It would be
odd for an adviser to give that, knowing the data on which it was based could change
to values that would only be known after the transfer had gone ahead.
The FCAs CP (Consultation Paper) 19/25 clarified that and was confirmed in the
FCAs PS (Policy Statement) 20/06 (see paragraphs 7.24 to 7.28). The Our
Proposals section sums up by saying: Firms should not give advice based on
estimated transfer values except where the ceding scheme arrangements are
expected to be changed or replaced. That was now included in COBS (Conduct of
Business Sourcebook) 19.1.3B.
Mr J was entitled to a guaranteed transfer value in respect of his section 32 policy.
That type of policy fell within the definition of safeguarded benefits and, as the
transfer value exceeded £30,000, Mr J required appropriate financial advice before
he could transfer.
A guidance note issued by the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) in January
2016 specifically listed the right to a GMP as a safeguarded benefit. There was a
difference, depending on whether the value of the underlying assets was less than or
equal to the amount required to provide the GMP, or more than that amount. If the
latter, the policy is divided into two categories of benefit. The value used to secure
the GMP would be a safeguarded benefit and to transfer it would require appropriate
financial advice. The excess value wouldnt be safeguarded and in theory could be
transferred without advice. But here the value of the underlying assets was below the
level required to deliver the GMP. Clerical Medical is liable to deliver the GMP so any
transfer value would need to be increased to the amount required to deliver the GMP.
The guidance note pointed to the Occupational Pension Schemes (Transfer Values)
Regulations 1996 (SI 1996/1847) and, in particular, regulations 7A, 7B and 7E as to
how safeguarded benefits are to be valued. Regulation 7A  for salary related
benefits  was the relevant method here.
Part III of SI 1996/1847 which deals with statements of entitlement and calculation of
transfer values. It says a member is entitled to one statement of entitlement within
any 12 month period. That statement of entitlement must include the cash equivalent
value and give a guarantee date.
It was then necessary to refer to sections 93 to 95 of the Pension Schemes Act 1993
(as amended) (the 1993 Act). It refers to occupational pension schemes  that
included Mr Js section 32 policy with GMP benefits as it was derived from an
occupational pension scheme and is considered to be salary related benefits (as per
section 7A of SI 1996/1847). The 1993 Act says a member has a right to a cash
equivalent transfer value. So a member requests a statement of entitlement, is then
issued with a cash equivalent transfer value and then has three months from the
guarantee date to apply for that cash equivalent amount.
Clerical Medical had repeatedly told Mr J they couldnt give a guaranteed annuity
value until Mr J was within one month of his SRD. Clerical Medical was confusing the
request for a statement of entitlement (with a guaranteed cash equivalent value) with
a request for a guaranteed annuity value.
The investigator, after considering Mr Js IFAs comments, asked Clerical Medical if it issued
guaranteed transfer values for Section 32 policies and if not, why one wasnt provided so as
to facilitate the advice process. Clerical Medical confirmed it didnt provide a guaranteed
transfer value and referred to what the policy provisions said about transfer of benefits.
Section 9.1 says the investor may request that Clerical Medical, in lieu of providing benefitsunder the policy, pays a transfer value. And section 9.2 says that any transfer value to be
paid in accordance with section 9.1 shall be calculated in accordance with section 7.1 and
that pension date, for the purposes of section 9.2 only, shall be deemed to be the date on
which the units are cancelled. Section 7.1 provides that on the pension date the units
allocated to the policy shall be valued at Bid Price on that date.
Clerical Medical said Mr Js IFA was looking for a guaranteed transfer value which Clerical
Medical couldnt and wouldnt provide. It could only issue a guaranteed retirement quote 30
days prior to Mr Js retirement date. We also shared what Mr Js IFA had said and asked
Clerical Medical for any comments. Clerical Medical told us:
The transfer value quoted for a policy with GMP represents the amount Clerical
Medical believed it needed to pay out at a specific point in time to cover the GMP
liability and comply with legislation. For this type of policy Clerical Medical has a
legislative responsibility to provide the GMP at NRD.
If the customer stays with Clerical Medical that pension income will be provided at
retirement. If the customer transfers prior to NRD the transfer value must be sufficient
to cover the GMP  the shortfall figure represents the additional amount Clerical
Medical is adding to the basic value of the plan, to ensure the value transferred out
will cover the GMP liabilities, based on Clerical Medicals current assumptions.
As market conditions change, the assumptions within the calculation will also change
so amounts needed to provide a GMP will decrease or increase over time. The value
quoted wont be a fixed or guaranteed amount  the purpose of the transfer value
calculation is simply to release a fair amount of money at the calculation date to
cover the GMP liability.
The factors used in the calculation are reviewed regularly, some on a monthly basis.
One of the biggest changes recently to the assumptions used is long term interest
rates which have been rising as inflation increases. Each figure will have been the
correct amount Clerical Medical needed at that specific point in time to cover the
GMP liability, reflecting the market conditions at the time of each quote. The exact
detail of the calculation was business sensitive but Clerical Medicals understanding
was that this meets the legislative requirements surrounding GMP liabilities.
Clerical Medical referred to the FCAs Finalised Guidance FG 21/3 Advising on
pension transfers and what 6.11 said.
We dont expect firms to advise on estimated or indicative transfer values where a
guaranteed transfer value is available. In some circumstances, a guaranteed transfer
value is not available or required, eg in the 12 months before NRA [Normal
Retirement Age] or where a client is still an active member of a scheme. In these
cases, you may find it helpful to follow some of the processes set out in the estimated
transfer value guidance in the Handbook, such as communicating assumptions and
uncertainties to the client. You may also find it helpful to use a similar approach
where a transfer value has expired and a new transfer value or extension has been
requested. This means that the client is aware that advice based on a new transfer
value is subject to some uncertainties until the advice can be finalised.
Clerical Medicals understanding was that the IFA can give advice based on the
information provided to them.
We shared Clerical Medicals comments with Mr J and his IFA. Amongst other things, the
IFA thought there might be some issues with the way in which Clerical Medical had
calculated the values on the policy.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair andreasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry if Mr J feels weve delayed in dealing with his complaint. Any concerns about the
service weve provided will be dealt with elsewhere. All Im considering here is Mr Js
complaint about Clerical Medical and whether Clerical Medical did anything wrong (or didnt
do something it shouldve done) which has meant Mr J has been unable to take his benefits
from the policy. Since he reached his NRD in February 2021 hes received no payments in
respect of the policy which has caused him financial difficulties. I can understand that
dealing with the matter has been particularly stressful for Mr J.
Mr J has referred to being in a catch 22 situation. He wants to transfer his section 32 policy
but Clerical Medical is required to ensure hes taken financial advice. But Mr Js IFA says
hes unable to advise without a guaranteed transfer value and that Clerical Medical is
obliged to provide one. I dont think the position is straightforward and Im grateful to Mr Js
IFA for setting out his position in detail. But from what Ive seen Im not persuaded on either
point  I dont think Mr Js IFA was precluded from advising on an estimated transfer value
and I dont think Clerical Medical was obliged to provide a guaranteed transfer value.
Mr Js section 32 policy is a money purchase arrangement but with a GMP liability or
underpin. If a transfer is requested the provider will check that the transfer value which can
be offered is sufficient to meet the GMP liability. If it isnt, the transfer normally wont be
possible and the fund will have to remain with the existing provider until it increases to a
point where a transfer is allowed (because the GMP is covered). But, if that hasnt happened
by SRD, the existing provider will have to pay out the benefits and meet the GMP liability
anyway.
That was essentially Mr Js position. If, when he reached SRD, Clerical Medical had simply
said the underlying fund value was insufficient to meet the GMP and so no transfer would be
possible, Mr J [wouldnt] have had the option of transferring. Mr Js IFA accepts that Clerical
Medical wasnt obliged to offer a transfer value. But Clerical Medical was prepared to offer a
transfer value. Because of the GMP liability, Clerical Medical had to top up the transfer
value to an amount Clerical Medical had calculated was sufficient to meet the GMP.
I think its clear that Mr Js benefits under the Clerical Medical policy are safeguarded
benefits. The factsheet from the DWP is aimed at helping pension providers to determine
whether certain types of pension benefits which contain a promise are safeguarded benefits
for the purposes of the advice requirement. And when the exception to that requirement  if
the safeguarded benefits are worth £30,000 or less  applies. A section about GMPs is
included and says that pension benefits which represent or include a GMP are safeguarded
benefits. And the section about buy out policies (including section 32 policies) says the
benefits will be safeguarded if a liability in respect of contracted out rights (such as a GMP)
has transferred under the policy to the provider, as is the case here.
To protect consumers who might otherwise give up valuable safeguarded benefits, theres a
legal requirement on the ceding scheme (see section 48 Pension Schemes Act 2015) to
ensure that the consumer has taken authorised financial advice before allowing the transfer
to proceed. So its clear that Mr J, if he wanted to transfer, had to get financial advice and
show Clerical Medical that hed taken such advice.
Mr Js IFA has referred to the FCAs Consultation Paper CP 19/25 and PS 20/06. But I think
thats been superseded by FG (Finalised Guidance) 21/3. Clerical Medical has referred to
section 6.11 which I think is helpful. The FCA says it doesnt expect firms to advise on
estimated or indicative transfer values where a guaranteed transfer value is available. But it
goes on to say that in some circumstances, where a guaranteed transfer value is not
available or required, firms may find it helpful to follow some of the processes set out in theestimated transfer value guidance in the FCAs Handbook.
COBS 19.1.3BG, headed Guidance on estimated transfer value, refers to where a firm
gives advice on conversion or transfer of pension benefits to a retail client where the ceding
arrangement is expected to be changed or replaced by another scheme. It sets out what the
firm should do, including setting out in a provisional suitability report any assumptions and
uncertainties to the client and that the personal recommendation can only be finalised once
the transfer value and changed or replacement arrangements are certain.
I appreciate that wasnt Mr Js position. But I think the FCAs guidance acknowledges that
there are situations where a guaranteed transfer value isnt available or required and so
advice will have to be given on the basis of an estimated or indicative transfer value. The
guidance gives two examples but I think they are just that and arent exhaustive. The
reference to the Handbook guidance Ive mentioned indicates, notwithstanding that it
specifically refers to the situation where the ceding scheme is expected to be changed or
replaced, that COBS 19.1.3BC is of wider application. The upshot is that I dont think giving
advice without a guaranteed transfer value having been provided was necessarily ruled out.
As to whether Clerical Medical was obliged to provide a guaranteed transfer value, Clerical
Medical has referred to the policy terms and conditions. But these date back to 1991. Since
then theres been a very considerable amount of legislation relating to pensions, much of
which will be overriding. Mr Js IFAs arguments centre on the legislative position so Ive
considered the matter from that perspective. Mr Js IFA relies largely on the interaction of SI
1996/1847 and the 1993 Act. But my understanding is that transfers of GMPs from 6 April
2016 onwards are specifically governed by the Contracting-out (Transfer and Transfer
Payment) Regulations 1996 (SI 1996/1462).
Part II deals specifically with transfers and transfer payment in respect of GMPs. Provided
that certain conditions are met, accrued GMP rights can be transferred to another scheme
(other than an overseas scheme or arrangement. The conditions, which are set out in
regulations 5(a) and 10(a), are that the member consents in writing; the member confirms in
writing to the transferring scheme that they have received a benefit statement from the
receiving scheme in respect of the transfer amount; and that they accept the benefits to be
provided by the receiving scheme may differ in form and amount to those which wouldve
been payable by the transferring scheme and that there is no statutory requirement on the
receiving scheme to provide survivors benefits out of the transfer payment.
Regulation 5(b) provides that, in the case of a GMP transfer (whether or not it forms part of a
large payment in respect of both GMP and other rights), the transfer payment is of an
amount at least equal to the cash equivalent of the accrued rights to the GMP, calculated
and verified in a manner consistent with regulations made under section 97 of the 1993 Act.
Two points arise: first theres no reference to a guaranteed transfer value. I think if there was
that right or that was intended then SI 1996/1462, which, as Ive said, deals expressly with
post 6 April 2016 GMP transfers, would have said that. Particularly as theres reference to
the 1993 Act in connection with how the transfer payment is to be calculated. Secondly, if
other provisions of the 1993 Act were also intended to apply (such as those Mr Js IFA has
pointed to), SI 1996/1462 wouldve said so.
As Ive said, SI 1996/1462 does refer to section 97 of the 1993 Act in terms of how the
transfer payment is to be calculated. Initially Mr Js IFA said although he hadnt checked
there was no reason to suspect the transfer value which had been offered had been
incorrectly calculated. But I think there may now be some question mark about the value.
I think the transfer value that was offered is outside the scope of this complaint  which isabout whether Clerical Medical was obliged to offer a transfer value on a guaranteed basis.
In any event, Mr J didnt accept the transfer value offered and any transfer value now offered
will need to be recalculated. So I see little point in looking into how the original transfer value
was calculated and if it was correct. Id also point out that we dont offer actuarial services so
were unlikely to check in detail any calculations although we might look to see if, in broad
terms, it appeared correct and in line with the relevant provisions. Id ask Clerical Medical to
bear in mind what Ive said about how any transfer value should be calculated  that is, in a
manner consistent with the relevant regulations  in recalculating any current transfer value.
In the circumstances Im unable to say that there were failings on Clerical Medicals part
which meant that the necessary advice couldnt be provided and so Mr J was prevented from
transferring. I know Mr J has missed out on a lump sum and income since his 65th birthday.
But Im unable to say that was Clerical Medicals fault and so it follows that I cant order
Clerical Medical to make up the shortfalls Mr J has suffered. I note what Mr J has said about
being vulnerable but I think the £250 Mr J has been paid for service failings was fair and
reasonable.
Clerical Medical accepted my provisional decision and made no further comments. Mr J said
he didnt really have anything to add other than to express his disappointment and
frustration, particularly as the transfer value had fallen by some 25% which meant he was
unable to take any income from the policy. Mr J had forwarded my provisional decision to his
IFA who made some comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have much to add to what I said in my provisional decision. Ive set out above in full
my provisional findings and these form part of this decision. I do understand Mr Js
disappointment and frustration. But Id only be able to uphold his complaint if I thought
Clerical Medical had done something wrong in not providing a guaranteed transfer value.
From what Ive seen I dont think that was the case.
To deal briefly with the points made by Mr Js IFA, I agree theres some ambiguity around
FG 21/3 and that specific guidance as to whether advice can be given on an estimated
transfer value in the situation that has arisen here wouldve been helpful. But neither my
research nor Mr Js IFAs has come up with any. I think Mr Js position is somewhat unusual
in that, in most cases where the fund value is insufficient to meet the GMP liability, a transfer
wont be permitted and cant be insisted on. Based on what Ive seen my views remain as
set out in my provisional decision and I dont think advising on an estimated transfer value is
ruled out.
Mr Js IFA accepts that the entitlement to transfer a GMP is now covered in SI 1996/1462.
Again I dont disagree that theres perhaps some room for argument and different
interpretation. But, in the absence of specific reference to a guaranteed transfer value and
express cross referencing to the relevant provisions in the 1993 Act, my views remain as set
out in my provisional decision.
I note that Mr Js IFA has said that my decision is binding on Clerical Medical but not Mr J.
To clarify, if Mr J notifies us that he accepts my final decision within the time limit specified, it
will be final and binding on both parties, that is Mr J and Clerical Medical. But, as Im not
upholding the complaint, Mr J may not wish to accept my final decision. As his IFA has
pointed out, theres no appeal process.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman