DRN-3853707
The complaint
Mrs W complains The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) failed to pay her 
the maturity value from a life policy she held with them. Shes also unhappy Prudential sent 
her claim forms for a separate investment bond she wasnt aware had been set up.
Mrs W is represented in this complaint by Mrs N but, for ease, Ill refer to Mrs W directly 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I understand my decision isnt what Mrs W wanted, I agree with the 
overall conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why:
Its clear this complaint concerns two separate investments - a life policy and a 
BonusBond. Ill look to address these in turn.
First, Ive considered Mrs Ws life policy, which matured in 2007 with a value of 
£25,566.90. Its this sum Mrs W disputes having ever received and says she wasnt 
aware of the policy maturing until she was contacted by Prudential in 2022.
In April 2007, Prudential sent Mrs W notification of the policy maturing and asked her 
to complete a payment form. From the copies Ive seen Im satisfied Mrs W received, 
signed and returned the form opting for the funds to be sent to her by way of a 
cheque.
Prudential have shown me a cheque was issued on 1 May 2007 and was cleared for 
payment some days later.
I cant say which account the cheque was deposited into. This information wouldnt 
ever have been available to Prudential. But it isnt the responsibility of Prudential to 
confirm this.
Prudential have confirmed the cheque was payable to Mrs W directly and it was sent 
correctly addressed to her at the time. So, on balance, Im satisfied the cheque was 
more likely than not received by Mrs W and couldve only been paid into an account 
in her name.
I say this also because from the evidence, Im satisfied Mrs W expected to receive 
funds. Given the significant amount she expected at the time, I think its likely she 
would have contacted Prudential had she not received them. Ive seen no evidence 
this was the case, which also leads me to conclude, on balance, the funds were likely 
to have been received.
I think Mrs W wouldve more likely than not have chased Prudential for the 
whereabouts of her funds, had shed not received the cheque after being told it would 
be issued one day prior to the policy maturing.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I wont be asking Prudential to do anything here.
In respect of the BonusBond, Prudential have shown this was an option available to 
invest a one-off cash payment received by Prudential customers after its acquisition 
of another business in 1997. Mrs W signed the application form opting for her 
payment of £535 to be directed into the BonusBond.
I can also see Prudential sent a statement to Mrs W in 2019 letting her know the 
value of the bond at the time was around £1,200.
Its clear this bond is separate to the life policy from which Mrs W disputes having 
ever received payment for. And Ive no reason for concern that the figures quoted to 
Mrs W in respect of claiming the BonusBond werent correct.
It follows Im satisfied Mrs W was aware of the BonusBonds existence, at the very 
least when she signed to take it out. And I can see Prudential sent at least one 
statement to her. So, Im satisfied Prudential havent done anything wrong here.
While I appreciate Mrs W will be disappointed with my findings, in the circumstances of this 
case, Im satisfied Prudential have acted fairly and reasonably, and that no errors have 
occurred. So, I wont be asking them to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about The Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman