DRN-3184620
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1991. Mr W says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
In 1991 Mr W took out PPI to protect the payments on his existing mortgage  his mortgage 
had been in place since 1986.
The policy provided protection for Mr Ws mortgage payments in the event he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness, or unemployment. The policy would pay out for up to 24 
months per claim and it cost less than £15 a month.
At the time of the sale Mr W was employed and he said he was entitled to less than three 
months sick pay and had around the same amount of income in savings he could have used 
to make his mortgage payments if wasnt working. Mr W indicated he had no health 
problems at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. But they 
thought Nationwides offer to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-
disclosure of high commission and profit share Mr W paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Because Mr W disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr W have a choice about PPI? 
Nationwide had to make it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI.
Unsurprisingly given how long things happened, Nationwide doesnt have any of the 
paperwork from the time of the sale. Businesses dont have to keep records indefinitely.
Nationwide has provided an example PPI application, which it says was in use around the 
time Mr W took out his policy. And this shows that a customer had to complete some details 
and sign the form to agree to take it out.
Im mindful too that, because Mr W already had his mortgage in place I find it unlikely he 
would have been under the impression he had to have PPI at this stage.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I think its 
likely Mr W chose to take out PPI by completing the necessary application and did so without 
undue pressure
did Nationwide advise Mr W?
Both Mr W and Nationwide agree no advice was given. This means Nationwide didnt have 
to check that the PPI was right for Mr W  but it did have to give him enough clear and timely 
information so he could make that decision himself.
the information  
Mr W says he was only given an over-the-counter leaflet. And given the limited available 
evidence, I accept its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But as I found above, I think he chose to take it out - so it looks 
like he wanted this type of cover. And based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't 
appear that it was inappropriate for him - for example he was eligible for the cover and he 
wasn't affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those for 
unusual employment circumstances or existing medical conditions. 
So given this and the fact it was protecting his mortgage payments and ultimately his home, 
it seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr W off 
taking out the cover.
I can see that Mr W says Nationwide changed the policy in 1994 because it was unsuitable 
and it was reworded to avoid customer misunderstanding. Mr W has provided a copy of 
Nationwides letter of December 1993 informing him of this. Mr W says this shows the policy 
wasnt right for him and so it was mis-sold.
Ive thought about this point carefully, but I disagree this means the policy was mis-sold. Its 
not uncommon for businesses to review policy wording to ensure the information is 
presented in a clear and not misleading way. Its also the case that businesses change 
insurers and policy wording and/or benefits can change as a result. Im mindful too that 
Nationwide hadnt long started selling PPI (most businesses only started selling PPI in the 
early 1990s) so I dont think it was unreasonable for them to have carried out a review of the 
policy information it was giving to customers.
In any event this doesnt change my decision. Ive already said that its possible Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr W all that he needed to know about the policy. But I dont think the policy 
operated fundamentally differently to what Mr W reasonably expected from the information 
he was given. And in light of his circumstances at the time the policy wasnt fundamentally 
wrong for him - so I dont think Mr W would have been put off taking out PPI had Nationwide 
done anything more.
This means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.non-disclosure of commission
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr W, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons above Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint about how his policy was 
sold. 
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
Nationwide Building Society should pay Mr W an amount equivalent to the commission and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where 
applicable.) As Nationwide Building Society has already paid compensation on this basis, I 
do not consider that it should do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman