DRN-3924326
The complaint
Mr S complains that Creation Financial Services Limited mishandled his request to access
his personal data which it held in respect of a credit agreement.
What happened
Mr S held a credit card account with Creation and had done so for around four years. This
credit account could also be accessed online by Mr S.
In March 2022 Mr S made a subject access request (SAR) to Creation by letter asking that
it provide him with all the data that it held in respect of himself. Around two weeks after
receiving Mr Ss letter, Creation telephoned him on his mobile number. Mr S says he
explained to the agent at that time that he wasnt able to take the call and asked they called
him back later. Mr S says the agent informed him that they would write to him instead.
Mr S received a letter from Creation acknowledging his request and providing a link to its
Data Protection Notice which it explained set out how it collated, used and shared personal
information. The letter also requested Mr S provide a valid identification document
(passport/driving licence) to verify his identity. Creation said once this had been received it
would comply with its obligations under the Data Protection Act.
Mr S wrote back to Creation and complained about its request that he provide proof of
identity via documentation. He said this was unnecessary as there was no doubt as to who
he was and that his SAR had been properly made. He declined to provide any further proof.
Creation didnt uphold Mr Ss complain It said that the proof of Mr Ss identity was required to
keep his account secure, and it apologised for the inconvenience this had caused but said it
hadnt made any error in making this request.
Mr S was unhappy at Creations response and complained to this service. Our investigator
didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. He said Creation had a right to ask Mr S
for proof of identity and as he had made a written request for disclosure, it was
reasonable for Creation to have wanted to verify who he was.
Mr S disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said the request for an identity
document was unreasonable and disproportionate. Mr S said Creation should either have
phoned him back as requested, sent a text or a direct message via his online account to
seek verification of his identity. He said it was unreasonable to be asked to send identity
documents via the post.
As the parties have been unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to
me. I issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) has provided guidance to businesses on
receiving requests for a right of access to personal data. It says that a business needs to be
satisfied that it knows the identity of the requester and if it is unsure then it can ask for
information to verify the individuals identity.
Mr S said that due to the relationship he already had with Creation it wouldnt have been
unsure as to his identity. He said it had already been given and recorded his address,
telephone number and had the details of his account.
Id seen that after Creation had received Mr Ss request, it had directed him to look at its 
policy in respect of SARs as set out in its Data Protection Notice. It provided Mr S with the 
link to follow and also offered to provide it in writing or in email if Mr S preferred. I was 
unclear whether Mr S had looked at this information.
Looking at the Data Protection Notice, this set out what information was to be included in a
SAR. It said once a request was received well contact you by phone to verify your identity
and go through the details of your request. Id seen that Creation had called Mr S as per the
notice, but Creation said this hadnt been unsuccessful. However, Mr S said he had 
answered this call and requested a call back. As the call hadnt verified Mr Ss identity, 
Creation then decided to write to him to seek documentary verification of his identity.
I thought verifying Mr Ss identity before providing the requested data was a reasonable 
action for Creation to have taken. It had received a written request and making a check was 
part of its policy and in keeping with the guidance provided by the ICO. I didnt think the SAR 
letter alone would have been necessarily sufficient for Creation not to have wanted to 
confirm the requesters identity in another way.
However, I didnt know why Creation hadnt re-scheduled a call to Mr S following the first
attempt as I thought that would have been reasonable, particularly as Mr S had made that
request. I appreciated Mr Ss frustration when asked to provide valid identity documents
instead.
Mr S had been concerned about providing identity documents via the post and I wasnt 
surprised that he would be worried about doing so. However, looking at Creations Data 
Protection Notice I didnt think posting the physical document was actually required and Mr S 
could have emailed a copy. But I also didnt think Creations response letter to Mr S had 
been clear enough about how it would accept the requested documentation as it was silent 
on that point. So, I thought Mr Ss assumption it would have to be posted was 
understandable.
I was therefore intending to uphold Mr S complaint as although I thought Creation had acted
reasonably in requiring further evidence from Mr S to verify his identity I thought it would 
have been fair for it to have called him back and dealt with this verification on the phone.
Alternatively, I thought that when requesting the identity documents Creation should have 
been clearer about whether these could be provided via email rather than by post.
I accepted that this situation had caused Mr S unnecessary distress and inconvenience and I
thought a sum of compensation would be fair. I thought £75 was reasonable when looking at 
the overall impact of this matter on him.
Both parties have agreed with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although neither party has asked me to look again at my decision, I have reviewed the 
evidence and the conclusions I reached. And having done so, I havent changed my mind.Although I think Creation was acting reasonably in seeking to verify Mr Ss identity for his 
SAR, I think this could have been handled more fairly by either doing so over the phone or 
by being clearer as to how copies of identity documents would be acceptable.
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Putting things right
Im asking Creation to pay Mr S £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him by its handling of his SAR.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Im asking Creation Financial 
Services Limited to pay Mr S £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by its handling of his SAR. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman