DRN-2574275
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D are unhappy with Covea Insurance plcs (Covea) decision to decline cover 
for a buildings insurance claim. Mrs D and Mr D want Covea to repair the damage to their 
property.    
What happened
Mrs D and Mr D took out buildings insurance with Covea. In December 2019, Mr D found 
damage to his property following weather conditions which he describes as exceptionally 
heavy rain and strong winds. He says the storm conditions damaged the roof of the utility 
room leading to water entering along the wall. He contacted Covea to make a claim under 
the policy. 
Covea instructed a surveyor company  who Ill refer to as company B - to inspect the 
damage. Following the inspection, company B wrote to Mrs D and Mr D and said the 
damage wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy so the claim was 
declined. Mr D complained to Covea and they explained the damage was due to a natural 
breakdown in materials. And, the recent poor weather had highlighted the pre-existing 
damage to the roof. They agreed with the decision to decline the claim and didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs D and Mr D and thought Covea hadnt acted 
unfairly in declining the claim. Mrs D and Mr D disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs D and Mr D will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mrs D and Mr Ds home insurance policy. This covers their property for 
loss or damage caused by storm. The policy also says, under the heading General 
exceptions, that the policy doesnt insure Loss or damage arising from gradually operating 
causes including deterioration, wear and tear, corrosion, rot or similar causes. So, Im 
satisfied that Covea shouldve looked into Mrs D and Mr Ds claim because they reported the 
damage was caused by a storm. Ive then looked at whether Coveas decision to decline the 
claim, and their reason for doing so, is fair and reasonable.      
In order for us to consider whether the damage was caused by a storm, we ask three 
questions: 
 Did storm conditions occur on or around the date the damage was said to have happened? 
 Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause for the damage? 
If the answer is yes to all three questions, were likely to uphold the complaint. But if the 
answer to one of the questions is 'no' we're unlikely to conclude that the claim should be met 
due to storm conditions.
In weighing up the first question, I note Mrs D and Mr Ds policy doesnt define storm. Our 
service generally considers wind speeds of 47mph or above to be consistent with a storm. I 
have looked at weather data around the time Mr D discovered the damage and can see this 
was shortly after Storm Atiyah. The weather data shows this affected the area where Mrs D 
and Mr D live. So, I think theres no doubt there was a storm around the time Mr D 
discovered the damage. That means the answer to the first question is yes.   
 
Turning to the second question, insurers often appoint surveyors experienced in this type of 
work to look at the damage, and thats what Covea did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its 
reasonable for Covea to rely on the report when deciding whether to meet the claim. Ive 
seen the surveyors report and this notes the cause of the external damage as Natural 
breakdown of materials and the internal damage as Rainwater ingress over a period of 
time. Under a question which asks whether this is covered under the policy, the surveyor 
marks this as No. The surveyor takes photographs which show the damage to the roof and 
the ceiling of the utility room and downstairs toilet. 
The inspection is followed by a letter from company B which says their surveyor inspected 
the main roof and observed there was no evidence of any storm related damage. They say 
the roof is considered to be poorly designed and therefore the defect in the overall structure 
has contributed to the natural breakdown of materials as rain water is managing to get 
underneath the tiles on the roof and is then seeping into the internal areas where the felt 
meets the adjoining walls. In respect of the internal damage, they say the surveyor observed 
that the recent rain had come through the roof into the property. They say the surveyor 
believes that the internal damage is not the result of a single identifiable storm incident. They 
say the claim is declined.     
The photographs of the roof taken by the surveyor dont show any tiles being dislodged or 
broken or in a state which suggests any damage is consistent with storm conditions. The 
surveyor feels the roof has been poorly designed and this has allowed water to get through 
underneath the tiles and then enter the property. I note Mr D disagrees with the opinion of 
the surveyor and says the surveyor didnt lift any tiles or examine the lead flashing. I 
understand Mr D feels the surveyors inspection of the roof was limited and not as thorough 
as the inspection of the internal damage. Mr D has also provided photographs taken by a 
builder who did remove the tiles in the area of the water ingress and lifted the lead flashing. 
He says this identified the entry point for the water which he says was as a result of wind 
blowing under the overlap of two sections of roofing felt under the tiles which created a gap.   
Its clear there is a difference in opinion here, but my role is to consider whether Covea have 
acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mrs D and Mr Ds claim. Covea have instructed a 
suitable expert here to investigate the damage. I acknowledge the photographs dont show 
the surveyor removing tiles or lifting the lead flashing and investigating the roofing felt 
underneath. But, the surveyor has taken photographs of the relevant area and not identified 
any damage that would be consistent with storm conditions. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for the surveyor to not investigate this any further.  
I can see from Mr Ds letter to Covea he feels winds have lifted the tiles and the roofing felt 
underneath and then water has travelled down through this route. He says the tiles have 
presumably then fallen back into place. I have to consider, on the balance of probabilities, 
what is more likely to have happened than not. From the information Ive seen, which 
includes the photographs, I dont think the water ingress has been caused in this way as I 
would expect to see some evidence of cracked or dislodged tiles had they been lifted by storm conditions. Im persuaded by the surveyors findings and think its more likely than not, 
the water ingress has been caused by a natural breakdown in materials.     
  
In addition to this, its important to note that the surveyors investigation wasnt limited to just 
photographs. The surveyor has taken measurements and dampness meter readings. And, 
theyve concluded the internal damage is as a result of water ingress over a period of time. I 
note Mr D says there was a previous occasion earlier in 2019 when water had leaked 
causing the ceiling in his utility room to become damp. This would appear to support the 
surveyors finding that the water ingress has occurred over a period of time. And, I think its 
reasonable to conclude this is down to a natural breakdown of materials.   
I understand Mr Ds point that the damage which occurred earlier in 2019 was down to a 
previous storm which led to a smaller quantity of water entering the property. He also says 
the materials which the surveyor describes as deteriorating are in fact new. I have taken 
these points into account but, given the findings in the surveyors report, Im not persuaded 
the damage has been caused by storm conditions.  
I think the expert used to investigate the claim has taken reasonable steps to arrive at their 
decision. And, it follows, that I dont think Covea have acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
relying on the surveyors report to decline the claim. On the basis of the evidence before me 
I cant conclude that the type of damage Mrs D and Mr D are claiming for is consistent with 
the damage a storm can cause. That means the answer to the second question is no. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs D and Mr D as I can see they firmly believe the damage to their 
property is as a direct result of storm conditions. I do want to reassure them that I have 
carefully considered their points and arguments but my role is to consider whether Covea 
have acted fairly and reasonably. And, for the reasons I have given, I think they have.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman