DRN-2067040
The complaint
Mr W complains about questions he was asked and the service he received from TSB Bank 
plc when he tried to withdraw cash in branch. 
What happened
Mr W withdrew £400 from a TSB cash machine and a further £500 over the counter in 
branch on 21 November 2019. Mr W asked to withdraw another £1,000 in cash and TSBs 
branch staff asked him to say what he needed the money for. Mr W says the branch staff 
accused him of being a criminal and said he intended to use the money for guns or drugs. 
Mr W complained and TSB responded on 2 December 2019. TSB said it asks questions 
about some cash withdrawals in order to help protect all its customers against financial 
crime. TSB also said the branch manager had explained Mr W was quite far from home, had 
no identification and wouldnt confirm why he needed the cash. TSB didnt agree it had 
treated Mr W unfairly by asking questions about his request to make a withdrawal. 
As he remained unhappy, Mr W referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an 
investigator. She wasnt persuaded TSB had called Mr W a criminal and said its questions 
were reasonable. Mr W asked to appeal and his complaint has been passed to me to make 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr W and the branch manager have confirmed that there was a disagreement when 
branch staff asked why he wanted to withdraw a further £1,000 case on 21 November 2019. 
Mr W says he was accused of wanting to use his money for guns or drugs and called a 
criminal. But the branch manager says guns and drugs were mentioned, along with other 
things, as examples of items that could be obtained by criminals withdrawing large sums of 
cash. The branch manager says there was no intention to accuse Mr W of any crime.
I can see how upset Mr W is at any suggestion he is involved in criminal activities. I dont 
doubt he had entirely legitimate reasons to withdraw his money on 21 November 2019. But 
banks are obliged to carry out checks to protect their customers from potential crimes. Ive 
thought about what TSB has said about the transactions Mr W had already made that day 
along with his request for a further £1,000 in cash. 
Ive looked at Mr Ws bank statements for November and December 2019 and can see that 
on 21 November 2019 £900 had already been withdrawn. Mr W asked for a further £1,000 
over the counter, at which point he was asked for some information. Whilst the funds in the 
account are Mr Ws to spend as he pleases, Im satisfied the withdrawal wasnt something 
Mr W regularly does  it was unusual. I note the branch manager also highlights that Mr W 
was quite a long way from home and had no identification. Where an unusual transaction is 
identified, I think its reasonable for a business to ask additional questions about it. 
I think the main issue here is that Mr W felt as if he was being accused of being a criminal 
due to TSBs questions. Its very clear that the matter became heated and I think its more 
likely than not that there was a genuine misunderstanding between Mr W and the branch 
staff he spoke with. Whilst I dont doubt how upset Mr W became, I dont think TSBs branch 
staff were accusing him of being a criminal. I think they had to ask some reasonably 
personal and sensitive questions and provided examples of the types of things criminals 
could use funds to buy. But Im not persuaded that TSBs branch staff accused Mr W of 
being a criminal or intentionally sought to offend him. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W as I can see how strongly he feels in this matter. But Im 
satisfied TSB had a legitimate reason to ask further questions when he attempted to 
withdraw £1,000 over the counter on 21 November 2019. And I think the disagreement that 
followed most likely came about due to a genuine misunderstanding between the parties 
involved, rather than a deliberate attempt by TSBs branch staff to accuse Mr W of bring a 
criminal. As I havent found TSB made a mistake or treated Mr W unfairly, Im not telling it to 
take any further action.  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman