DRN-1542546
The complaint
Mr D complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited is pursuing him for a student debt despite 
him asking for the payments to be deferred. 
What happened
Mr D took out a student loan in 1994. Throughout the years Mr D had made deferment 
applications as a result of his earnings. The latest deferment application expired in June 
2017, which meant that the monthly payments towards the loan became due. 
In June 2018 Mr D was told that his account had been terminated, and the full balance of the 
loan became due. This is because under the terms and conditions of the loan, once the final 
monthly payment on the loan became due, the terms and conditions (for example including 
the possibility of deferring payment) ceased to apply and the balance became payable. 
Mr D called Erudio shortly after receiving this letter and was told that Erudio had failed to 
send all the reminders and statements that would ordinarily be sent in such situations. He 
was told that Erudio would look into matters and get back in touch him  in the meantime his 
account would be held and no further action would taken. 
Mr D didnt receive a call back, and a year later, in August 2019 he received letters that told 
him the debt had been passed to a collections agency. He said he called towards the end of 
August to log his complaint about this and ask Erudio to take the debt back so he could 
discuss repayment options. He was also told that collections activity would be paused while 
his complaint was looked into, but the collections firm continued to repeatedly contact him 
anyway.
Erudio looked into Mr Ds concerns. It said that his application for deferment of payments 
expired in June 2017. It said that it sent Mr D the forms to fill, but as these forms were not 
sent back to it, the payments became due on the 10th of each month. 
In May 2018 the final scheduled payment was called, and thats when the account matured. 
It explained that as a result, it exited the terms and conditions of the student loan, and the 
related cancellation and deferment process no longer applied. This meant that the loan was 
now due in full, and Erudio said that it wrote to Mr D in June 2018 to explain this to him. It 
acknowledged that when Mr D called shortly after this letter, he was told he would receive a 
call back  and this didnt happen. But it said that the absence of the call back made no 
difference to the status of his account. 
It also didnt agree with Mr D that communication with him had been poor. It explained that it 
had sent a number of arrears letters to Mr D throughout the years, as well as annual 
statements and a Remedy of Account in May 2018. It said that given the balance was now 
due in full, it was no longer able to defer payments and the account was being managed by 
a debt collection agency on its behalf. 
Mr D remained unhappy and referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators 
looked into the complaint. She considered that it wasnt unreasonable for Erudio to require 
repayment of the loan in full given the terms hed agreed when it was taken out. She said that the 60th payment became due on 29 May 2018 and at that point the loan matured. The 
investigator also acknowledged that Mr D hadnt deferred payment since June 2017, but had 
been sent several reminders about this. 
However, the investigator didnt think Erudio had treated Mr D fairly in the way it 
communicated with him after May 2018. In short:
Mr D received a letter in June 2018 which said it enclosed another letter - but Erudio 
confirmed that it had never sent the previous letter which was referred to. The 
investigator thought that the previous letter was the one which wouldve explained 
the situation to Mr D and provided context to him around why the loan needed to be 
repaid. The investigator thought this meant that receiving the June 2018 letter out of 
the blue wouldve caused him more stress and anxiety than wouldve otherwise been 
the case  even though the investigator acknowledged that the loan wouldve 
matured regardless. 
She understood why Mr D felt he hadnt been given a fair warning that his account 
would be a passed to a third party to collect the debt. She said that after receiving the 
19 June 2018 letter, he called Erudio. During that call he was told that Erudio might 
not have followed the correct process in relation to this account. The adviser told Mr 
D that he would need to look into things, and that Mr D didnt need to do anything 
further until Erudio got back in touch. 
So the investigator accepted that, following this call, it was reasonable for Mr D to not 
make further payments or take any further action, as that was the impression he was 
given. 
Mr D was caused further distress as a result as a result of being told in August that 
his account would be put on hold and no further collections activity would take place 
 only to then receive further letters and calls requesting payment of the loan. 
As a result of the above, the investigator considered that Mr D was caused trouble and upset 
for which a compensation payment of £150 was fair and reasonable. Mr D accepted what 
the investigator said, but Erudio disagreed. 
In short, it said that it acknowledged the situation may have caused Mr D some distress  
but it said that the account had matured correctly and most of the correspondence and 
conversations Erudio had with Mr D confirmed this.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that I agree with both the investigator and Erudio in relation to the 
maturity of the loan. So thats not something Im going to comment on any further as Im 
satisfied the investigator has clearly and fully explained why Erudio didnt do anything wrong 
in relation to that. 
So my decision is going to focus on the award of compensation which the investigator has 
said is fair and reasonable. 
And having reviewed the chronology of this case and in particular Erudios communication 
with Mr D, Im persuaded that the mistakes it has made have clearly caused Mr D trouble 
and upset for which he should receive some compensation. For example Erudio sent Mr D a letter in June 2018 which essentially reminded him that the 
terms and conditions of the loan had now been terminated, and that he had been told about 
this in an earlier letter. It explained that despite this, he had still not made a payment towards 
this loan  and that if he didnt do so, the loan would be passed to collections agency. Erudio 
has since confirmed that the previous letter wasnt ever sent  so the first Mr D heard of the 
termination of the terms and conditions was this reminder. Im persuaded by Mr Ds 
explanation that this caused him stress when he received it  and I think this is why he 
immediately called Erudio after receiving this letter. 
In that call Mr D confirmed that he wasnt aware that his account was at risk of being 
terminated  and asked how this happened. He was initially correctly told that the last 
deferment application expired in June 2017, and Mr D was told that this was why his account 
had been terminated. There was some further discussion with the adviser around the 
background to his case, and then the adviser confirmed that the loan matured in May 2018  
but that the letter confirming this hadnt been sent, as it was superseded by the account 
termination letter which Mr D received in June 2018. 
Looking through the case, the adviser told Mr D that it looked to him as if Erudio hadnt 
followed the correct process before terminating his account. 
In particular the adviser emphasised that they would generally send several reminders and 
statements which he couldnt see had happened in Mr Ds case. So he said that he would 
make some enquiries and get back in touch with Mr D. He confirmed Mr D didnt need to do 
anything at the time, and that the account would be held until he resolved the issues and 
got back in touch with him. He even confirmed that, while unlikely, he couldnt rule out the 
possibility that the termination of the account might be reversed. 
Having been reassured in this way that nothing further would happen on his account, I can 
understand that receiving letters from both Erudio and the debt collection firm that his 
account had been passed to them wouldve been upsetting. I say this bearing in mind that he 
had been very clear in his phone call in June 2018 about the financial pressures he was 
under with a small child. 
Mr D has said that he called in August 2019, shortly after receiving these letters, to 
complain. He was told that the account would be put on hold while Erudio looked into his 
concerns. Like the investigator, whilst Ive not had the opportunity to listen to this call, Im 
persuaded by Mr Ds testimony  and given that he was given a similar message in June 
2018, Im satisfied on balance that this is probably what he was told. And so Im persuaded 
that, despite being given this message, receiving further letters and phone calls from the 
debt collection agency about this debt wouldve caused further stress and worry. For all 
these reasons, I think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. 
Putting things right
Given all of these circumstances, Im satisfied that the investigators award of £150 for the 
trouble and upset caused to Mr D by Erudios poor communication is fair and reasonable. 
Whilst Im satisfied the account termination wouldve likely followed the same process, Im 
persuaded that better communication as well as being in touch with Mr D when it committed 
to doing so wouldve avoided a lot of the stress he experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Erudio Student Loans Limited must pay 
Mr D £150 within 28 days of when we tell it he accepts this final decision. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman