DRN-3716393
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr H complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited didnt fairly or reasonably deal with 
their complaint under Section 75 and/or Section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA) in respect of a holiday product purchased on 30 August 2008.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr H purchased a timeshare from a third party (the Supplier), entitling them to 
stay in a Florida apartment on a certain week in the year on 30 August 2008. To finance the 
purchase they took out a loan with a loan provider. In September 2014 they signed a deed of 
release to get them out of the timeshare. They continued to make payments under the loan 
until January 2017 when they got into financial difficulty. By this time the loan had been 
assigned to Shawbrook who took over the administration of it. A temporary payment 
arrangement was made in 2017 when Shawbrook agreed to accept reduced payments from 
March until May 2017. The loan was defaulted in October 2017 after which time no interest 
payments have been charged though the balance of the capital remains outstanding.
Mrs B and Mr H complained to Shawbrook in October 2017 about the way the loan had been 
handled and also said that they had been misled about the availability of holidays in the 
apartment  they said they had made numerous attempts to arrange a holiday but were 
unsuccessful.  
Shawbrook said that Mrs B and Mr Hs complaints about the timeshare were made more 
than six years after the cause of action arose in 2008 and so were out of time under the 
Limitation Act 1980.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our investigator initially only looked at the 
complaint about the loan. She found that, as Shawbrook hadnt made things clear about the 
payment arrangement in 2017, it should refund the interest payments incurred in March, 
April, and May 2017. Shawbrook didnt agree, but paid £50 compensation for failing to make 
the arrangement clear to Mrs B and Mr H. The matter was then put on hold until the sale of 
the timeshare could be reviewed.
A new investigator then considered the sale of the timeshare. He said that Mrs B and Mr Hs 
claim for misrepresentation under s75 CCA was out of time under the Limitation Act 1980. 
But he went on to consider the allegation under s140A claim. He thought that there was 
insufficient evidence to conclude that there had been a misrepresentation by the Supplier 
and he wasnt persuaded that there was another reason to conclude that there was an unfair 
debtor-credit relationship between Mrs B and Mr H and Shawbrook.
Mrs B and Mr H asserted that a claim was made in 2012 and provided some documents 
from the time they obtained the deed of release. But the investigator thought that a claim for 
misrepresentation under s75 CCA was still out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 as they 
didnt make a claim about in relation to the timeshare until 2017.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
sale of timeshare s75 CCA
I wont go into detail about the law that applies but essentially Mr Ps claim is brought under 
s75 CCA. In summary this sets out that a borrower under a credit agreement has equal 
rights to pursue a claim against the lender as against the supplier in respect of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract.
The Limitation Act 1980 provides that an action shall not be brought after the expiration of 
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. The Courts have held that a 
claim under s75 as an action in tort (a legal wrong) and as such under the Limitation Act the 
cause of action arises at the time the contract was signed by the parties The relevant date 
was 30 August 2008 which is the date of the contract for the timeshare. And though I can 
see that Mrs B and Mr H took some action in 2012 to 2014 to obtain their release of the 
timeshare (presumably to be relieved of the obligation to pay maintenance fees), they didnt 
assert any claim under s75 CCA until they completed a complaint form with Shawbrook in 
October 2017, more than nine years after the cause of action accrued..
I have to take the law into account. If Mrs B and Mr H were to start court proceedings against 
Shawbrook for misrepresentation, it would have a complete defence to that claim in that any 
such proceedings would be out of time under the Limitation Act 1980. And with that being 
the case, its fair and reasonable for me to take that into account when deciding the outcome 
of this part of this complaint.
sale of timeshare s140A CCA
Its also relevant for me to take this section of the CCA into account. It applies to credit 
agreements and says that:
1) The court may make an order  in connection with a credit agreement if it determines 
that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the agreement (or the 
agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor because of one or more 
of the following
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement.
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement.
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or after 
the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
Whilst the loan is still in existence time under the Limitation Act doesnt begin to run so Mrs 
B and Mr H can still make a claim under this s140A CCA. The terms of the section are wide 
so could include the misrepresentations Mrs B and Mr H say were made to them to induce 
them into entering into the contract. A misrepresentation in law is a statement of fact or law 
made by one party to a contract to the other that:
isnt true; and
has the result that the person to whom its made enters into the contractSo far as the timeshare agreement is concerned Mrs B and Mr H assert that their purchase 
was of week 50 of the apartment, but that they were told by the Supplier on purchase that 
should the week not be available they would be able to schedule any other weeks available 
during that period. They say that when they arrived back home they tried to arrange a 
booking for the following year during school holidays or alternative weeks when they could 
travel, but were unsuccessful. So they say that that representation wasnt true. In the 
meantime they say they were continually pursued for maintenance fees and eventually 
instructed a US attorney to get a deed of release.
The contract was for week 50. Mrs B and Mr H say they were told other weeks were 
available but they were not. Unfortunately theres insufficient evidence to back up what they 
say. Ive seen no other evidence that the contract week wasnt available or that any 
guarantee or assurance was given that alternative weeks would be available. 
And as Im not persuaded that theres any other reason why the debtor-creditor relationship 
between  Mrs B and Mr H and Shawbrook could be said to have been unfair as a result of its 
own acts and/or omissions and/or those of the Supplier, I dont think its likely that a court 
would come to such a finding either.
administration of the loan
Mrs B and Mr H included in their original complaint to us a complaint about how their loan 
was handled by Shawbrook when they fell into financial difficulty. In January 2017, Mrs B 
and Mr H contacted Shawbrook about difficulty they were having paying the loan. As a 
result, a temporary payment arrangement was agreed for March through to May 2017. But 
Shawbrook didnt tell Mrs B and Mr H that interest would continue to be added to the 
account during that time. And while it offered to pay them £50 in compensation to reflect the 
fact that it should have been clearer about what happened to the monthly repayments at the 
end of the temporary arrangement, I think that, as Mrs B and Mr H kept to the arrangement, 
it wasnt fair to add interest during those months when that wasnt made clear to them. So, I 
think Shawbrook should recalculate the outstanding loan balance so that it no longer 
includes the interest charged during the relevant three months. 
After the temporary arrangement expired, Shawbrook attempted to reach a more long-term 
agreement with Mrs B and Mr H but couldnt do so and the loan was defaulted in October 
2017. I understand that from then, no further interest has been added to the loan, nor have 
any further payments been made. With that said, Shawbrook will no doubt be aware of its 
obligation under the CONC (Consumer Credit) Rules to treat its customers in default or in 
arrears difficulties with forbearance and due consideration. And I hope it will consider its 
obligations under CONC with that being the case when it comes to the repayment of what 
remains of the loan balance.
Putting things right
I uphold the complaint insofar as it relates to Shawbrooks temporary payment arrangement 
and require Shawbrook to recalculate the outstanding balance of Mrs B and Mr Hs loan so 
that it no longer includes the following interest charges:
March 2017 £119.66
April 2017 £117.04
May 2017 £121.33
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Shawbrook to provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman