DRN-2090685
The complaint
Mr O has complained about National Westminster Bank Plc treated him in respect of a 
dispute with a third party.
What happened
Mr O had fraud claim raised against him, but he feels this was a buyer-seller dispute, so 
shouldnt have been treated as fraud. He feels that NatWest have acted in a discriminatory 
way and are systemically racist. When NatWest called him, he was extremely unhappy with 
the line of questioning. He felt he was being victimised. Ultimately, NatWest sent the 
disputed money - £450 - back to the buyers bank.
Unfortunately, this was incorrect, which NatWest accepted. It awarded Mr O the £450, plus 
8% interest. It also paid him £50 compensation.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, and considered that the award that 
had been made was fair. As regards discrimination, he said that this would be a matter for a 
court to decide.
Initially the case was closed, but on reflection, Mr O decided hed like the complaint to be 
passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr O is very upset about what happened, and I can understand why. Im sorry 
he has been through what was a very unpleasant experience.
NatWest accepted that things didnt go as they should, and awarded Mr O his £450 back, 
with interest, and £50 compensation. Im satisfied this was the right thing to do. It put Mr O 
back in the position he should have been in, and also recognised that hed suffered trouble 
and upset.
Ive carefully considered what Mr O has said about discrimination. Its not my role to 
determine whether or not this happened  thats the role of a court. However, I can consider 
whether NatWest treated Mr O fairly. And Im satisfied that it looked into his complaint and 
awarded compensation, as I set out above. I think this was the right thing to do. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied that the £450, plus interest, and £50 compensation already paid is fair in the 
circumstances. So Im not requiring NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
Its my final decision that the £450, plus interest, and £50 compensation already paid by 
National Westminster Bank Plc is fair. Im not requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman