DRN-3173375
The complaint
Mr F complains that Santander UK Plc repeatedly sent his account statements to his 
previous address even after he told them he no longer lives there. 
Mr F wants Santander to stop sending him any mail and to remove his details from their 
systems. He would also like compensation for the distress caused by having sensitive mail 
sent to the wrong address.
What happened
Santander sent mail for Mr F to his previous address. Fortunately, the current occupiers 
passed this on to him. 
Mr F contacted Santander to tell them to stop sending his mail to his previous address. 
Santander asked him for a new address, but Mr F wanted his mail to go to the firm dealing 
with his trust deed. He didnt have those details at the time so couldnt give Santander an 
address that they could use for him. 
Santander say that they didnt hear from Mr F again until he complained that they were still 
sending mail to his previous address. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. They said that they couldnt remove an address from 
the customers records unless it was being replaced by another address. So, the address on 
their system remained Mr Fs previous address. 
They did, however, place a mail block on Mr Fs profile but pointed out that these blocks 
didnt stop collections letters as they were a regulatory requirement which will always be 
issued to the last address that was provided to them.
Mr F wasnt happy with this outcome, so he came to us. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint. He found that Santander couldnt stop 
collections letters being sent to Mr Fs previous address as this was the last address that 
they had for him. 
Mr F wasnt happy with this outcome, so the complaint has now come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mr F wont be happy with my decision as I cant see that Santander have done 
anything wrong. I will explain why.
I can see that post has been going to Mr Fs previous address. I can understand that this is 
distressing for Mr F due to the sensitive nature of the correspondence. 
I can see that Mr F did contact Santander to ask them to stop sending correspondence to his 
previous address as this is in the banks notes on Mr Fs file. But I can also see that 
Santander noted that Mr F was going to provide them with an address to use which he didnt 
have when he called. This didnt happen as there are no records of Mr F calling them back 
with the address to use. But, Santander did place a mail block on Mr Fs account as 
requested. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Fs credit card state under point 11.3 You must have a UK
residential address. You must tell us if you change your address or contact details or if you 
or an additional cardholder change name.
So, I think that Santander could leave Mr Fs previous address on their records as they 
hadnt been told of the new address. 
I can see that collections letters continued to be sent to Mr Fs previous address, but I accept 
that Santander have an obligation to send collections letters to the address that they hold on 
file. Until Mr F provided a new address, they had no option but to continue sending these 
letters to Mr Fs previous address. 
Mr F then provided Santander with his current address, but he complained that Santander 
had got this address wrong and his post had gone to different addresses. I can see that 
Santander has used the address shown on Mr Fs hand-written letter. Unfortunately, its not 
easy to read the number of the house provided. I think that it is for Mr F to contact Santander 
and go through the procedure they require him to go through to change the address 
properly. 
Im sorry that this isnt the decision that Mr F hoped for, but I hope that Ive clearly explained 
why I cant ask Santander to do anything else. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Rita Parmar
Ombudsman