DRN-2032239
The complaint
Mr D complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc trading as M&S Bank (M&S) 
took an unreasonable length of time returning a payment he had mistakenly sent to his credit 
card account with them. 
What happened
Mr D has a credit card account with M&S and in error sent a payment to this account from 
another of his credit card accounts. He instructed his bank to recall the payment, but it took 
nearly a year for the funds to eventually be credited back to his credit card account. Mr D 
says that during this time M&S gave him misleading information about the whereabouts of 
the funds and had to contact them on many occasions to establish where his payment was, 
often without a reply. Mr D says that because of the time it took for M&S to eventually sort 
out the problem, he had incurred interest charges, caused him a great deal of stress and 
affected his credit rating.  Mr D was looking for a higher compensation payment than the 
£125 already paid to him by M&S.
M&S says that while they accept it provided a poor service to Mr D during the time of the 
missing recalled payment, it had sent back the payment to the Bank from where it was sent, 
and it was that bank who are at fault for taking so long to credit Mr D with the payment. M&S 
say that the compensation for the inconvenience it caused of £125, was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Mr D  wasnt happy with their response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
She felt that M&S had correctly carried out the process of returning the payment and it 
wasnt their fault the receiving bank had held on to these funds for such a long time. The 
investigator says that M&S made a payment of £125 for the inconvenience caused to Mr D 
for the poor and misleading  communication with him and felt that this was a fair amount in 
the circumstances. 
Mr D wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain the 
reasons for my decision. 
When considering Mr Ds complaint, I have looked at whether M&S acted unreasonably 
when they processed the return of the payment back to the originating bank and whether 
their actions contributed to any financial disadvantage to him as a result. 
I can understand the frustration Mr D experienced, not knowing where his money was and 
his concerns why it took so long for the monies to eventually be returned to his credit card 
account.
I have been provided with details of the communication between Mr D and M&S  and this 
shows they were in regular contact by means of secure messaging. During the course of 
these messages M&S had been unclear at times regarding the process and exactly where 
the funds were, and they have acknowledged this.  To compensate for the poor service 
provided, M&S have made a payment to Mr D of £125  and I am satisfied that is a 
reasonable sum in this context.
I am pleased to see that since the date of the investigators view, sent to Mr D,  the funds 
have now been credited back to his originating credit card account. 
There were a number of key dates surrounding the whereabouts of these funds and its 
worth looking at these when understanding the timescales and parties involved.
This timeline is taken from dates of emails and documents provided to this service. 
 End of  January 2019  Mr D sends, in error, monies to his M&S credit card account 
from another credit card account provider.
 Mid-February 2019  Payment recall request received by M&S from credit card 
providers bank  (B1). 
 Late  February 2019  M&S wrote to Mr D for authority to return the funds. 
 End of March 2019  - Having not heard back from Mr D, M&S via their clearing bank 
returned the funds to the credit card account it originally came from, B1. This payment was 
rejected, and M&Ss clearing bank requested from B1 where the funds should now be sent. 
 Late April 2019  M&Ss clearing bank send the funds back to B1 using new account 
details provided by B1.
 Mid  November 2019  B1  forward the funds to the credit card providers new 
bankers (B2).
 End of  January 2020  B2 credit Mr Ds originating credit card providers account.  
What is important here is the time taken for Mr D to have been re-funded with the monies he 
sent in error. From the evidence I have seen M&S initially refunded the monies back to B1 
as this is where the monies came from  I am satisfied that was a reasonable action for them 
to take. What M&S didnt know at that time was B1 were no longer the credit card providers 
bankers, from the information provided to me Mr Ds credit card provider, who sent the funds 
originally to M&S, had changed banks during the process of recalling the funds. This would, 
in all likelihood, have contributed to the confusion, delay and why the funds took so long to 
eventually be returned.
When this payment was rejected by B1, M&S were advised by them to send the monies to 
another account within the same bank, which they did. What happened here is that after the 
funds were sent back to B1 it sat with that bank for several months. No evidence has been 
provided to understand why it took so long for B1 to credit the funds to the correct bank B2 
or why B2 took two months to credit Mr Ds originating credit card account. Looking at the 
secure messages between both parties, I have seen M&S did suggest to Mr D  he should 
contact his credit card provider to establish the whereabouts of the funds.It follows, I am satisfied, if there is a failure in promptly recrediting Mr Ds credit card 
providers account, M&S cant be held responsible for this.  
I was sorry to hear that Mr D says the result has impacted on his financial situation, 
unfortunately, I have to look at the complaint before me. While M&S could have 
communicated the whereabouts of the funds clearer to Mr D, I cant see they can be held 
responsible for the other banks actions in dealing with the refund of these monies or any 
financial disadvantage caused to Mr D as a result. 
I know Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, but for the reasons given before I will not 
be asking anymore of M&S here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman