DRN-4039060
The complaint
Mr H complains about a fee applied to his account by Bank of Scotland plc trading as
Halifax, which he says arose because of a delay in his account being switched to another
provider. He says his credit file has been negatively affected.
What happened
Mr H held a current account with Halifax. In January 2022, he applied to switch the account
over to another provider, which Ill call N. Halifax wrote to Mr H a few days later confirming
the switch request. The switch completed in early February 2022. But Mr H says it wasnt
completed within the guaranteed seven working day timescale.
When the switch completed, Halifax wrote to Mr H saying that there was an outstanding
balance on his account. The amount outstanding was an account fee which was applied two
days before the switch completed. Mr H complained to Halifax.
He said that, if the switch had completed within the guaranteed timescale, the fee wouldnt
have arisen. He said that Halifax had enough notice of the switch and shouldnt have
charged the fee when it knew he was switching to N. He said the delay in the switch
completing wasnt his fault, so he shouldnt have to pay the fee. He also said the amount of
the fee was trivial and it wasnt reasonable for Halifax to seek payment from him. He wanted
Halifax to waive the fee and stop contacting him about it.
Halifax acknowledged the complaint by text message. Mr H wasnt happy about that and
said he hadnt agreed to Halifax contacting him that way. Halifax said it has to keep
customers updated about their complaints and its process is to do this by text message.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. It said that N didnt start the switch application until 26
January 2022. It said that the account fee was applied on 1 February 2022 because the
switch hadnt taken place by then and didnt complete until a couple of days later. Halifax
said that all complaints about the switch needed to be directed to N as they were responsible
for carrying it out.
Halifax said it was obliged to keep Mr H informed about any overdrawn balances and thats
why it had written to him. But it said it had paid the account fee as a gesture of goodwill,
which should stop any further reminders being sent to Mr H.
Mr H wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so he came to this service. He said that, if the
fault for the switch delay lay with N, it wasnt his fault. So, he said he didnt owe anything to
Halifax.
In June 2022, Mr H became aware that his credit score had been adversely affected and
said this was because Halifax was reporting an unpaid debt to the Credit Reference
Agencies. At that point, Mr H paid the account fee. But he wanted Halifax to reimburse him
and compensate him for the negative impact on his credit score.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 February 2023 explaining that I wasnt going to uphold 
the complaint. Halifax accepted the provisional decision. Mr H didnt accept it and provided 
further comments for me to consider. He also made a proposal for resolution of the 
complaint, setting out the redress he would accept from Halifax in full and final settlement. 
Halifax didnt accept the proposal, saying that the account fee was valid but had been 
waived as a gesture of goodwill. Im now making a final decision about the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about everything again and considered the comments provided by Mr H in 
response to the provisional decision. Im sorry to disappoint him, but I havent changed my 
mind about the appropriate outcome here. I dont think Halifax needs to do anything, so Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. My reasons are set out below.
When a customer switches their current account, its the new bank which handles the
process. Here, the switch was handled by N. Mr H says he applied for the switch on 20
January 2022. The information Ive seen shows that Halifax received the switch request on
26 January 2022. I dont find that Halifax was responsible for any delay in implementing Mr
Hs instructions. If Mr H has any ongoing concerns about the timing of the switch, he should
raise them with N.
The switch completed on 3 February 2022. Until that time, Mr H continued to hold an
account with Halifax. The account continued to operate under the terms and conditions
which Mr H had agreed to when opening it. Under those terms, Mr H was liable to pay a
monthly fee for maintaining the account. As the account was still active on 1 February 2022,
I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to apply the fee on that date.
Mr H says that the amount of the fee is trivial and that Halifax was vexatiously seeking
payment from him. The amount of the fee is small. But that doesnt mean its not due. And it
doesnt make it unreasonable for Halifax to seek payment. I find that the fee is payable
under the terms and conditions of the account. And I dont think it was unreasonable for
Halifax to request payment from Mr H.
Mr H says he wouldnt have been charged the fee if the switch had completed earlier. That
seems likely. But I dont find that Halifax caused a delay in the switch taking place. So I dont
think it acted unreasonably by applying the fee. The fee arises out of Mr Hs banking
relationship with Halifax. If Mr H thinks it was incurred as a result of delay by N, it is open to
him to raise that with N and request reimbursement from them. But I find that responsibility
for paying the fee to Halifax lay with Mr H in the first instance.
In any event, Halifax agreed to waive the fee as a gesture of goodwill. I think that was a fair
approach. This was confirmed in Halifaxs Final Response Letter. The letter said that Halifax
was declining the complaint but that it had paid the fee as a gesture of goodwill.
The letter didnt say how the fee had been paid. I think a reasonable interpretation of the
letter is that Halifax had credited Mr Hs account with the amount of the fee and there was no
longer an outstanding balance. That would have meant no further action was needed on Mr
Hs part. But that isnt what happened. Mr Hs statements show that the fee wasnt credited
by Halifax. It remained outstanding and the account was overdrawn by that amount from 1
February 2022 until June 2022, when Mr H paid it.
Halifax has now confirmed that it issued a cheque for the amount of the fee. Im satisfied thata cheque was raised at the end of February 2022. But the information Ive seen indicates it
wasnt cashed and has now been cancelled due to its age. Ive seen Halifaxs notes detailing
the correspondence sent to Mr H by the complaints department. Halifax has also provided
copies of the letters it sent to Mr H about the outstanding fee. But I havent seen a letter
enclosing the cheque or any notes confirming a letter was sent to Mr H about a cheque. I
cant safely conclude that the cheque was sent to Mr H.
Mr H says that Halifaxs decision to send him a cheque was nonsensical. He says it would 
have been far simpler for Halifax to credit the fee to his account, which would have resolved 
the issue immediately. He suggests that Halifax was trying to make things as difficult for him 
as possible. I think it would have made much more sense for Halifax to credit the account 
rather than send a cheque. But I dont think this was a deliberate ploy to make things difficult 
for Mr H. The refund was a goodwill gesture, not something Halifax was bound to do. So it 
was up to Halifax how it chose to implement it.
Mr H says he understood from Halifaxs letter that it had credited the fee to his account. I 
think thats a reasonable interpretation of the Final Response Letter. Based on that letter, I 
think Mr H reasonably could have thought he didnt need to take any further action. 
However, I dont think Mr H reasonably could have thought after March 2022 that no further 
action was required by him. Thats because Halifax wrote to him in early March and again at 
the end of March asking him to pay the outstanding balance. Mr H referred the complaint to 
this service in May 2022 and said that he wanted Halifax to waive the amount it was claiming 
from him. So, I find that he was aware the balance remained outstanding. Mr H referred to 
Halifax sending him nuisance letters. But I think it was reasonable for Halifax to write to him 
about the outstanding balance and its what Id expect to happen.
Mr H became aware in June 2022 that his credit score had worsened. He says this was
because of the way Halifax was reporting the account. Halifax said at the time that it hadnt
reported the overdrawn balance. I asked Halifax about this again when I reviewed the
complaint. It confirmed that it did report late payment markers on the account in April and 
May 2022. It provided evidence of this. The account was reported as settled in June 2022, 
which is correct as Mr H paid off the balance that month. Ive considered whether it was 
reasonable for Halifax to report the late payment markers. I think it was  Ill explain why.
Halifax wrote to Mr H twice in March 2022 requesting payment. The second of these letters
said that his credit score could be affected if he didnt pay. Halifax sent Mr H two further
letters in June 2022. These also mentioned the potential impact on his credit score. The first
late payment marker was recorded in April 2022. So, I find that there was time for Mr H to
pay before the adverse reporting began. If hed made payment (or contacted Halifax to query
whether the goodwill gesture mentioned in the Final Response Letter had been paid) when
he received the March letters, I think the adverse entries would have been avoided.
Mr H is unhappy that his credit score has been affected over what he describes as a trivial
matter and sum of money. I can understand his point of view. But, as I have explained, I find
that the sum was due to Halifax even though it was a small amount. 
Mr H says that Halifax abused its position by making adverse reports to the Credit Reference 
Agencies, forcing him to pay the fee. He says that Halifaxs objective was to cause him 
damage. I dont find that to be the case. Im satisfied that the fee wasnt paid. I find that Mr H 
knew it was outstanding and had the opportunity to discuss this with Halifax before any 
adverse reports were made. Halifax has a duty to report correct information to the Credit 
Reference Agencies. I find that the information it reported here was correct. In the 
circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for Halifax to report this information.Mr H is unhappy that Halifax sent him text messages about the progress of his complaint.
Our Investigator has already explained that we cant look at that issue because its purely to
do with the way the complaint was handled. That isnt a regulated activity and doesnt fall
within the remit of this service
In conclusion, Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise that Halifax had offered to pay 
the account fee as a gesture of goodwill, which didnt happen. If Halifax still wishes to make 
the gesture, it can do so. But Im not going to ask it to do anything to settle the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman