DRN-2188013
The complaint
Miss C complains that Listers Group Limited misled her about the finance terms when she 
took a car on hire purchase.
What happened
In January 2018 Miss W took an ex-showroom car from Listers; at the same time she 
returned a car she had had under an earlier finance arrangement. Listers acted both as the 
car dealership and as arranger of the hire purchase agreement under which Miss W took the 
car from another financial business.  
Towards the end of 2019 Miss W was considering taking out a mortgage. She says her 
mortgage adviser suggested that her car finance agreement was expensive and ought to be 
reviewed. Having looked at the agreement, Miss W thought she identified some 
discrepancies; these included a £250 administration fee and an issue with the £2,000 
deposit shed paid. She also felt that she was paying a lot for a car that wasnt worth the 
price.
Miss W contacted Listers, but it said that the documentation was accurate and reflected what 
had been agreed at the time. On the specific points she made, it said that the administration 
fee was an internal arrangement (and in any event was only £2.50, not £250) and that the 
£2,000 payment Miss W had made was to cover the shortfall under the previous finance 
arrangement, rather than being a deposit. 
Miss W referred the matter to this service, and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. He concluded, in summary, that the paperwork had been clear and properly set 
out the arrangements to which Miss W had agreed. Miss W didnt accept those findings and 
asked that an ombudsman review them.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Listers has provided a copy of the invoice for the car. It recorded that the total price of 
£17,000 included a load liner, fabric protection, fuel and a vehicle licence. It also recorded 
that £9,234.27 was due under Miss Ws existing agreement, her existing car had a part 
exchange value of £7,234.27 and that Listers had received a payment of £500. That left 
£1,500 due from Miss W and the cash price of £17,000 due from the business which was to 
enter into the hire purchase agreement with Miss W. 
That documentation does in my view reflect the fact that Miss W did  as she says  pay 
£2,000 in cash. It also reflects that that payment has been properly accounted for, albeit as a 
payment of the balance left on her previous agreement rather than as a deposit on the new 
car.   
Listers also provided a copy of a customer declaration which Miss W signed to say that 
shed been given an adequate explanation of the finance for the car. Whilst thats not 
necessarily decisive, I think it unlikely that Miss W would have signed that document if she 
had any reservations or outstanding questions about how the figures had been arrived at. In 
any event, I think the invoice itself set out the figures clearly; they were consistent with the 
figures in the hire purchase agreement itself. I note that it was nearly two years before Miss 
W raised any issue with the arrangements. 
I note what Miss W has said about the administration fee. Because its been added by hand, 
it isnt clear whether it says £250 or £2.50. On balance though I think it does say £2.50; but I 
also accept that its a refence to an internal payment and not one that Miss W has made. 
Miss W has also commented that she doesnt feel the car or the agreement were good value 
for money. That may be so, but Im satisfied she agreed to the price and the terms of the hire 
purchase agreement and that Listers properly explained them. I cant properly uphold Miss 
Ws complaint because she feels she might have got a better deal elsewhere. 
Equally, whilst I note what Miss W has said about how the complaint was handled, I dont 
believe I can properly require Listers to compensate her for that. 
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I dont require Listers Group Limited to do 
anything further to resolve Miss Ws complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept or reject my decision before 
12 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman