DRN-4428034
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk
(MoneyBoat) provided him with loans even though he had outstanding payday loans at the
time and so these MoneyBoat loans werent affordable for him.
What happened
Mr K was granted six loans and, Ive outlined his borrowing history in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £400.00 08/02/2018 25/05/2018 4 £143.66
2 £400.00 14/06/2018 24/08/2018 3 £171.67
3 £1,000.00 11/09/2018 24/12/2018 4 £356.73
break in lending 
4 £800.00 20/07/2020 28/08/2020 3 £338.35
5 £800.00 11/09/2020 24/12/2020 4 £290.28
6 £800.00 21/01/2021 outstanding 2 £542.45
MoneyBoat has also said that Mr K made a number of further loan applications, but these
were declined because Mr K already had loans four and five running.
MoneyBoat considered the complaint it received from Mr K about the sale of the loans and
concluded it had made a reasonable decision to lend because it had carried out
proportionate checks which showed it Mr K could afford them. It did make a goodwill offer to
reduce the outstanding balance on the final loan. Unhappy with this response, Mr K referred
his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
After the complaint was referred here, MoneyBoat said the offer it had made in the final
response letter was no longer available to Mr K.
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, who didnt uphold it. She concluded
MoneyBoat had carried out proportionate checks before it advanced these loans and due to
the break in lending there wasnt anything to suggest the loans would be unsustainable for
Mr K.
Mr K didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment and instead asked for an ombudsmans
decision. 
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me and I issued a provisional 
decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold Mr Ks complaint because 
I wasnt able to say what MoneyBoat may have seen had it carried out what I would consider 
to be proportionate checks.  
Both parties were asked to provide any new submissions as soon as possible, but in any 
event, no later than 31 October 2023. 
MoneyBoat said it didnt have anything new to add and Mr K didnt respond to the provisional 
decision. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and forms part of this final 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr K could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ks
income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr K. These factors include:
Mr K having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr K having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or 
was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr K coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also suggestive 
of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr K. The adjudicator didnt think it had
reached this point and I agree, considering the break in lending between loans three and
four.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr K could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr K was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ks complaint.
Loans 1  3
Before these loans were approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr K for details of his income, which
he declared as being £3,300 per month for the loans in this lending chain. MoneyBoat says
the declared income figure was verified using a credit reference agency.
As part of the applications, Mr K was asked for details of his monthly expenditure, which
included asking for details of credit commitments, food, transport, other and rent / mortgage.
Mr K declared monthly outgoings of £930 for loans one and three and £830 per month for
loan two.As part of the application, and from my understanding of MoneyBoats processes, it wouldve
used information from the credit search results to assess the figures provided by
Mr K. Following this further check, MoneyBoat didnt make any adjustments towards his
expenditure for loans one and three. But it did increase Mr Ks outgoings by £20 per month
for loan two.
MoneyBoat says Mr K declared that he lived at home with parents and so that is why he had
minimal monthly repayments towards rent or a mortgage. I agree, with MoneyBoat in so far
that this would lead to Mr K having fewer concerns about paying priority bills such as council
tax and so this could leave him with more disposable income. So, I dont think MoneyBoats
reasoning around this point is incorrect.
Before these loans were approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has
provided a copy of the results it received from the credit reference agency for each loan.
For loan one, the headline figures dont look particularly concerning. Mr K owed other
creditors around £8,000 and was utilising around 44% of his available credit on revolving
credit and or budget accounts. It knew there wasnt any County Court Judgements and
Mr K had only defaulted on one account in June 2017  so just under a year before the loan
was advanced.
However, there were six active credit accounts but two of them were reporting what I
consider to be concerning information because two were being reported as in delinquency.
Both delinquent accounts were credit cards, one was currently showing as 5 months in
arrears. And looking at the repayment history the arrears had increased each month for the
last five months, indicating that Mr K wasnt making any or smaller repayments towards it
since August 2017.
The other credit card was showing as 2 months in arrears, and again, these had been
reported in the two months before the loan was advanced, and by the time the loan one was
granted, the balance of this credit card was above the credit limit.
So, one third of Mr Ks active credit accounts were in arrears, and these arrears had been
building in the months before the first loan was advanced and so to me is a clear sign that
Mr K was likely having some form of financial difficulties. At a minimum it was demonstrating
Mr K struggling to meet his existing credit commitments.
So, I do think, given the credit check results MoneyBoat may have wanted to have made
further enquires with Mr K to establish what was leading him to enter arrears on his accounts
for all loans in this lending chain.
MoneyBoat couldve gone about doing this a number of ways, it couldve asked to see bank
statements, Mr Ks credit file or have asked him questions as to why he appeared to be
having difficulties managing his existing credit card accounts.
However, just because I think further checks need to be carried out that isnt the end of the
matter, for me to be able to uphold Mr Ks complaint about these loans, I would also have to
be satisfied that had MoneyBoat carried out further checks it wouldve likely discovered
these loans were unaffordable for him.
Mr K hasnt provided copies of his bank statements, credit file or any other information from
around the time these loans were approved. And without anything from him, I cant conclude
what MoneyBoat may have discovered had it carried out better checks. So essentially, I am
saying that MoneyBoat should have done more checks but I am not satisfied due to the lack
of evidence that these checks would have prevented MoneyBoat from agreeing to these
loans.
Given this, I am therefore intending to not uphold Mr Ks complaint about loans 1  3.
Loans 4  6There was a break in lending of around 19 months after Mr K repaid loan three and before
he was advanced loan four. This amount of time is in my view sufficient for MoneyBoat to
have treated Mr Ks application afresh and as if he was a new customer.
This means, that while loan four was the fourth loan advanced, it was actually the first loan
of a new lending chain. So, these loans become loans 1  3, in a new chain and Ive thought
about that while considering what proportionate checks may be.
MoneyBoat carried out the same sort of checks before these loans were approved as it had
done so in the first chain. This time for loan four Mr K declared a monthly income of £4,600
and then £5,500 per month for loans five and six.
In terms of outgoings, Mr K declared his outgoings were £1,150 for loan four, £2,050 for loan
five and then £950 for loan six. MoneyBoat didnt make any adjustment to the figures
provided by Mr K. It therefore reasonably believed Mr K had sufficient disposable income to
afford each of his loan repayments.
As before, before each loan was carried out a credit search was conducted and MoneyBoat
has provided the results that it received.
For loan four, Mr Ks overall indebtedness had reduced to £2,249, he had six active
accounts and had only opened one new credit account within the last six months. But there were 
three new defaults, one default had been recorded while Mr K was repaying
loan three, another had been recorded during the break in borrowing between loans three
and four and the final default had been recorded only two months before loan four was
advanced.
The recent default was related to a loan and the defaulted balance was £2,068. I do think
this time that MoneyBoat needed to have paid attention to the defaults, because there was a
history of Mr K defaulting regularly within the previous two years. In addition, Mr K had
shown that he had struggled to pay a loan in the months leading up to loan four being
advanced.
Most of Mr Ks active accounts were credit cards which were all within their credit limit. But
one card showed Mr K had recent repayment difficulties in January and February 2020
because the account entered arrears and was being marked as a 2  which indicated two
months of arrears.
So, for loan four, MoneyBoat knew that Mr K had been having recent payment difficulties
because one account was defaulted in May 2020, and he had also had previous difficulties
at the turn of the year with a credit card.
In addition, the credit report showed that within the previous year Mr K had settled at least
eight payday loan or home credit accounts. Which shows, during the gap in lending when he
wasnt borrowing from MoneyBoat Mr K still had a need for credit because he was still
borrowing from other lenders.
A similar picture is seen in the credit check results which MoneyBoat received before loan
six was advanced. The same number of defaults are showing however, new adverse
information had been reported about a credit card  because by now Mr K was £40 above
the credit limit. And the evidence from the credit searches showed that Mr K had continued
to seek payday loans or instalment loans from other lenders.
Mr K had repaid three such accounts between August and December 2020 (in addition to
the two MoneyBoat loans he repaid in that period). So MoneyBoat, was on reasonable
notice that Mr K was not only continuing to have repayment difficulties, but he still had a
need for high-cost credit.
For much the same reasons as the first loan chain, I still think MoneyBoat wouldve wantedto have carried out further checks to find out what was actually going on with Mr Ks finances
given adverse information continued to be reported and he was clearly still using this type of
credit from other providers.
However, as before just because I think further checks need to be carried out that isnt the
end of the matter, for me to be able to uphold Mr Ks complaint about these loans, I would
also have to be satisfied that had MoneyBoat carried out further checks it wouldve likely
discovered these loans were unaffordable for him.
I dont have any documentation from Mr K covering the period of these loans, and therefore I
cant base, on what I currently have to hand, uphold his complaint about this chain of lending
and therefore I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any new submissions, I see no reason to depart from the findings I 
reached in the provisional decision. I still dont think the checks MoneyBoat carried out 
before the loans were granted were sufficient. However, I havent received any information 
from Mr K to show what MoneyBoat may have seen had it carried out proportionate checks. 
I therefore, do not uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman