DRN-2411096
The complaint
Mrs E complains Lloyds Bank PLC hasnt refunded her the money she lost as the result of a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator - when he wrote to the 
bank upholding Mrs Es complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
Mrs E was tricked into sending a scammer a Faster Payments transfer in the sum of 
£5,000 on 25 April 2019, and a further £10,000 on 28 June 2019. 
She did so in the belief that she was making an investment with a legitimate 
investment company. This followed a number of telephone conversations with the 
scammer, and her receipt of documentation which appears to have closely mimicked 
the literature of a legitimate investment firm. Shed been looking to make an such an 
investment to get better returns, and with her income being limited as a widow and 
carer in her seventies, the opportunity offered was especially appealing. She was led 
to believe shed been specially contacted, due to some shares shed previously 
inherited and which the scammer appeared to know about.
Mrs E initially visited a Lloyds branch to make the payment on 24 April 2019. Lloyds 
says its staff member thought it very likely this was a scam and didnt proceed with 
the transaction. Lloyds says Mrs E was read a scam script and told to check it was a 
legitimate investment. But Mrs E explained to our investigator she had little 
knowledge of investments, and that she wasnt told of any specific steps she should  
take to check the legitimacy of the investment by the branch. When she returned 
home, she was called again by the scammers and they were able to reassure her it 
was a misunderstanding and that all was in order.
The following day, on 25 April, Mrs E returned to the branch. Mrs E recalls the 
payment of £5,000 being processed by a different staff member without further 
queries.
The scammers continued to contact Mrs E, offering further investment opportunities. 
On 28 June, Mrs E visited the branch, and made a payment of £10,000. Lloyds says 
on this occasion Mrs E was asked about the concerns noted on 24 April, from when 
shed originally attempted to send a payment. Lloyds says Mrs E confirmed she was 
happy to proceed, and that Lloyds could delete the note.
The scam came to light around two months later, when Mrs E contacted the 
company whose details the scammers had mirrored and was told the people she had 
been dealing with had no connection to the legitimate firm.
Mrs E notified Lloyds of the scam, but no funds remained to be recovered. As a 
result, she has lost all that she invested.
Lloyds considered Mrs Es case under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM). 
This is a voluntary scheme Lloyds has signed up to, designed to reimburse customers that 
have fallen victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code is for a customer to 
be refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer hasnt met 
their requisite level of care under the CRM Code. In making such an assessment, a firm may 
consider whether it can establish that the customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
Lloyds declined to refund Mrs E. It said it had no reason to prevent Mrs E sending either 
payment. It said Mrs E didnt take enough care to confirm the payee was genuine, such as 
by confirming the investment was with an FCA regulated company before sending the 
money.
Mrs E brought her complaint to our service as she was unhappy with Lloyds response. One 
of our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator noted that the initial payment pre-dated the introduction of the CRM Code, 
so considered what should have happened based on was expected of Lloyds before the 
CRM Code took effect. He thought that when Mrs E visited Lloyds branch for the second 
time - on 25 April - Lloyds ought to have done more to satisfy itself Mrs E wasnt about to be 
scammed (particularly having identified this as highly likely on the previous day).
He thought if Lloyds had taken further steps - through further questioning Mrs E, or by 
ensuring she knew some specific steps she should take to ensure the legitimacy of the 
investment - Lloyds would have identified the investment was a scam and so prevented 
Mrs E from making both payments. He further said that Lloyds hadnt persuaded him it could 
establish Mrs E failed to meet her requisite level of case under the CRM Code and so the 
second payment ought to have been refunded in any event.
The investigator concluded that Lloyds ought to have prevented the payments from being 
made, and so prevented the losses Mrs E incurred. He said Lloyds should now settle the 
complaint by fully refunding the amount Mrs E lost, together with interest on the amount of 
each payment at the previously applicable account rate from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement.
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 14 October 2020 with a deadline of 
28 October 2020 for Lloyds to let him know if it agreed with his recommendations. That 
deadline has now long passed, and, while Lloyds has since told the investigator it is still 
reviewing the matter, it has still failed to provide its response to the investigators 
assessment.
As such, the case has been escalated to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it.  Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
And that
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may: (1) proceed 
with consideration of the complaint; and (2) include provision for any material distress 
or material inconvenience caused by that failure in any award which he decides to 
make.
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of a response from Lloyds to the investigators 
assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already 
have and/or to take account of Lloyds failure to respond to the investigators opinion. 
Ive considered whether Lloyds ought to have taken further steps on 25 April, when Mrs E 
made the first payment, and in doing so, would have prevented the scam. I believe Lloyds 
ought to have prevented this loss, for substantively the same reasons as the investigator has 
already explained. So, it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to redress the loss she 
incurred in making this payment.
To reiterate in summary the investigators findings, the bank was the professional in financial 
matters; while Mrs E was the layperson. Lloyds shouldnt have simply allowed Mrs E to 
make the payment because she was happy to do so. I cannot overlook that Lloyds says its 
staff member had been almost certain this was a scam the previous day  it had a duty to do 
more here to reassure itself that Mrs E was not about to fall victim to a scam when she 
returned the following day. Had Lloyds suggested to Mrs E that she check the company on 
the FCAs website (or even done so itself) the scam would likely have been uncovered in an 
unambiguous way and the first payment prevented.
For the same reasons as the investigator explained, I think this would have meant the 
second payment would not have been made either - thereby preventing that further loss. 
I have nevertheless gone on to consider whether, in the event the second payment not been 
prevented, Mrs E should have been fully reimbursed for it under the CRM Code when she 
notified Lloyds of the scam,. In doing so, Ive considered whether or not she met her 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. I believe she did, and for substantively the 
same reasons the investigator has already explained, so it would have been fair and 
reasonable for Mrs E to have received a full refund at the time Lloyds considered her case - 
had the scam not been prevented from the outset.
Although most of Mrs Es distress or inconvenience has likely resulted from the criminal acts 
of the fraudsters, I think Lloyds could have done more to prevent the scam and protect her 
from the subsequent impact of this, as set out above, and its statutory duty to co-operate 
with our complaints process (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook). 
I therefore consider £250 compensation for distress or inconvenience to be appropriate. Im 
aware that compensation hasnt previously been awarded. But given where we are in the 
complaint journey, and the fact compensation for distress and inconvenience is a matter of 
discretion, I believe it should fairly be paid in this case.Putting things right 
For the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Mrs E ought 
reasonably to be fully refunded. I therefore direct Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mrs E:
the £15,000 she lost as a result of the scam, less any sums Lloyds has already been 
able to return to Mrs E. It should do so within 28 days of receiving notification of 
Mrs Es acceptance of my final decision; plus,
interest at the account rates that would have applied to each payment sum had it not 
been withdrawn due to the scam (less any tax properly deductible) from the 
respective date of each payment until the date of settlement; and,
£250 compensation for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days of receiving 
notification of her acceptance of my final decision, failing which interest will 
thereafter accrue at the same rate until payment.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Es complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021
. 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman