DRN-3999371
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) dealt with a claim he made on 
his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A had comprehensive motor insurance with Aviva. The policy renewed in January 2022.
In November 2022 Mr A hit a log on the dual carriageway he was travelling on. Since his car 
was damaged on the front left hand side Mr A made a claim on his car insurance policy. 
Mr A says Aviva failed to communicate with him on the progress of his claim. There were 
delays when towing his car, and the courtesy car wasnt provided consistently despite the 
claim being ongoing. 
Mr A made a complaint and there was still no progress on his claim. Mr A says almost nine 
weeks after the accident he still hadnt had a resolution to his claim. He says he needs a 
vehicle due to medical issues and since the provision of a courtesy car was inconsistent he 
had to make alternative arrangements to finance a replacement vehicle. 
Mr A says dealing with the claim has caused anxiety and distress. He says he was left 
without a car over the winter period which was particularly difficult since he needed to get to 
his medical appointments. Mr A also says he has had to contact Aviva many times in order 
to chase progress on his claim. 
Mr A wants Aviva to process the claim for the pre-accident value of the car and refund his 
courtesy car premium since this wasnt provided properly. He would also like compensation 
for the impact on his family life and health. So he complained to Aviva. 
Aviva accepted Mr As complaint. Aviva agreed it failed to provide correct instructions to its 
suppliers and didnt keep Mr A updated on the progress of his claim. And so it offered Mr A 
£250 as an apology and paid him a settlement of £12,593 for his car. This included interest. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied with the response he received from Aviva. He said the hire car 
agreement was rescinded twice without explanation. And as a result of the delays he 
purchased a new vehicle only to learn his previous car was repairable; and he would have 
waited for it to be repaired had he been aware. And so Mr A referred his complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him. He said he could see Mr A received a poor 
service and Aviva recognised that. The investigator said when the settlement was paid Aviva 
included 8% simple interest which is what he would have expected. He also said the 
compensation of £250 was in line with what our service would have recommended in a 
similar situation. 
Mr A didnt agree. He said he was asked to return the courtesy car twice even though he 
hadnt received his settlement. There were some points where he was without a courtesy car 
and one was only arranged because he chased Aviva. Mr A says he purchased another car 
because he wasnt able to rely on having a courtesy car which ended up costing him much 
more. He feels £250 doesnt fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Since Mr A didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Im not upholding it. I 
know this will come as a disappointment to Mr A so I have explained my reasoning below. 
My role here is to look at whether Aviva acted in a fair and reasonable manner and within the 
terms and conditions of the policy in the handling of the claim. 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. 
Courtesy car 
The policy says, The length of time a courtesy vehicle is provided depends on whether your 
vehicle is being repaired or not: 
If your vehicle is being repaired by an approved repairer, a courtesy vehicle will be 
provided for the duration of the repairs.
If your vehicle cannot be repaired, or is stolen, a courtesy vehicle will be provided for 
up to 14 days, or until you receive your settlement (whichever is earliest) 
Mr A says he had the courtesy car on 21 November until 19 December. And then again on 
23 December. So he was without a car for a period of 5 days. The policy says a courtesy car 
will be provided for up to 14 days but Mr A had the vehicle for longer. And since there were 
delays in providing Mr A with a valuation for his own car Aviva agreed to extend the 
agreement. I know Mr A said he had to chase Aviva regarding the courtesy car and was 
worried the agreement would be rescinded. But Mr A was provided with the car for longer 
than stipulated by the policy, and so I dont think Aviva have acted unfairly or outside the 
policy terms here. 
Mr A has asked for a refund of the premium he paid for the courtesy car benefit. But since he 
had the benefit of the courtesy car I dont think its fair to ask Aviva to refund him. 
Delay in settlement 
Mr A was initially told his car was a write off despite it being repairable. Aviva accepted this 
and dealt with the claim as a write off. It paid Mr A his settlement and added interest. While I 
understand this was frustrating for Mr A, I think Avivas response was reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
Purchasing a new vehicle 
Mr A says he couldnt rely on the provision of a courtesy car from Aviva and so purchased a 
new vehicle whilst awaiting settlement of the claim. He says as a result he is out of pocket. 
Mr A made the choice to purchase the new vehicle and so I am unable to hold Aviva 
responsible for this. Compensation 
Having reviewed all of the documentation its clear to me an award was due for the distress 
this whole episode caused Mr A. I can see there was confusion over instructions provided to 
Avivas agents, and whether the vehicle was repairable or not. I can see Mr A has been 
frustrated at having to chase Aviva for updates and information. I think this was unfortunate 
but Im pleased Aviva recognised it could have provided a more proactive and transparent 
process and paid £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this 
is a fair award for the level of upset caused during the claim. 
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr A but overall I think Aviva has acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the policy terms and conditions. Where it has accepted a failure 
in service the compensation paid fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr 
A and so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman