DRN-4286394
The complaint
Mr S is concerned that his pension fund lost significant value when he decided to switch 
from The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) to a new provider. He says 
this was despite a significant increase in the stock market over the same period.
What happened
Mr S says he decided to switch his Prudential pension to Vanguard and provided his 
instruction on 7 March 2022. He says at that time his fund was worth £288,000, although he 
hasnt been able to provide evidence showing this was the case.
Prudential has provided screen shots from its system showing that the transfer value of Mr 
Ss fund on 7 March 2022 was £271,285. It says it received a request from Vanguard for the 
switch of his pension on 8 March 2022. The value then was £273,936.
Mr S says that his fund didnt reach his new provider until 21 March 2022. He was 
concerned that over the period of the switch while his funds had been eroded, the FTSE 100 
had increased significantly. He also noted that a second smaller pension that hed switched 
from another provider to Vanguard around the same time had actually increased in value.
Mr S raised his concerns with Prudential. He didnt understand what had happened to erode 
his main pension fund during the switch. Prudential responded to his complaint on 15 August 
2022. It said that pension fund values fluctuate on a daily basis and it wasnt responsible for 
these market dynamics. However, it went on to apologise for the customer service hed 
received and to uphold his complaint in the following terms:
I understand that we received the request to transfer via ORIGO on 8 March 2022, 
however, we transferred your fund over to Vanguard on 16 March 2022. We usually aim to 
complete transfer requests within 5 working days, however, I can see that we failed to do so 
on this occasion. I can confirm that your fund value has not been impacted by this as we 
used your transfer value as at 8 March 2022 (the date that we received the ORIGO 
request).
However, I am aware that our delay in sending these funds over to Vanguard may have 
resulted in financial detriment in terms of delays reinvesting your funds. In order to establish 
if there has been any loss to your fund as a result of our delays, I have contacted Vanguard. 
Once I hear back from them, I will be back in contact with you.
I both understand and agree that we have provided an unsatisfactory service in this 
instance and we could have done more to ensure that you received a higher level of care. I 
am sorry that we have failed to provide you with the customer service that you deserved.
Mr S responded to Prudential saying he thought it should pay him compensation of around 
£30,000. This was equivalent to about 10% of the pension hed switched from it to 
Vanguard. He again drew on movements in the stock market and what had happened to the 
value of his smaller switched pension to make his case. I cant see that it responded to his 
communication.
Mr S brought his complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered his case but didnt 
uphold it. She thought there was never any guarantee associated with the transfer value of 
his pension plan. Nor was Prudential responsible for any volatility in the market. She thought 
it had done enough to put things right. Mr S disagreed, he didnt think it had provided proper 
compensation for what had happened.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Ss 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional decision last month. 
Prudential provided additional commentary about its service levels, which Ive considered in 
arriving at this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Prudential for Mr S. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Ss complaint.
I recognise Mr Ss frustration about the loss in value of his pension fund during the period he 
decided to switch providers. I note his points in relation to his experience with his smaller 
pension plan transfer and his observation about the performance of the stock market around 
the same time. But as the Investigator found, the performance of different funds depends on 
a range of factors including investment strategy, asset base, fund structure and exposure to 
risk. So the comparisons hes made arent particularly instructive.
Its also the case that fund valuations change daily and wouldnt be guaranteed until the 
funds were sold down to cash in advance of Mr Ss pension being switched. Market factors 
affect fund value, and events around the world have been a contributing factor in the 
increased volatility weve seen in recent years.Next Ive considered how Prudential actually handled the switch of Mr Ss pension. In its final 
response to him it acknowledged that it got some things wrong. It said that it aimed to 
complete requests like his within five working days.
I think its also useful to understand what service levels firms should be aiming for when 
switches take place between providers. In this regard the sector best practice issued by the 
Transfers and Re-registration Industry Group (TRIG); whose membership included several 
trade bodies is instructive. In 2018 it published an Industry-wide framework for improving 
transfers and re-registrations. It noted:
When moving investments, assets and entitlements between institutions, people have a 
legitimate right to expect the industry to execute their instructions in a timely and efficient 
manner. Furthermore, customers service expectations are increasing due to the relative 
simplicity of switching in other markets. Slow transfers can cause detriment to customers; 
and the actions of one party can reduce the efficiency of all parties in the chain.
In this publication TRIG established what it considered to be reasonable timeframes for firms 
to adhere to for transactions like those being performed for Mr S. At paragraphs 30-32 the 
best practice guide said:
The TRIG believes that organisations should adopt a maximum standard of two full 
business days for completing each of their own steps in all transfer and re-registration 
processes within the scope of this Framework, with the exception of pension cash 
transfers
This approach would enable each counterparty in a process to be equally accountable for 
ensuring that an efficient transfer and reregistration process is in place. Similarly, 
organisations will not be accountable for the underperformance of counterparties that are 
outside of their control.
This window would comprise two full business days, with a business day defined as a day 
when the London Stock Exchange is open. Each firm would process its step by 2359 of the 
second business day following the day of receipt. This means that, in practice, some firms 
might have more than 48 hours to process their step, e.g. if they received an instruction at 
0900 on day one, and did not complete their step until 2300 on day 3.
In responding to my provisional decision Prudential said:
The crux of the decision relates to the framework of best practice suggested by TRIG. We 
feel we can defend our complaint outcome as we were not participating in STAR at the time 
of this transfer and therefore feel the timeline within our own complaint investigation is fair 
and reasonable.
We believe TRIG is a part of STAR; therefore the 2 day timeline is in relation to full STAR 
MI [management information] (where each section of the journey has an ideal 2 day 
turnaround). On this basis, there are a few important things to note, as follows:
-The complaintwould fall within the initial STAR accreditations for Core MI which 
were announced in November 2022 (covering Q4 2021 to Q2 2022 transfer 
performance). However Prudential did not participate.
-STAR is a voluntary initiative.
-Full MI is not yet being measured.
-STARs ambition is that Full MI will replace Core MI from 2025.
-STAR membership doesnt commit us to meeting any specific SLAs.-STAR cannot guarantee or enforce that date, but ultimately participating in Full MI, 
like Core MI, does not commit us to 2-Day SLAs  underperformance will simply be 
reflected in our annual accreditation.
-Prudential are founder members of STAR and are rated by STAR (Core MI) as 
Bronze for Individual transfers and Silver for Occupational transfers.
-STAR measures and accredits organisations based on transfer performance. 
Currently STAR measure firms on overall end to end Journey times (known as Core 
MI) and Prudential (bronze award) is one of 15 organisations accredited by STAR in 
relation to individual pension transfers. However, there are another c60 organisations 
who are members of STAR but not yet accredited (and countless others that havent 
signed up).
Im grateful for Prudentials observations. Id note the description of the problem the STAR 
industry accreditation has been established to address, available on its website:
Industry systems and processes are inconsistent and transfer timeframes vary between 
providers. Service expectations are increasing due to the relative simplicity of switching in 
other markets and the availability and technological advancements.
Registration processes in the financial services industry can take between 2 and 450 days 
which the regulator, industry, consumers and government believe is unacceptable.
Leading investment and pension trade associations established the Transfers and Re-
registration Industry Group (TRIG) to provide a solution. STAR was created as a 
partnershipto implement and deliver the TRIG framework, which is to define and shape 
recognised, industry-wide standards to promote good practice in transfers.
So, the work of STAR to build on the framework put in place by TRIG is welcome. Once 
established the regime should provide consumers with a more transparent understanding of 
what service levels they can expect from different firms. With that knowledge up-front, they 
will be better placed to understand matters such as service levels, fund performance and 
price, and any trade-offs between these, when selecting their providers.
I note Prudential views the STAR development as a work in progress. And it says it didnt 
participate in the relevant accreditations covering the period when Mr Ss complaint arose.
Having considered Prudentials arguments carefully, Im not persuaded to depart from the 
findings and conclusions in my provisional decision. Im satisfied the TRIG framework 
applied pragmatically is a fair and reasonable guide of what shouldve been possible in this 
case.
Prudential has confirmed it used the Origo system to effect the switch of Mr Ss pension to 
Vanguard. And the transfer value it used was from 8 March 2022 of around £274,000. Its 
not clear why the monies werent sent to the new provider until 16 March 2022.
While Prudential acknowledged it had been responsible for a delay in the transaction and 
that it needed to conduct an assessment to understand if Mr S had lost out as a result, it said 
the length of the delay was 1 day. I disagree with this basis for calculation. Taking the 
framework of best practice suggested by TRIG, a reasonable notional date for it to assume 
Vanguard received his funds is 11 March 2022, not 15 March 2022 as it proposed.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ss complaint, so he needs to be returned to the position hed have been in 
now, or as close to that as reasonably possible, had it not been for Prudentials failings. Redress isnt always a scientific matter. But I do think the framework Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable.
I require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to assess what Mr Ss notional position 
would be now had it provided a more effective service. In doing so it should assume his 
pension funds were received by Vanguard on 11 March 2022. So it needs to understand 
what his pension pot would be worth at the date of calculation had it been invested in the 
same funds in the same proportions, at the prices available at that earlier date. This is value 
A.
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should then assess Mr Ss position as it stands, 
for the relevant funds within the scope of this dispute, so making adjustments for any 
additional contributions or withdrawal of monies that hes made, so as to arrive at a like for 
like comparison. This is value B.
If value A is greater than value B, Mr S has suffered a financial loss. The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited will be required to make good this sum, less any redress it has 
already paid. It will need to do so within 28 days of being notified that Mr S has accepted my 
final decision. After this it will need to add 8% simple annual interest on the outstanding sum.
If value B is greater than value A, Mr S hasnt suffered a financial loss and The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited will just need to give effect to my provisions for distress and 
inconvenience (as set out below).
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited should provide Mr S with a breakdown of the 
redress calculations in a clear and simple format.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ss I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of a firms actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. Its 
clear to me that this was the case here.
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited accepted it got things wrong for Mr S and that 
its failings had caused him trouble and upset. It apologised and offered him £200 for this. I 
think that award is fair and it should honour that payment if it hasnt done so already.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. I require The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited to put matters right in the way Ive directed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman