DRN-1823189
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that her claim for storm damage under her buildings insurance policy was 
turned down by Fairmead Insurance Limited.
What happened
Ms D contacted Fairmead to make a buildings insurance claim when an awning attached to 
her home was damaged during a storm. Fairmead sent a surveyor to assess the claim. The 
surveyor concluded that the damage was due to wear and tear, rather than as a direct result 
of the storm, and that the awning had reached the end of its natural life. Fairmead turned 
down the claim.
Ms D complained to Fairmead and provided a video showing the storm. Fairmead 
maintained that it was correct to turn down the claim.
Ms D complained to this service. Our investigator initially upheld the complaint. He thought 
there was evidence of a storm and that although there was wear and tear to the awning, the 
policy said that in such circumstances Fairmead would contribute to the cost of replacing the 
damaged item. He said Fairmead should contribute to the cost of replacing the awning and 
pay £75 compensation.
Fairmead didnt accept the investigators findings and said that under the terms of its policy, 
it would only make a contribution where it accepted the claim in the first place. However, it 
had declined the claim because it was of the view that the main cause of the damage was 
wear and tear and not the storm. Our investigator considered this and concluded that the 
claim wasnt covered. He didnt uphold the complaint.
As Ms D did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider storm claim complaints, there are three main issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
 
If the answer to all of these questions is yes, then the claim is likely to succeed. If the answer 
to any of these questions is no, the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be covered.It isnt in dispute that there was a storm at the time of the claim. I also think there is evidence 
that some of the damage is likely to have happened during the storm. However, the question 
is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage.
Fairmead sent a surveyor to assess the damage. Ive looked at the surveyors report and this 
shows a range of wear and tear to the awning including weathered metal, rust and algae 
growth. Im aware that Ms D said the surveyor wasnt there for very long and carried out a 
rushed assessment and that the awning was checked every January as part of annual 
maintenance checks carried out on her house. She said that the annual checks werent 
carried out by an awning specialist. 
Ive thought about this carefully. The surveyor visited Ms Ds home in February 2020 and 
there were clear signs of wear and tear on the awning. Even if Ms D had her normal annual 
maintenance check in January, there still seem to have been a range of existing issues with 
the awning at the time of the storm. Maintenance checks also dont prevent an item reaching 
the end of its natural life, which the surveyor found to be the case here. Im aware that Ms D 
thinks the surveyors visit was rushed. However, while he was there, he seems to have 
carried out an assessment of various part of the awning and identified a range of issues, 
which he has evidenced with photographs and explained further in his written assessment. 
Whilst I can understand that Ms D thinks the storm was the main cause of the damage, in 
the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to conclude that the storm 
highlighted existing issues rather than the damage being due to a one-off storm incident. It 
therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint as I think it was reasonable for Fairmead 
to turn down the claim. So, I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020.
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman