DRN-3258585
The complaint
Mr W complained about the amount of redress he was offered by Barclays Bank UK PLC
(Barclays) for the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy (ending number 
9555) sold to him with a mortgage.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 15 December 2021 and invited the parties to respond. In 
that provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Below 
is what I said in that decision 
What happened
In December 2019 Barclays offered Mr W £54.50 for the mis-sale of a PPI policy sold along
with his mortgage. Barclays said the PPI had started on 25 June 2002 and ended on
19 July 2002. Mr W said his mortgage repayments remained the same after the end date
that Barclays had quoted which proved the PPI policy remained in place until the maturity of
the mortgage. Mr W questioned why the PPI policy would have been cancelled after less
than a month and he wanted proof of the end date of the policy. He provided Barclays with
his bank statements.
Barclays told us the payment of £54.50 had been made in error. No debits for any PPI
premiums were shown on Mr Ws bank statements for that policy. But Barclays said it wasnt
going to reclaim the payment.
During Barclays investigation of Mr Ws complaint, the bank statements revealed two direct
debits for a second PPI policy (ending number 290 00) of £25.62 each connected to his
mortgage. The mortgage had started in July 1997. Barclays said the policy hadnt been mis-
sold. The adjudicator who considered the complaint thought Barclays actions regarding the 
incorrectly paid redress for policy number ending 9555 was fair as there wasnt any evidence 
from Mr Ws bank statements that PPI payments had been made.
But the adjudicator thought that the complaint about the PPI policy number ending 290 00
should be upheld. He said there wasnt enough evidence to show that Mr W was given
sufficient opportunity to confirm he wanted to take the policy. The cost of the policy wasnt
clearly presented as separate to the mortgage or that it was clear that Mr W had to sign
separately for the policy which would have highlighted that it was a separate product. He
concluded if Barclays had clearly informed Mr W of the costs and benefits of the policy, he
wouldnt have thought the policy was good value for him.
Barclays disagreed. In the absence of documents from the time of the sale it detailed how
the sale would have been made and the policy information that would have been provided to
Mr W.
In response to the adjudicators assessment, Mr W said that he would never have
considered taking PPI.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has said it will not be reclaiming the payment it made for policy number ending
9555. So, my provisional decision is only in consideration of policy number ending 290 00.
What is clear in this case is that there is very limited evidence from the time of the sale of the
policy. Barclays hasnt been able to give us any of the original paperwork from the time of
the sale. But I dont find this surprising as the sale took place nearly 25 years ago, the
mortgage has now been redeemed and businesses arent obliged to keep paperwork
indefinity. But where there is limited information, Ill make my decision based on what I think
more likely happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties have
told me and what we know about these types of sale.
After consideration, Ive provisionally decided the policy (number ending 290 00) wasnt mis-
sold. Ill explain why.
Barclays has assumed the PPI was taken at the same time as the mortgage in July 1997.
Barclays has told us that its representative would have advised Mr W to take out the PPI to
protect his new mortgage. So, I think its likely there would have been some discussion
about the cover. I think its unlikely the PPI could have been set up without Mr W signing
some form of application for it. And as the monthly premiums for the policy were separate
from the mortgage repayments, I think Mr W would have also completed and signed a bank
direct debit mandate in order for the premiums to have been debited from his bank account.
The PPI policy was in force for some time and would have probably appeared on his
mortgage statements. So, if Mr W hadnt asked for the policy, or didnt want the cover Id
have expected him to have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not seen any evidence
that he did.
Taking all of this into account, I think its more likely Barclays made Mr W aware of the
policy, that it was optional, and he chose to take it out. Although its completely
understandable why Mr W may not remember this after so many years.
Barclays has said it recommended the PPI to Mr W, so it had to check that the policy was
right for him. And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was.
I cant see that Mr W would have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the
PPI cover. There was nothing about his employment which would have prevented him from
making a claim and he didnt tell us of any pre-existing medical conditions. So, he could
have made a successful claim if he had needed to.
Mr W has told us he would have received between six and 12 months sick pay from his
employer if he was too unwell to work. But Barclays has told us this particular PPI policy
would have paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months if Mr W became too unwell to work or
lost his job. And while the monthly benefit is not known in this case, I think it likely would
have been sufficient to cover Mr Ws monthly mortgage repayment. The policy would pay the
benefit on top of any employee sick pay or redundancy pay Mr W would receive, so thoseemployee benefits could have been used for other essential household outgoings. The policy 
would have also paid out for longer than Mr Ws full sick pay would last. So, despite Mr Ws 
work benefits I still think he would have found the policy useful if he became unwell,
particularly if he couldnt work for an extended period, or if he lost his job.
Mr W has said he had savings he could have relied upon to make the mortgage repayments
in the event he wasnt working. But having the policy would have meant those savings could
have remained intact or used for their original purpose.
The penalties for not being able to keep up mortgage repayments are severe  even going
as far as losing ones home. So, I think Mr W would have seen the policy as an additional
layer of financial comfort he wouldnt otherwise have had.
Its not known what information about the policy Mr W was given at the time of the sale and
its possible the information Barclays gave him wasnt as clear as it should have been. But I
think its likely he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it
seems likely it would have been useful to Mr W if something went wrong. I havent seen
anything to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for Mr W. So, I dont think better
information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the policy.
In summary, I think its most likely Barclays made it clear the policy was optional and that
Mr W chose to take it out. Mr W seems to have had a need for the cover, so the policy looks
to have been right for him. So even if Barclays had given him all the information it should
have, I still think Mr W would have bought the PPI policy.
In response to my provisional decision Mr W explained that for mortgage account ending 
290 00 he had requested it be a repayment mortgage because of the bad press around that 
time about endowments being unable to repay the mortgage. He said Barclays advised it 
had recalculated the monthly payments to cover any potential shortfall, so he proceeded with 
an endowment mortgage. 
Mr W said assumed the monthly payments of £25.62 were related to the endowment life 
cover linked with the mortgage and was therefore a necessary part of the mortgage. If he 
had realised it was PPI, he wouldnt have accepted it. He also reiterated he could have 
easily found alternative employment if he was out of work and had savings he could have 
relied upon. 
Mr W said that around June/July 2002 he wasnt happy with the endowment and changed to 
a repayment option. He says it is at that point the two payments of £25.70 (which werent 
taken in any event but were repaid by Barclays to Mr W in error) were for a new PPI policy 
on his repayment mortgage. He recalls being told about the cover and that it was cancelled 
as he didnt want it. 
Barclays confirmed it had nothing to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision there is very limited evidence for me to decide this 
complaint. And in the absence of any other evidence, and again as outlined in my provisional decision, when there is little evidence or information available, I have to make my decision 
based on what I think more likely happened. 
Mr W previously provided bank statements showing two debits of £25.62 (for account ending 
290 00) so we do know two payments were made. So, at some point a policy was sold to   
Mr W. And these two payments may tally with Mr Ws recollection that he changed his 
mortgage to a repayment option around that time, but we cant know for sure in the absence 
of any other evidence. 
Id like to thank Mr W for his recollections about his mortgage choices and what he thought 
the payments of £25.62 may have covered. But those recollections havent caused me to 
change my decision about the outcome of the complaint. Ill explain why. 
As Ive said, at some point Mr W was sold a PPI policy and Barclays has assumed it was 
around the same time as the mortgage (account ending 290 00) started in 1997 which 
doesnt seem an unreasonable conclusion in the absence of any contradictory evidence and 
taking PPI cover at the point of the sale of the mortgage itself is a common time for it to be 
added to a mortgage account. 
So, in reaching my decision about the complaint I have considered what Barclays has told us 
the sales process for this type of policy would have been at that time. I detailed in my 
provisional decision the process that I thought likely look place and the discussion that I 
thought would have taken place, whether Mr W was aware he had a choice about taking it 
and whether the policy was right for him. 
I concluded that I didnt think the policy was unsuitable for Mr W bearing in mind his 
circumstances at the time. And Mr Ws response to my provisional hasnt caused me to 
change my mind. 
So, I do appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr W  he has put time and effort in 
bringing his complaint  but overall, I cant fairly say that the policy was mis-sold to Mr W.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint about the mis-sale of PPI on his 
mortgage account (ending 290 00). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman