DRN-2815790
The complaint
Mr M complains Nationwide Building Society treated him like a criminal by asking him 
several questions when he tried to open a current account with it. He says it shouldnt have 
questioned him like it did.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. But Id like to reassure Mr M 
and Nationwide that Ive considered everything Ive been provided in its entirety. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
I acknowledge Mr M feels very strongly about how he was treated during the phone 
call with Nationwide. So, Ive listened to the call very carefully and considered 
whether this is what happened here. 
Mr M was asked several questions during the application process  including his 
nationality, country of birth, and intended purpose for the account. I understand Mr M 
found some of these questions intrusive, but the law places extensive obligations on 
regulated financial businesses to carry out checks before approving an application. 
By asking these questions, Nationwide was simply complying with its regulatory 
obligations.
I know Mr M feels very strongly the adviser asked him if he intended to use the 
account for money laundering. But having listened to the call, Id like to assure him 
that is not what happened. When Mr M raised concerns about the line of questioning, 
the adviser can be heard explaining shes asking them to comply with money 
laundering regulations. She goes on to say things have changed over time and 
Nationwide needs to pay particular attention to money laundering. The adviser 
reassures Mr M these are standard questions and even goes on to say sorry if they 
caused offence. 
I acknowledge Mr M may have been upset by the way in which he felt he was 
treated. But I also have to consider that people can subjectively misconstrue the 
actions and intent of others. And looking at what happened here objectively, I dont 
think there are strong enough grounds to say Nationwide treated Mr M less 
favourably than they would treat others. Indeed, its difficult for me to say Mr M was in 
fact treated less favourably at all. Having listened to the call, I consider the adviser 
was simply asking questions she would have asked any other customer looking to 
open an account with Nationwide. 
I appreciate Mr Ms point hes an existing customer of Nationwide so shouldnt be 
questioned like this. But the requirement to undertake due diligence applies to both 
new and existing relationships. And sometimes information needs to be confirmed, 
even if it is unchanged. So, I dont consider Nationwide acted unreasonably or 
unfairly by asking these questions.
I recognise Mr M is likely to disagree with my findings and I appreciate his feelings on this 
matter. But looking at everything, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly in the circumstances 
 so Im not requiring it to do anything to settle this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman