DRN-2444156
The complaint
Mr D complains that TSB Bank plc declined his charge back claim.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr D booked a hotel room and paid £244.35 using his TSB credit card. Mr D 
requested a twin-bedded room and says the hotel was advertised as having no resort fees.
When Mr D arrived at the hotel, he was given a double room. He asked to change to a twin 
bedded room but was told that none were available.
On checkout, Mr D was charged an  additional £63.54 overnight fee by the hotel.
On returning home, Mr D contacted TSB and raised a charge back claim for the cost of the 
room and the overnight fee. 
TSB registered the reason for the charge back claim as the hotel room not being what Mr D 
had booked. It credited Mr Ds account and contacted the merchant. The merchant defended 
the claim and said Mr D had accepted terms and conditions at the time of booking which 
said that room requests couldnt be guaranteed.
Mr D explained to TSB that his charge back claim was in relation to the resort fee, because 
the advertisement said that none would be charged. A second chargeback was raised by 
TSB and the merchant defended it again.
Mr D was unhappy with the outcome of his claim and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked at whether TSB had followed the correct procedures under the 
chargeback scheme. He said that in relation to the hotel room, he didnt think TSB had acted 
incorrectly. But in relation to the resort fees, the investigator said TSB had made an error, 
because it had raised the charge back against the wrong entity and for the wrong amount. 
The investigator said that because TSB had raised the second charge back incorrectly, it 
should reimburse Mr D the £63.54 he had paid to the hotel.
TSB didnt agree. It said it had done all it could to help Mr D raise his charge back claim 
based on the information he provided.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that TSB dealt fairly with the first charge 
back but made an error with the second. Ill explain why. 
The chargeback process allows customers to get their money back (in certain 
circumstances) if there is a problem with the goods or services that they have paid for. 
Under the scheme, TSB (like other card providers) do not have to process the charge back, 
but this service thinks it is good practice to try if there is good reasons to do so. Its important 
to note that theres no guarantee that a chargeback guarantees a refund.
I understand Mr Ds frustration with TSBs handling of the chargeback claim. TSB initially 
processed a charge back for the hotel room, but not for the resort fee (which also formed 
part of Mr Ds complaint).
In relation to the first charge back, I can see that TSB credited Mr Ds account with the cost 
of the hotel and contacted the merchant. The merchant defended the claim and provided 
evidence to show that rooms werent guaranteed.
Ive looked at how TSB handled the first charge back claim and I dont think it did anything 
wrong.
The second charge back was raised because Mr D was also disputing the resort fee hed 
been charged and this hadnt been addressed as part of the first charge back. I can see that 
TSB raised the second charge back against the merchant, rather than against the hotel 
itself, to whom Mr D had paid the resort fee. I can also see that the second charge back was 
raised for the  incorrect amount.
Based on what Ive seen, Im of the view that TSB made errors when it processed the 
second charge back. I think TSBs handling of the second charge back may have contributed 
to Mr D not getting his money back.  
Putting things right
Looking at everything, I dont think TSB processed the second charge back correctly. And 
because of the strict time limits which apply to charge backs, Mr D can no longer bring a 
claim against the hotel for the resort fees. Im of the view that Mr D has been disadvantaged 
by TSBs error here. In the circumstances, I think TSB should reimburse Mr D for the resort 
fee paid to the hotel.  
My final decision
My final decision is that In uphold the complaint. TSB Bank plc should reimburse the £63.54 
fee paid to the hotel.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman