DRN-3421755
The complaint
Company A says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) agreed a development loan but later changed 
the terms of that loan, causing a delay which left Company A with a significant financial loss. 
The complaint is being brought by Mr W, a director of Company A.
What happened
In 2017 BoS agreed a development loan with Company A, as Company A wanted to build a 
new property on a plot of land. The loan agreement said the loan was offered on condition of 
the following securities,(a) First Ranking Standard  Security from [Company A] over the 
freehold land and buildings at [plot address], and (b) a Bond and Floating Charge from 
[Company A] over the whole of its property and undertaking. BoS provided Company A with 
a loan of £162,400 for a term of twelve months. 
Company As builder started works  it was planned they would complete all the work from 
start to finish for a total price of £160,805.67. Over the next few months, Company A drew 
down part of the loan and paid its builders a total of £88,814.95. In around November 2017, 
Company A tried to draw down more of the loan but BoS said it wouldnt allow this until Mr W 
provided a personal guarantee. Mr W says the personal guarantee was finalised in 
December 2017 but by that time the builders had left the job due to concerns about when 
they would be paid. 
On behalf of Company A, Mr W complained to BoS that it had unfairly changed the terms of 
the lending, because it hadnt initially asked for a personal guarantee but then refused to 
release further loan funds without one. 
BoS said it had advised that a personal guarantee was required when Company A first 
applied for the loan, but acknowledged it didnt have any evidence of this. So BoS didnt 
think it had made an error, but it nonetheless offered Company A compensation in order to 
settle the complaint, taking into account the interest it had charged Company A in the last 
twelve months, amongst other things. 
In further communication between Mr W and BoS, it seems Mr W ultimately asked BoS for 
compensation of £34,900 plus an interest free period regarding the loan. BoS agreed to this 
and offered to credit Company As BoS loan account with £34,900 as well as waive interest 
between 24 June 2020 and 30 September 2020. 
On behalf of Company A, Mr W brought this complaint to our Service. He said BoS unfairly 
changing the terms of Company As loan meant Company A lost its builders and needed to 
pay other builders more to complete work already begun. And this caused problems with 
Company As cash flow and so property had to be sold, other lending had to be taken out, 
and legal costs were incurred regarding all of this. Mr W said Company As financial loss 
was very significant, including:
legal costs;
additional build costs;
loss of rental income caused by being unable to sell this property and so not having 
funds available to pay for necessary works to a rental property;
interest BoS charged Company A for this development loan;
interest paid to other lenders on subsequent loans taken out;
loss of income caused by other properties being sold below market value so that 
funds were available.
Over the following months, Mr W provided our Service with more evidence and information 
to support Company As complaint against BoS. This included evidence of loans, property 
valuations and sales, building works and legal costs. But Mr W highlighted that no funds 
were paid into Company As own bank account as he thought BoS would simply have taken 
them as payment towards the development loan, which was in arrears  Mr W says all funds 
were instead paid through his other businesss account, which Ill call Company B.
After considering the complaint, our Investigator upheld it but said he couldnt be sure what 
financial impact BoS had directly caused Company A. So he didnt think BoS should pay 
compensation for any financial loss regarding legal costs, property sold, loss of rental 
income, or other loans taken out. But he said the BoS loan went significantly over the 
original twelve-month repayment period, so BoS had charged additional interest. And he 
thought it wasnt fair for BoS to charge additional loan interest past the point where the 
residential property ought to have been completed or sold, because BoS should have made 
the personal guarantee clear before agreeing the loan or not asked for it later, which he 
thought caused delays. But he noted Company A hadnt yet repaid any of the development 
loan. 
Ultimately, our Investigator said BoS should put things right by refunding all the BoS loan 
interest and charges Company A paid from January 2019 onwards, and should add 8% 
simple interest on that. But once BoS had done that, the loan would effectively reset and 
Company A would be responsible for paying the capital and interest originally agreed on the 
loan when it was taken out. Our Investigator also thought BoS should pay Company A £500 
compensation for the inconvenience BoS caused it.
BoS agreed with our Investigator, and said it would remove the interest it had charged 
Company A from January 2019 to date, plus 8% simple interest, from what it was asking 
Company A to repay for the development loan. BoS calculated that this amounted to 
£35,072.91 at that time. BoS also agreed to pay Company A an additional £500 
compensation for inconvenience.
On behalf of Company A, Mr W disagreed. He said this wasnt sufficient compensation for 
the impact of BoSs error on Company A and him and his family, and he reiterated some of 
the comments hed previously provided on Company As behalf. But our Investigator didnt 
change his view. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint came to me for a decision. In further 
communication, Mr W again reiterated some of his previous comments. He also said BoS 
were now enforcing the personal guarantee, which Mr W felt BoS had obtained by holding 
him to ransom. And that while Company A might be the eligible complainant here, both he 
and his wife were seriously affected as their family home was now at risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by acknowledging that Mr W has provided our Service with a great deal of comments and evidence in support of Company As complaint. Id like to reassure Mr W that 
I have read all of this, but I wont address everything he has provided in my decision. I mean 
no discourtesy by this, but Ill only address what I see to be relevant to reaching a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint. This simply reflects the nature of our Service.
Id also like to say Im sorry to hear of the financial difficulties Mr W has told us about, which I 
understand must be causing Mr W and his family a great deal of upset. 
However, I need to be clear that our Service can only look into complaints brought to us by 
eligible complainants. In this case, the development loan in question was between 
Company A and BoS, and so only Company A is the eligible complainant in this particular 
complaint. Mr W and his other business are not eligible complainants here because they are 
not customers of BoS with regards to this particular loan. This means I cant take into 
account the impact this may have had on Mr Ws other business or on Mr W or his family 
when making this decision. If Mr W feels he has cause for complaint about BoS now 
enforcing the personal guarantee, he would need to raise that as a new complaint with BoS 
first. And if Mr W was unhappy with its response, he may then be able to refer that new 
complaint to our Service.
Ultimately, BoS would have been entitled to ask for a personal guarantee before it agreed 
this loan with Company A. But its not clear why BoS didnt ask for a personal guarantee 
before it agreed this loan. And Ive not seen that BoS told Company A it might ask for a 
personal guarantee at a later stage. So I think BoS made an error by not saying it might ask 
for a personal guarantee at some time after the loan had been agreed, when this wasnt 
something BoS had asked for at the start. And I think this error caused Company A an 
unnecessary delay of about two months at most, between November 2017 (when Company 
A tried to draw down loan funds but was told by BoS it required a personal guarantee first) 
and mid-December 2017 (when Mr W says the personal guarantee was finalised). I dont 
think Company A should have to pay interest on the BoS loan for that period of delay. 
However, I dont think that delay led to the financial losses Mr W says Company A has been 
caused. Ill explain why.
When a business makes an error, our approach is to consider the impact of the error. In 
other words, the distress, inconvenience and financial loss that error caused. As I say, the 
eligible complainant in this case is Company A. Company A is a business and not a natural 
person, so it cant experience distress. Therefore, I cant compensate Company A for 
distress. But Company A can be inconvenienced. And I think that BoSs error in asking for a 
personal guarantee well after it had already agreed the loan and without saying this was 
something that might happen, caused Company A inconvenience in arranging this at short 
notice. I think £500 is fair compensation for this inconvenience.
Company A wants our Service to award compensation for all the financial losses it says BoS 
caused it. From what Mr W has provided to our Service on Company As behalf, I 
understand he considers that these amount to a very large sum of money, and include things 
like legal costs, additional build costs, loss of rental and sale income, interest BoS charged 
Company A for this development loan, and interest paid to other lenders on subsequent 
loans.
But I need to be clear that I could only fairly and reasonably award compensation for 
financial loss if I thought that those financial losses were directly caused by BoSs error, and 
if I thought the financial losses were caused to Company A itself - so not to Mr W, his other 
business or some other entity. 
On Company As behalf, Mr W has provided a great deal of evidence and comments about what he considers Company As financial loss to be, and I acknowledge his strength of 
feeling. But from whats been provided, Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that 
BoS has directly caused Company A itself a specific and quantifiable loss.
I understand Mr W says that property had to be sold to provide cash flow so Company A 
could continue building the property it had started building with the BoS development loan. 
And that Company A should have had the proceeds from the sale of the property it was 
building, but because of the delay BoSs error caused, it didnt have these proceeds and so 
for the past three years or so its had to take out other lending. But the property sold in 2018 
was owned by Company B, not Company A. And while the other property sold was owned 
by Company A, it was sold in 2021, so some years after BoSs error. I cant see that this is 
therefore a loss caused by BoS.
While there were a series of loans, only two of these seem to have been in Company As 
name. And my understanding is that each of these loans repaid the previous loan with 
additional borrowing, so that the final loan was for an amount of £489,536. This is 
significantly more than the build costs of the property Company A had started building with 
the BoS development loan. Its unclear why the loan is now this high. However, Ive not seen 
evidence to persuade me that the funds from the sold property and further loans were used 
to pay for additional building costs regarding the property Company A had started to build 
with the BoS development loan. 
In addition, Mr W has told our Service that he could not pay any funds into Company As 
own bank account as he thought BoS would simply have taken them as payment towards 
the development loan, which was in arrears  he says all funds were paid through Company 
Bs account to protect any funds advanced to Company A. Its Mr Ws right to choose how to 
operate his businesses from a cash flow point of view. But as Ive explained, our Service can 
only consider any potential loss against Company A. And ultimately, Im not able to fairly say 
BoS has directly caused Company A itself a specific and quantifiable financial loss.
So for the reasons above, I think BoS caused Company A an unnecessary delay and 
inconvenience but I dont think this led to a financial loss for Company A. 
That said, BoS has agreed to remove from the loan balance the interest it charged Company 
A for the development loan from January 2019 to date, plus 8% simple interest  this stood 
at £35,072.91 in January 2022. This is clearly more than the interest that was charged 
during the two month period of delay, which Ive said Company A should not have to pay. 
However, I think its fair and reasonable to say that BoS should put things right in the manner 
it has already agree to.
Once BoS has done this, BoS is entitled to begin adding interest and charges to this loan 
again, subject to the original loan terms and conditions.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable to say that BoS should put things right in the manner it has 
already agree to, which is:
To remove from the loan balance the interest it charged Company A for the 
development loan from January 2019 to the date it removes this interest, plus 8% 
simple interest per annum.
To pay Company A £500 compensation for inconvenience.
Once BoS has done this, BoS is entitled to begin adding interest and charges to this loan 
again, subject to the original loan terms and conditions.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should:
Remove from the development loan balance the interest it charged Company A for 
the loan from January 2019 to the date it removes this interest, plus 8% simple 
interest per annum.
Pay Company A £500 compensation for inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman