DRN-1395984
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain on behalf of their business, which I'll call "L", about the delayed 
opening of a new business account by National Westminster Bank Plc. This in turn led to 
financial difficulties and available overdrafts being removed. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M ran a travel business, taking bookings for customers. They were experiencing 
problems with their existing merchant service provider and were looking to separate out the 
invoices for their businesses - Mrs M was setting up a new business. 
They gave notice to their existing merchant service provider and opened a new business 
account with NatWest, for the new business. They applied for a new business account on 16 
October 2018.  Although the application for the account was accepted by 29 October, the 
account had been opened in the wrong name, with the wrong signatory for the account 
and Mrs M was listed as Mr M. They also weren't sent a welcome letter for the account and 
needed a debit card for it. Mr and Mrs M made several complaints about these matters and 
how they'd been treated by staff when trying to get this resolved. 
NatWest agreed it had got things wrong. It offered a total of £625 in compensation for the 
inconvenience it had caused. It also said it was willing to consider any financial loss Mr and 
Mrs M had incurred as a result of L not being able to trade. A short time later, two overdrafts 
that Mr and Mrs had available on accounts were removed. They made a further complaint as 
they said this was due to not being able to trade because of the delay in opening the 
account, and they weren't notified of this in advance. Although NatWest stood by its decision 
to remove the availability of the overdrafts it did reinstate them temporarily because no 
notice had been given. 
Although our investigator initially found NatWest hadn't done anything wrong, she ultimately 
upheld the complaint. She found:
The £625 compensation offered for the inconvenience in opening the business 
account was fair. 
NatWest should reinstate the overdrafts and both parties would need to work 
together to come to a payment arrangement for them. If it was still right to remove 
them, that should be done gradually rather than availability being removed all at 
once. 
NatWest should reimburse L's financial losses for a period of two weeks, as she was 
satisfied Mr and Mrs M ought to have mitigated their losses by opening a business 
account elsewhere. 
Refund the difference in account fees between a platinum and black reward account, 
she didn't find it was fair the account was further upgraded when NatWest has 
sought to argue that income had substantially dropped and there was evidence of 
financial difficulties. 
 
NatWest agreed the outcome on provision from Mr and Mrs M of their previous commission 
earnt (not turnover) during a similar period in previous years. Mrs M was able to provide commission evidence for 2017, but is unable to provide anything 
further as that information was held with their previous merchant service provider. However, 
they disagreed with the outcome reached and don't believe only providing two weeks of lost 
commission is sufficient as they were without their account, and so unable to trade, for a 
period of three months. And they argue they were continually reassured the account was 
being rectified. They argue that had they been aware it would have taken three months, they 
likely would have looked elsewhere for an account. 
Before reaching my final decision I asked Mr and Mrs M to confirm which account they had 
previously used as their business account. They confirmed that account ending 708 was 
their business account but that account ending 855, a personal account, was where 
commission was paid. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to reassure both Mr and Mrs M, and NatWest, that although I have only 
summarised the background and arguments above, I have read and considered everything 
provided in its entirety.  
There are a number of different issues for me to consider, so for ease, I will deal with each in 
turn. 
delays and errors in the account being opened
NatWest accepts that it got things wrong when the account was opened, so I don't need to 
investigate this further. I can see from the information provided that both Mr and Mrs M were 
in contact with the bank about getting the account set up correctly. So its right they are 
compensated for the inconvenience those errors caused. Overall, I find the total offered of 
£625 to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
financial loss as a result of the delayed account opening
Mr and Mrs M have sought to argue they lost about £40,000 in turn over because they 
couldn't trade for three months. They say this equates to about £7-£8,000 in lost 
commission. 
The information provided by Mr and Mrs M shows they needed to have the new business 
account set up in order to arrange their new merchant services. But I do have to question the 
prudence of cancelling an existing service before a new service is set up. I appreciate they 
wouldn't have known in advance of the delays they were going to experience. But I think 
most prudent business persons would have ensured new services were up and running 
before cancelling old services. This might have prevented some of the problems they 
experienced. 
The investigator found Mr and Mrs M were only entitled to lost commission for a two-week 
period as they should have mitigated their situation by going elsewhere for a new business 
account. There is a principle in law that people should mitigate their own losses. But I accept 
Mr and Mrs M's arguments they thought the matter would be sorted far sooner, and so why 
would they need to look elsewhere. So I don't necessarily think they should have been 
looking to open a new account with a different bank; after all that likely would have taken 
several weeks, particularly as they would have been brand-new customers of another bank 
(Mr and Mrs M did all their banking with NatWest). But this doesn't advance their case. I can't ignore that the position of overall incomings into 
their account ending 855 (to which their commission was paid) was substantially lower than 
previous years. So I'm not persuaded a comparison with previous years turnover and 
commission would be a fair comparison to show what they might have lost. And I have to 
bear in mind this was a new business.  I also can't ignore that in email correspondence with 
the bank, Mr M said "We only need this as a supplementary account to receive the odd 
payment." [email 26 October 2018]. As this was only supposed to be a supplementary 
account 'to receive the odd payment', I think it a fair assumption that they had another 
business account they were using as their main business account, and so they could have 
continued to trade. For that reason, I find two weeks of commission to be a fair assessment 
of financial loss that NatWest should be liable for during that time.  Mrs M has already 
provided that commission information to this office, so I will arrange for that to be forwarded 
to NatWest. 
removal of the overdraft facilities 
NatWest removed overdraft facilities from two accounts following a review. Records and 
statements from staff members suggest it had been trying to discuss the accounts with Mr 
and Mrs M for sometime, but they didn't want to admit they were in difficulties. As I 
understand it family were regularly helping them out. I therefore don't find they were 
removed as a direct consequence of the account opening delays. 
Under the terms and conditions to the account NatWest is able to ask for repayment of the 
overdrafts.  And there is nothing that says it has to continue offering those facilities; the 
availability of credit is dependent on affordability assessments. So I'm not persuaded it was 
wrong for NatWest to remove the facilities per se. However, given the level of borrowing 
here, overdrafts of over £17,000 in total, I don't think simply removing them was fair. I'm not 
persuaded most people, particularly if they are in financial difficulties, are able to repay such 
sums on demand. 
I therefore agree with the investigator's proposal, as did NatWest, to reinstate the overdrafts 
and for them to be removed gradually. Both parties will need to work together to come to a 
mutually acceptable repayment arrangement for the overdrafts. 
Like the investigator I'm surprised that NatWest offered Mr and Mrs M the opportunity to 
upgrade their account from a platinum account to a black account in August 2018, 
particularly as NatWest has sought to argue that income had dropped substantially from the 
beginning of 2018.  Although Mrs M has said they were offered increased overdrafts at the 
same time, that isn't what the evidence she provided shows. The overdrafts were increased 
much earlier in the year, so there was no increased borrowing when the account was 
upgraded.  As I don't think the account should have been upgraded, I also agree with the 
investigator's recommendation to refund to the account the difference in fees between the 
black and the platinum account. 
Putting things right
I have upheld the complaint for much the same reason as the investigator. I require NatWest 
to:
pay Mr and Mrs M the £625 offered if it hasn't already done so; and 
reinstate the overdraft facilities and work with Mr and Mrs M to come to a mutually 
acceptable repayment arrangement; and
reimburse the equivalent of two weeks lost commission to L; and reimburse the difference between the platinum and black account fees to Mr and Mrs 
M (taking into account any financial benefit they gained as a result of having the 
upgraded account). 
 
NatWest should also add 8% simple annual interest to the reimbursed sums from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement, as Mr and Mrs M, and L, have lost the use of that money. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to 
pay compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L and Mr and Mrs 
M to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman