DRN-3042100
The complaint
Mr G complains about the poor service he received when he opened an account with 
Freetrade Limited.
What happened
Mr G says Freetrades chat function wasnt working and he didnt get a reply to his emails. 
He says the app was confusing, especially the W-8BEN form and that he kept receiving 
unnecessary notifications.
Freetrade said it was sorry that Mr G found the app confusing and that it had been designed 
to be user-friendly. It said it couldnt change the W8-BEN form. It said the notifications were 
designed to provide new customers with guidance, but that Mr G could opt to receive less 
notifications if he preferred. It apologised for its chat function not working.
Mr G didnt think Freetrade had fully investigated his complaint or taken into account the 
distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt find 
Freetrade had done anything wrong and that the service Mr G received was in line with 
Freetrades terms and conditions.
Mr G didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
He received too many notifications  although he cant now remember how many.
The investigators conclusions are set out in detail, whereas Freetrade only provided a 
couple of lines for each of his complaint points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have reached the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
Freetrade sent Mr G notifications about its service, its terms and conditions, other 
services which were available and might be of interest to Mr G, and information about 
how to start investing. I dont find the number or the nature of the notifications to be 
unreasonable. When Mr G complained, Freetrade told him he had the option to turn off 
some of these notifications. So there was an option for Mr G to receive less information if 
he chose to do so.
I can see that Freetrade provided support to Mr G, as a new customer, to set up his 
account. That support was provided through the notifications it sent, its online chat 
function, and by email.
Freetrade apologised that its chat function was not operational when Mr G wanted to use 
it. It explained that it took the decision to turn off this function because of an unusually 
high volume of queries. Help was still available through its email service and I can see 
that Freetrade responded to Mr Gs emails within a reasonable period. So I think it 
treated Mr G fairly and reasonably.
Mr G says he found the W-8BEN form particularly confusing. Freetrade apologised for 
this but explained that it was a standard form. The form is issued by the US tax 
authorities and needs to be completed by individuals investing in US shares. Whilst Mr G 
may not have found it easy to complete, I can see that, in response to his concerns, 
Freetrade confirmed that he had completed it correctly.
Overall, I find Mr G was able to successfully open his account within a reasonable period 
of time. And that Freetrade provided him with support to do so. It apologised that its chat 
functionality had to be suspended and explained that it is working on increasing capacity 
for this function. And it responded to Mr Gs emails within a relatively short space of time.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Freetrade didnt investigate Mr Gs complaint 
thoroughly. Its final response to his complaint may have been briefer than Mr G was 
hoping for, but it did answer the points hed raised.
I accept Mr G feels it took him longer to open the account than he would have liked. And 
that he wanted help to be available instantly, through the chat function, when he had 
queries. The lack of an immediate response would have been frustrating. But I agree 
with our investigator  I dont find Freetrade did anything wrong. And it follows that I cant 
award compensation for any inconvenience Mr G says he experienced.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman