DRN-1476549
 
complaint
Mr B complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. turned down his travel insurance claim for accommodation costs.
background
On 19 February, Mr Bs son had an accident whilst on holiday and fractured his arm. Mr B 
told Mapfre about this, and Mapfre offered to fly them back to the UK. Mr B didnt take 
Mapfre up on its offer as his son had a further hospital appointment arranged for 
22 February, but also because hed driven them abroad. Mr B and his son returned home on 
23 February, as originally planned.
Mr B asked Mapfre to pay for his accommodation costs from 19 February to 23 February. 
Mapfre turned down this part of the claim because it said the accommodation had been used 
by him, and he hadnt cut short his holiday. Mr B was unhappy with this. He said he and his 
son had effectively cut short their trip because hed spent the remainder of the holiday caring 
for his son in their hotel room. He pointed out that if theyd taken up Mapfres offer to return 
to the UK, Mapfre would have had to pay for their travel costs as well as the hotel costs. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She didnt think it had been 
necessary for Mr B and his son to remain abroad, and as they didnt cut short their holiday, 
she didnt think it was reasonable to ask Mapfre to pay for their accommodation. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The policy says:
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below we 
will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefitsfor:
Travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to pay 
under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid 
excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling or 
cutting short your trip
 
Mr B didnt cut short his trip and return home early. Although Mapfre offered to fly him and 
his son back to the UK, he chose not to take up this offer. There were two reasons for that. 
The first being that hed driven to their holiday destination, and the second because his son 
had a further hospital appointment arranged for 22 February. Mr B explains the hospital wanted to take an X-ray on 22 February as they hadnt been able to confirm the exact area 
of the fracture. 
I appreciate Mr B was in a difficult situation. Hed driven to their holiday destination, and I 
assume he had his own vehicle with him. If he and his son had flown back to the UK when 
this was offered by Mapfre, then his car would have remained abroad.
I can understand why Mr B didnt want to drive back to the UK on 19 February. Hes 
explained to us that his son was in pain, and he may have felt the drive would be too much 
for his son at that time. However, Mapfre did give him the option to fly home, and ultimately it 
was his choice to remain abroad. 
Mr Bs son was first seen in hospital on 19 February, but he didnt remain there and was able 
to return to the hotel. Although Mr Bs son had a hospital appointment arranged for 22 
February, this was for an X-ray. Im satisfied it wasnt medically necessary for Mr Bs son to 
remain abroad until 22 February, as he could have had the X-ray in the UK. 
As Mr B didnt cut short his holiday and used the hotel hed booked, I dont require Mapfre to 
pay for his accommodation costs.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman