DRN-3869301
The complaint
Miss A complains about a conditional sale agreement she has with Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited. Miss A has been experiencing financial difficulties and is unhappy about the way 
that Moneybarn has treated her.
What happened
Miss A took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn in October 2020 to fund the 
cost of a used car. Miss A borrowed £6,000, which was to be repaid at approximately £220 
each month. Around the beginning of 2022 Miss A was required to have a medical 
procedure. This unfortunately was not successful, and a second procedure was then 
required. Miss A was very unwell during this period and as a result of this was unable to 
work. Miss As income reduced significantly as a result of not being able to work and I 
understand Miss A then lost her job as she was unable to work.
In addition to being physically unwell Miss A was suffering a great deal of stress and anxiety, 
caused by her illness and the resulting financial pressures. In addition to what Miss A owed 
Moneybarn for the car, she had other general financial commitments that she could also not 
afford. 
Miss A informed Moneybarn of her need for medical procedures and the impact this was 
having on her financially, and that she could not afford to meet the monthly repayments for 
the finance agreement. Moneybarn did provide some support to Miss A, but Miss A does not 
believe this was sufficient when considering the circumstances. Miss A feels that the contact 
with Moneybarn was excessive and refers to one instance where she believes she was 
pressured into paying £100 that she could not afford.
 
Having complained to Moneybarn Miss A referred her complaint to our service, where it was 
considered by one of our investigators. The investigator found that things could have been 
better between the parties, in particular referring to the completion of an income and 
expenditure form and the call relating to the £100. But ultimately the investigator concluded 
that Moneybarn had handled the situation with Miss A reasonably. 
Miss A did not accept the investigators conclusions and as the complaint could not be 
resolved informally it was referred to me for a final decision.
Further discussions were then had with Moneybarn and I highlighted the difficult financial 
position that Miss A was still in. I asked Moneybarn if it would consider allowing Miss A to 
voluntary terminate the conditional sale agreement and waive or write off anything that was 
still owed. Moneybarn agreed to this and said it would be willing to take back the car and 
write off over £1,000 that would still have been due under the agreement. Moneybarn also 
offered to update Miss As credit file and remove any adverse information.
This was put to Miss A but she was unhappy with this. Miss A referred to the fact that she 
had recently incurred considerable expense repairing the car and did not wish to accept the 
offer to hand back the car through a voluntary termination. 
As no agreement could be reached it remains for me to issue a final decision, which is the 
last stage in our process. 
Before moving on to my decision I would like to stress that this decision here is only in 
relation to the way that Moneybarn has interacted with Miss A in relation to her financial 
difficulties. A separate decision has already been issued in respect of the quality of the car 
which is associated with the conditional sale agreement. I shall not therefore be referring to 
or commenting in any detail on the quality of the car or the decision that has been issued in 
relation to that, other than to note that it was found that the car was of satisfactory quality 
when supplied to Miss A. And that as a result of that Moneybarn was not liable for the repair 
costs needed to fix the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. 
Miss A borrowed £6,000 from Moneybarn to fund the cost of acquiring a used car. The 
finance agreement is a conditional sale agreement and this means that although Miss A is 
the registered keeper and user of the car, Moneybarn is the legal owner until such time as all 
repayments are made under the agreement. Miss A agreed to repay the £6,000, plus 
interest and charges, by regular repayments of around £220 each month. In return for 
making the required repayments Miss A was able to retain possession of the car and use it 
for the purpose she intended when she acquired it. 
Unfortunately, around 14 months after taking out the finance agreement Miss A became 
unwell. This required a medical procedure around February 2022, which was unsuccessful 
and required a second procedure shortly after this time. Miss A was very unwell over this 
period and this significantly affected her ability to work. As she was unable to work this also 
affected her income, as her regular salary was reduced significantly when off work through 
illness.
 
I have no doubt this would have been a very unfortunate time for Miss A. Not only because 
of the medical issues and repeated surgery to resolve the problems, but the significant 
stress and worry caused by not having sufficient income each month to meet her regular 
financial commitments.
There are rules in place that require financial service providers to help and support 
consumers who are experiencing financial hardship. In particular, the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) and CONC 7.3, which refers to treatment 
of customers in arrears or default. In summary, lenders are required to treat customers with 
forbearance and due consideration. Exactly what this means in practice will depend on the 
specific circumstances of any given case. But can include considering suspending, reducing 
or waiving future interest or charges, or accepting token payments for a reasonable period of 
time. When Miss A contacted Moneybarn in February 2022 it agreed a period of breathing space 
until 25 March 2022, which meant that the payment due at that time was not needing to have 
been paid. Miss A and Moneybarn next spoke on 31 March 2022, where Miss A was advised 
that the missed payments would need to be repaid and could not be added to the end of the 
agreement. It was at this time that Miss A made a £100 card payment towards the arrears, 
which I will refer to again later. Moneybarns call notes indicate that Miss A declined to 
complete an income and expenditure form at that time and Miss A was expecting to go back 
to work shortly too. Moneybarn did inform Miss A of the arrears on the account and Miss A 
complained that she felt Moneybarns attempts to contact her were excessive. I dont think it 
is unreasonable for Moneybarn to attempt to contact Miss A so that arrangements can be 
made to repay the arrears that had accrued on the account. From what Ive seen of those 
attempts, Im not persuaded they were excessive. 
Further discussions took place and it was on 27 April 2022 that Miss A completed an income 
and expenditure form and a repayment plan of £30 each month, on top of the regular 
repayments, was agreed. I again appreciate that this would have been a very difficult time 
for Miss A but having considered the circumstances here Im not persuaded Moneybarn 
treated Miss A unreasonably or unfairly. It did allow a period of time where the regular 
repayments were not required and once it had assessed Miss As income and expenditure it 
agreed to allow a repayment plan to repay the overdue sums that were due on the account. 
Miss A has specifically referred to the conversation around the £100 payment she made on 
31 March 2022 and that she felt pressured into making that payment. Miss A says that this 
was all the money she had at the time and it was needed for other things. I havent been 
able to listen to the telephone conversation so I cannot be certain about exactly what was 
discussed. I am again sure it would have been difficult finically for Miss A at that time, but I 
havent seen sufficient evidence to persuaded me that Miss A was unfairly pressured into 
making the payment. 
I understand that Miss As account with Moneybarn is still in arrears and not therefore yet up 
to date. I would encourage Miss A to continue to engage with Moneybarn so the account can 
be brought up to date as soon as possible. I would also remind Moneybarn of its obligations 
to continue to treat Miss A with forbearance and due consideration. Moneybarn has recently 
offered to allow Miss A to return the car and write off over £1,000 of what would have still 
been due. I appreciate why Miss A may not wish to return the car but if she is unable to 
afford the monthly instalments, I would urge her to reconsider this and contact Moneybarn 
about returning the car. Should Miss A wish to keep the car and benefit from its use it would 
be reasonable to expect the monthly instalments under the credit agreement to be made on 
a regular basis. If Miss A is unable to afford the required monthly repayments for a 
prolonged period of time Moneybarn may look to take back the car. Should Moneybarn 
decide to do this, it should ensure all options are set out for Miss A to consider. 
Having considered what both parties have said and provided, and while accepting Miss A 
has had a difficult time throughout 2022, I am not persuaded that Moneybarn has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in its dealing with Miss A around the payments required on the 
account. It has allowed Miss A to retain possession of the car and has been flexible around 
the required repayments and arrears.My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Miss As complaint 
against Moneybarn No.1 Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman