DRN-2857902
The complaint
A representative, of Mr S and the estate of the late Mrs S, has complained about the sale 
of a package bank account (PBA) to the late Mrs S. The representative is unhappy that 
Lloyds Bank PLC has admitted mis-selling the PBA but has not, in her view, offered 
reasonable compensation.
What happened
This complaint is brought by a representative of the estate of the late Mrs S. 
The representative is Mrs Ss close relative.
The representative complained:
That Lloyds has accepted that it mis-sold a PBA to Mrs S, but it has not paid 
appropriate compensation to put the estate back in the position it would have 
been, if no mis-sale had taken place. The representative accepted that the late 
Mrs S had not paid any fees for the PBA, and so Lloyds was right that there 
were no fees to refund. But she said that Mrs S had always ensured that she 
kept her balance sufficiently high to avoid paying any fees: the level, at which 
the PBA became free, was a positive balance of £1,500 when the account 
started in 2001; this then changed to £2,000 in 2004. The representative says 
that Mrs S wouldnt have tied up this amount of money, if the PBA had not been 
mis-sold to her  she would have put it in a savings account and earned interest; 
and so the lost interest should be paid to the estate.
That Lloyds treated Mrs S badly, putting pressure on a vulnerable person, 
when it mis-sold her the PBA.
That Lloyds handled the representatives complaint poorly, by not giving 
timely responses and by being unhelpful during a phone call.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He agreed with Lloyds when it said that the 
late Mrs S had kept her balance at a level higher than needed just to avoid fees; and that, 
as a result of having the PBA, shed received a preferential higher interest for the money 
shed put into a Gold savings account. The adjudicator didnt clearly express a view on 
how the late Mrs S had been treated by Lloyds during the sale. He said the ombudsman 
couldnt look into how Lloyds responded to the representatives complaint, because 
complaint handling is not a regulated activity.
Because the representative didnt agree, the matter came to me for a decision. I reached 
a view of the case that was similar to that of the adjudicator. However, some of my 
reasoning was slightly different, and I also thought it would be helpful to make clearer the 
reasons for not upholding the complaint. So I wrote a provisional decision to give 
everyone a chance to properly comment. This is what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank 
accounts. Ive kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
My current view is that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. I will 
explain why.
Keeping a balance to avoid PBA fees
There is some evidence to show that the late Mrs S might have kept extra money 
in her PBA current account, to avoid having to pay PBA fees. However, I cant 
fairly say there is good evidence that she did this for a long period, or solely for 
that reason. It would be difficult to identify what money she would otherwise have 
put into a savings account; and difficult too to calculate fairly whether she was 
better or worse off overall (taking into account that she had significant savings in a 
Gold Saver account which received a preferential rate of interest). So I cant safely 
and fairly say shed have been better off, if she hadnt been mis-sold the PBA.
In saying this, Ive looked at the changing balances of the late Mrs Ss account. 
On 26/10/01 the current account had a balance of £511.62. It was at that stage a 
fee-free Classic account. On 15/11/01, once it had changed to the Gold PBA, the 
balance was £2744.12.
And in the following months the balance typically hovered at or above £2000, 
whilst various domestic payments went out and there were fund transfers in. In 
June and July 2002, there were two payments in of £2000 and the balance 
reached about £4,200 in June and £4,705 in July. After that the balance almost 
never went below £2,500 and was often much higher.
So, although the payments into the current account initially could have been to 
avoid PBA fees (plus an amount to allow for normal traffic in the account), after a 
reasonably short period the level of balance was much higher than necessary for 
this purpose. It suggests that Mrs S wanted that level of liquidity in her current 
account, and doesnt support a reasonable conclusion that over a longer term she 
kept funds in that account solely to avoid the fees. So there would be no lost 
interest to be compensated, even if that could be sensibly calculated.
So, even if I were to conclude that some of the monthly balances were to avoid 
PBA fees initially, it would be difficult to calculate whether Mrs S is due 
compensation for lost interest, especially taking into account the higher interest 
she received in the associated savings account.
How Lloyds treated the late Mrs S
The representative has said Lloyds put pressure on the late Mrs S, despite 
her age and vulnerability.
I do have the power to require redress, such as a payment to Mrs Ss estate, 
for the way Mrs S herself was treated. But I would need to have reasonable 
evidence that Lloyds did treat Mrs S badly, and that it was at such a level that 
it should attract redress.
I am conscious that this did happen almost 20 years ago, and I wouldnt know 
how much I could fairly rely on peoples memory of the details that long ago. 
And unfortunately I am unable to receive direct testimony from the late Mrs S.
The act of mis-selling, even when involving a vulnerable person, doesnt 
automatically mean that distress and upset has been caused.
My current view is that I dont have enough evidence to fairly uphold this 
part of the complaint.
Complaint handlingThe representative is unhappy with the way Lloyds handled her complaint, 
including how it communicated with her, the information it gave her, and how 
seriously it took the complaint.
I dont agree with the adjudicator that we are unable to investigate such an issue 
 although the overall effect may be the same.
I say this because the way the bank handled the complaint, about the regulated 
activity of banking, was closely related to that activity  it could be viewed as a 
continuation of the activities associated with the bank account and the mis-sale 
(which Lloyds admitted) and the alleged failure to properly make amends for 
errors.
However, I dont propose looking further into the matter. This is because, even if I 
found that Lloyds had handled the complaint poorly, I wouldnt take any action. As 
the alleged poor handling was experienced by a representative, and not the actual 
customer, I would not be able to require Lloyds to make redress.
Lloyds didnt comment further on my provisional decision. The representative of the estate of 
the late Mrs Ss disagreed with me. She made the following main points, which Ive 
summarised:
1) Evidence of bad treatment of the late Mrs S was that:
Mrs S hadnt wanted to change her account.
She was kept at the bank for an hour because she was saying no to the PBA. 
She had to agree to the PBA so that she wouldnt miss her bus  because of her 
age and medical condition she couldnt rush to the bus or cope with waiting for 
another half an hour. 
She had no need of the products that came with the account or the limitations  
Mrs S told the representative first thing about the need for the account not to drop 
below the charging level. Mrs S didnt want to have to keep this balance in her 
account. 
The salesperson was over zealous and ignored Mrs Ss preferences. 
2) The representative recalls very clearly what Mrs S said about the experience, and the 
representative thought she had, later on, helped Mrs S reverse the account change, 
but has now learnt the PBA continued until Mrs S died. 
3) Mrs S was vulnerable and in ill health and the experience with the bank distressed 
her. 
4) The increase in the balance of the bank account would have been due to the decline 
in Mrs Ss health and the difficulty she would have had in visiting the bank. Previously 
Mrs S would have put her surplus money into other savings account with building 
societies.
5) I commented in my provisional decision:
even if I were to conclude that some of the monthly balances were to 
avoid PBA fees initially, it would be difficult to calculate whether Mrs S is due compensation for lost interest, especially taking into account the 
higher interest she received in the associated savings account
Mrs Ss representative said in response that it should be possible to get a baseline by 
comparing interest rates between the rates offered by the Classic and the Gold 
account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge that the representative, who is a close relative of the late Mrs S, has given 
her recollections of the upset experienced by Mrs S. I have no doubt at all that the 
representative is giving an honest account. But I must bear in mind that the representative 
wasnt a direct witness of the meeting at the bank, and also that this happened about 20 
years ago. So the representatives account still isnt , by itself, strong enough evidence that 
the bank adviser should have foreseen or perceived that the sale of the PBA would cause 
this distress; or that the way the adviser acted, towards the late Mrs S,  was unreasonable or 
unfair. It isnt possible now to know what the adviser said, or whether an impartial observer 
would have regarded the meeting as pressurised or overlong. 
I speculated that the late Mrs S may have kept balances in her PBA (higher than necessary 
to avoid fees) because she wanted liquidity. Her representative has said it is more likely to 
be because Mrs S was suffering declining health and so could not visit the bank to move 
money. I can see this is a reasonable explanation. But it does still mean I cant say that 
Mrs S lost significant interest as a result solely of taking the PBA. It seems likely the balance 
would still have been high even if she had kept her original Classic account  she still would 
have been unable to move her money due to her ill health. It might be that Mrs S would have 
moved out £1500 to another account earlier, before she became unable to attend properly to 
her banking. But it would be speculation as to how much this would have affected her overall 
balance, once her health began to decline.
There is also the problem of whether the late Mrs S gained more from her Gold Saver 
account than she lost by getting lower interest on the minimum balance needed to avoid fees 
in the PBA. It would be necessary to know what Mrs S would have gained if she had put all 
her money that was in the PBA into a building society, or similar, and what the restrictions 
and penalties on withdrawal would have been  in other words I would have to speculate on 
how Mrs S would have used a building society account. 
I have also looked further at the late Mrs Ss bank account and I can see that she did receive 
a small amount of interest, once a year, based on her balance in the PBA. I think its likely 
this would not have been lower than any interest she might have received in her Classic 
account. 
The overarching difficulty, with all the aspects of this case, is that there isnt enough 
evidence to find fair causal links or to establish, to a reasonable certainty, alternative 
scenarios. 
I accept that the representative and the late Mrs S had difficult and upsetting experiences 
leading from the sale of the PBA, and the attempts to correct matters. But, for the reasons 
Ive given, Ive decided not to require Lloyds to take steps in response to the complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, Ive not upheld this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the estate of Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman