DRN-3860470
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited declined their claim under sections 75 
and 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) relating to their purchase of solar 
panels.
Mr and Mrs P are represented in this case by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around November 2016, Mr and Mrs P were contacted by a representative of a 
company Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be 
installed at their home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs P decided to 
purchase the system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. The system was subsequently installed. This included an optional extra called a 
voltage optimiser.
In September 2020 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ps behalf under 
sections 75 and 140A of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a 
number of representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was 
these misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs P to enter into the contract with P. 
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would not only make enough money to cover the cost of the loan but 
would actually make a profit;
the salesmans calculations about the performance of the system were false and had 
been made recklessly.
The CMC also alleged the following breaches of contract by P:
the terms of Ps quote were incorporated into the contract with Mr and Mrs P, and as 
the returns have not achieved what was promised a breach of contract had occurred; 
and
the salesmans statement that Mr and Mrs P would not suffer a loss by buying the 
solar system was a warranty which had been breached.
The CMC also alleged that an unfair relationship existed between Shawbrook and Mr and 
Mrs P. In further letters in March and September 2021 the CMC elaborated on this. It said:
P had used data from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) to add credibility to its 
quote, but the figures used to calculate the benefits of the system over its lifetime did 
not match the ONS data on which P claimed it was based. The CMC said this was 
evidence that P was systematically and fraudulently inflating the figures to make the 
system and the voltage optimiser appear more attractive to customers.
The voltage optimiser prediction was inaccurate, was not calculated using the 
consensus of independent reports available at the time of sale, and was beyond the 
range of reasonableness.
The personal allowance for electricity savings at 75% was a forecast not made with 
reasonable care and skill. The governments calculation for personal usage is 50%, 
and a fair quote would have used this figure.
The cost of credit was unaccountably omitted from the "Putting it all together" section 
of Ps quote and from the profit calculations.
Ps failure to communicate clear, accurate and balanced information about the 
benefits of having the system contravened the FCAs Principles of Business and the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
The system had failed to generate the savings P had predicted.
In response to the original claim letter, Shawbrook issued a final response and explained 
that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs P or that there were 
any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. However it offered £200 compensation for its 
delay in responding to the claim. Following the new claim letters, Shawbrook did not alter its 
position. Being dissatisfied with those responses, Mr and Mrs P instructed the CMC to bring 
this complaint to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs P, or that an unfair relationship existed.
The CMC disagreed with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
She did not appear to have considered the specific Principles of Business and 
provisions of CONC on which the CMC had relied.
She had not considered whether an unfair relationship had existed (other than 
quoting section 140A of the Act).1
The CMC relies not on statements of fact made by the salesman, but only on implied 
representations.
The tables in the System Analysis section of the quote do not include the cost of 
finance.
Ps quotes since 2020 do not include savings for voltage optimisers. The CMC 
argued that this meant that P must agree that the voltage optimisers do not save 
money, and therefore all of the earlier quotes must have been wrong.
The quote is complex and difficult to understand.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me for review.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read all of the submissions made by the CMC and by Shawbrook, and have taken all 
of these into account when making my decision. But the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
set up to be a quick and informal alternative to the courts. So I will not refer to every 
comment that has been made by the parties. Instead, my decision sets out what I think are 
the most important points in order to explain my decision in a way that is intended to be 
concise and clear.
1 I disagree with this point; in her decision the adjudicator explained why she did not agree with the 
points the CMC had made in support of its contention that there was an unfair relationship. She then 
explicitly concluded that no unfair relationship existed.Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act. Relevant 
rules made by the regulator include Principles 2, 7 and 9; the CMC also relies on certain 
provisions of CONC.
Section 75 of the Act provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using 
credit. As Mr and Mrs P paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook 
agrees that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs P could claim 
against Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs P and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system, and also on the 
alleged breaches of CONC and the Principles of Business by failing to provide relevant 
information in a clear and balanced way.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing him loss.
In the FCAs Principles of Business, Principle 2 requires a firm to conduct its business with 
due care, skill and diligence. Principle 7 says a firm must pay due regard to the information 
needs of its clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and 
not misleading. Principle 9 says a firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability 
of its advice. The CMC argues that Ps quotation breached all of these principles.
CONC 1.2.2R(2) requires a firm which carries on credit-related regulated activities (such as 
entering into a consumer credit agreement as lender, as Shawbrook did) to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that other persons acting on its behalf comply with CONC. The CMC argues 
that Shawbrook failed to ensure that P complied with CONC, with the result that an unfair 
relationship arose between Shawbrook and Mr and Mrs P.
CONC 2.5.3R(2) requires a firm to take reasonable steps to ensure that a product the firm 
recommends is not unsuitable for the customer. CONC 3.3.1R(1) requires a firm to ensure 
that a communication or a financial promotion is clear, fair, and not misleading. The CMC 
says that Ps quotation did not comply with these provisions.
CONC 2.5.3R(1) requires a firm to explain the key features of a regulated credit agreement 
to enable the customer to make an informed choice. CONC 4.2.5R(1) and (2) require a firm 
to provide a customer with an adequate explanation of various matters, including in 
particular the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have 
a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to 
foresee. (Here the agreement refers to the loan agreement, not the contract for the 
purchase of the system.) The CMC says that Ps quotation failed to adequately explain 
certain features of the loan agreement, for example by not including the cost of credit.There is some overlap between each of these provisions, so rather than write about them all 
separately, I will consider whether P adequately and accurately explained the benefits and 
cost of the system (including the cost of finance) overall. I have however taken Ps and 
Shawbrooks obligations under these provisions into account when forming my opinion.
Documents
Shawbrook has provided the quote it says the installer provided to Mr and Mrs P at the time 
of the sale, which is entitled Your Personal Solar Quotation.
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with Mr and Mrs P, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the contract. One of them has signed it.
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and I therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with Mr and 
Mrs Ps description of events, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual 
monthly repayments.
The cost of the system
The cash price was set out clearly in the quote and in the credit agreement as £8,859. 
However, the overall cost to Mr and Mrs P was more than that, due to them paying for the 
system using an interest-bearing loan. Although that is not shown in the System Analysis 
section of the quote, it is shown clearly elsewhere in the quote, where there is a table setting 
out the loan repayments over ten years. That says that Mr and Mrs P will have to make 120 
monthly payments of £115.27.
This information is repeated in the credit agreement, along with the total amount payable, 
£13,932.40. So I think it was made clear to Mr and Mrs P how much they would have to pay.
Alleged misrepresentation: the system would make a profit
The quote included a table setting out the estimated performance of the system over 25 
years. The total income over 25 years was broken down as follows:
Generation tariff: £2,869.66
Export tariff: £1,685.54
Savings on energy bills: £20,192.91
Voltage optimiser savings: £14,855.18
Grand total: £39,603.29
The total is more than the cash price of the system and also more than the total payable 
under the loan agreement. So, I accept that Mr and Mrs P were told that the overall benefits 
of the system over 25 years were estimated to exceed what they would pay for it overall, 
which was £13,932.40.So the question now is whether this was a misrepresentation that induced Mr and Mrs P to 
purchase the system when they otherwise would not have done.
System performance
Based on that table, Im satisfied that the installer told Mr and Mrs P that the system would 
pay for itself by the end of year 15, as the accumulated grand total of income and savings 
would by that time have exceeded the total cost of the system, including the finance costs. If 
that turns out not to be true and if Im satisfied that this induced Mr and Mrs P into entering 
the contract and that they thereby suffered a loss, then that would amount to a 
misrepresentation.
In the quote the installer has estimated that Mr and Mrs Ps system would generate 
2,133 kWh of electricity a year. Mr and Mrs P have provided their meter reading, which 
shows that the system generated 10,291 kWh between the installation in November 2016 
and the date of the reading, 3 November 2022. This works out as an average of 1,724.6 
kWh a year, or about 81% of the estimate. So I am satisfied that the system has significantly 
underperformed compared to Ps estimates from the point of sale.
Im satisfied that the estimated generation and estimated FIT payments and electricity 
savings would have induced Mr and Mrs P into entering the contract. The generation, and 
therefore income, are significantly lower than they were promised, so they have suffered a 
loss. For that reason, I am minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P raised underperformance in their claim to Shawbrook, but I cant see that this 
point has been addressed before. However, I have set out below a way forward in line with 
our usual approach in such cases, in the section titled in bold Fair compensation.
However, before dealing with compensation I will first deal with some of the other complaint 
points raised by the CMC.
Solar panel savings and the self-consumption rate
To calculate the savings from the solar panels, P used a self-consumption rate of 75%. Self-
consumption rate is the proportion of electricity generated by the solar panels that P 
assumed that Mr and Mrs P could use themselves, rather than exporting it to the grid. My 
understanding is that P tailored the self-consumption rate based on what it knew about the 
customer and how they used electricity, and then referring to tables compiled by an industry 
body (the Microgeneration Certification Scheme, or MCS).
For example, since solar power would be generated in daylight hours, a person that is 
usually home during the daytime is able to use more of the power generated than someone 
who only tends to be home during the evenings.
The CMC has argued that P should have used the industry standard self-consumption rate 
of 50% when calculating the savings. But I dont think it was unreasonable for P to tailor the 
self-consumption rate based on the information available to it, using the variable rate 
published by MCS. And I have not seen sufficient evidence to persuade me that the self-
consumption rate used by P was unreasonable in this instance (bearing in mind information 
available to it at the time of sale). Im aware that P has used lower self-consumption rates on 
other quotes that I have seen  which reinforces its claim that it was tailoring it to each 
customer.I think that the electricity savings from the solar panels were based on reasonable 
assumptions about the amount of electricity generated by the system and the self-
consumption rate. So, I dont think those savings estimates were a misrepresentation.
That remains the case even if the savings have not in fact been as high as estimated. The 
savings will be dependent upon how electricity is used in the home and that is beyond Ps 
control. The quote included the following clarification in the section about electricity bill 
savings  The amounts saved will depend on the amounts used. So, I dont think the 
estimated savings were presented as being guaranteed.
Voltage optimiser
The CMC has suggested the estimated voltage optimiser savings were too high, given 
various reports that were available at the time. However, I understand that Ps method of 
calculating the savings was approved by MCS, so I am not persuaded that it was 
unreasonable, even if P has since revised its methodology.
How P calculated the savings was also explained in the quote, with reference to a specific 
report that informed its method of calculation. The quote also included the following 
statement alongside the figures for electricity savings from the voltage optimiser:
Savings are dependent on individual circumstances and may be higher or lower 
than those stated above and are based on the manufacturers own figures.
Overall, I think there were a number of reports which found that voltage optimisers could 
provide various levels of benefit. Considering those reports, I think that Ps estimated voltage 
optimiser savings in this case are not outside of a reasonable range.
One report mentioned by the CMC said that the benefits of voltage optimisers would reduce 
over time. So, the CMC argued that savings from the voltage optimiser should have reduced 
rather than increased as shown in the quote. But it appears to me that P estimated the 
benefit of the voltage optimiser based on what it knew about the product it was selling, Mr 
and Mrs Ps home and how they used electricity. I am not persuaded that Ps estimate of the 
benefit of the voltage optimiser was unreasonable. And Im not persuaded that the benefit of 
the voltage optimiser should have been estimated to reduce each year, rather than increase 
with inflation.
Summary of findings regarding savings
Overall, I think the underlying assumptions used to calculate the savings were reasonable. 
As such I dont think those figures constitute a misrepresentation.
Alleged misrepresentation: ONS data
I have checked the inflation figures used by P in this case to see if there was an error. I can 
see that the figures used do not exactly match the average inflation figures for the ten-year 
period stated on the quote.
However, the figures used by P in the quote are significantly higher than what I have 
calculated they should be. The quote predicts a utility price index of 9.1% based on the data 
for the period 2006 to 2015, but the ONS data for that period gives an average of only 
7.28%. The quote gives the retail price index for the same period as 5.1%, when the ONS data used (according to the quote) gives 2.84%.2 These are significant differences, and 
while I am not persuaded that this must have been deliberate, these errors were still to Mr 
and Mrs Ps detriment. So I am also minded to uphold this complaint on this ground too.
I have taken into account the fact that the quote clearly stated that the inflation rate can go 
up or down, and that the quote gave three different graphs showing the estimated returns if 
inflation was as much as P predicted, if inflation was half as much as P predicted, and if 
there was no inflation at all. But I still think that P ought to have given the correct figures for 
the first two graphs to be properly understood.
Remaining complaint points
Because I have found that misrepresentations were made and I propose to uphold this 
complaint, it is not necessary for me to go on to consider whether there were breaches of 
contract or whether an unfair relationship exists.
I am not persuaded that the quote was complex or difficult to understand (although I have 
found that it was inaccurate). The information is, in my opinion, laid out clearly and in an 
accessible way.
Fair compensation
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by making sure 
that Mr and Mrs P dont suffer a financial loss as a result of the systems underperformance. 
In my view that would mean that the solar panel system should generate roughly what was 
promised in the quote.
This would mean that Shawbrook must:  
a) calculate the difference between what the panels have generated as income (through 
the FIT and savings) for Mr and Mrs P and what the sales paperwork set out as being 
the annual total income savings, and
b) add simple interest to that amount at the rate of 8% a year, and pay the total to Mr 
and Mrs P (either directly or via the CMC).
To ensure that Mr and Mrs P dont lose out going forward, Shawbrook must then:
c) calculate the average annual underperformance percentage so far, and assume that 
the panels will continue to underperform at that rate through to the conclusion of the 
finance agreement,
d) recalculate the total income savings for each year going forward until the conclusion 
of the finance agreement, having applied the percentage reduction identified in 
paragraph c) above,
e) pay Mr and Mrs P the difference between the revised amounts calculated in 
paragraph d) above and the total income savings set out in the sales paperwork.
I will also direct Shawbrook to pay £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused by not 
upholding the claim in the first place. (This is in addition to the £200 already offered in the 
2 Table 43 line 95 and Table 37 column J: see 
https://www.ons.gov.uk/economy/inflationandpriceindices/datasets/consumerpriceinflation/current final response letter.)
My provisional decision
I am currently minded to uphold this complaint in part. Subject to any further representations 
I receive from the parties by the date below, I intend to order Shawbrook Bank Limited to put 
things right in the way Ive set out above.
Responses to my provisional decision
Shawbrook accepted my provisional decision. The CMC did not reply. So there is no reason 
for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Shawbrook Bank Limited to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman