DRN-2794410
The complaint
The complaint is about Mr Bs mortgage account with Santander UK Plc. Hes unhappy that 
Santander has made changes to the account on the sole authority of his former wife, who is 
joint borrower. Hes also unhappy that it hasnt removed him from the mortgage despite a 
court order saying Mrs B should take the mortgage over.
 
What happened
In a recent jurisdiction decision, I explained why my remit to consider this complaint was 
limited to the following issues:
applying a new rate to the mortgage; and
Mr B not having been removed from the mortgage.
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Before I deal with the merits of the complaint, I note that Mr B has expressed his 
disagreement with my jurisdiction decision. I wont be revisiting that here, but I will address 
the comments he made. 
Mr B says he complained about the 2007 switch to interest-only by phone. Our rules dont 
prevent complaints from being started by phone, but they do require that there be written 
evidence of the complaint having been received and/or acknowledged. Here, that wasnt the 
case.
Mr B says that excluding his more recent complaint about Santander not answering 
questions and releasing information has harmed his ability to support his case in the current 
complaint. I understand his position, but ultimately, its for me to judge whether I have all the 
information and evidence I need to decide a complaint fairly and reasonably. Im satisfied 
that I do here.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, for the following 
reasons.
The new rate
In the normal course of business, a lender will expect both parties to a joint mortgage to 
agree to a new rate being applied. But in a situation like this, where the borrowers are no 
longer united and acting in a common purpose, its not uncommon for the request to come 
from only one of the borrowers. When that happens, a lender has a difficult choice to make. 
Refusing the request might cause harm to the party making it; granting it might cause harm 
to the party who didnt. 
This latter point is best illustrated when it comes to a new rate deal; typically the new deal 
will mean less interest is being charged, but may well also come with an early repayment 
charge (ERC) clause attached to it. Refusing a lower rate could cause harm (to both 
borrowers - not just the one who has made the request) but granting it could also cause 
harm (again, potentially to both borrowers) if subsequent circumstances result in an ERC 
being applied.
In this specific case, the new rate that Santander applied to the mortgage (which I wrongly 
described as fixed in the jurisdiction decision) was lower, so has resulted in less interest 
being charged, and where arrears exist, they will accrue more slowly. But it didnt come with 
an ERC clause. Applying the principle I referenced a moment ago, refusing the lower rate 
risked causing harm, but agreeing to it did not. For that reason, notwithstanding that 
Santander told Mr B in 2009 that it wouldnt apply future changes without both parties 
consent, I dont find that it treated Mr B unfairly when it applied the new rate without asking 
him first.
Mr B not having been removed from the mortgage.
Mr B and his former wife were divorced more than ten years ago. A court ordered at the time 
that Mrs B should be responsible for making the mortgage payments, should indemnify Mr B 
against liability for the mortgage debt, and should use her best endeavours to take over the 
mortgage in her own name. Mr B argues that in the light of this, its unfair that he faces the 
prospect of Santander still expecting him to pay the mortgage off when the term ends.
This is a horrible dilemma for Mr B, and I have considerable sympathy for him, but the 
uncomfortable truth is that Santander is not to blame for his situation being what it is 
currently. Santander wasnt party to the legal proceedings that resulted in the court order, 
and the order doesnt bind Santander in any way. 
Santander cant simply remove Mr B from the mortgage unilaterally; it could only do so if 
Mrs B formally applied to take the mortgage over in her name, and her application was 
accepted. I emphasise that latter point because, granting such a request (if made) wouldnt 
be a formality. Santander would have to assess and underwrite the request by reference to 
its current affordability criteria (much as any lender would do for a new mortgage application) 
and make a decision on whether to allow Mrs B to take sole responsibility for the mortgage. 
In the meantime, Santander can fairly and reasonably continue to treat this as a joint 
mortgage where both parties are responsible for repaying it. The indemnity against Mr B 
having any further liability for the mortgage only binds Mrs B. 
If Mr B wants to find a remedy to his current circumstances (and I fully understand why he 
would wish to) he might be best served seeking legal advice on the situation between him 
and his former wife. But for the reasons Ive explained, Santander hasnt done anything 
wrong or treated him unfairly in respect of the elements of the complaint Im able to decide.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I make no other order or award. My final decision concludes 
this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman