DRN-3787869
The complaint
Mr H complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) rejected a claim he made 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act). Mr H is represented by a 
claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In January 2018, Mr H purchased a battery and inverter along with an intelligent 
management and monitoring system  (the system) to be integrated with an existing solar 
panel system at his property. Mr H paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement 
provided by Omni. 
In January 2022, the CMC made a claim on Mr Hs behalf to Omni. It said that the system 
had been misrepresented to Mr H at the time of sale in that he was told that the system 
would pay for itself because the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the savings 
made on his energy bills. The CMC said that in March 2021 the system stopped working. 
And that in December 2021 Mr H had the system inspected and replaced since it was 
beyond repair. 
Omni rejected the claim. It said that there was no evidence to support the allegation of 
misrepresentation. And that Mr H had contacted Omni in March 2021 to tell it that the system 
had stopped working. He asked if Omni could help, given the supplier had gone out of 
business and hed been unable to contact the manufacturer to make a warranty claim. Omni 
says it sent Mr H a claim form and asked him to return this to Omni so it could investigate 
further. Omni says that Mr H did not return the claim form. And that because he paid to 
replace the system before Omni could investigate the problem, there was no way for it to 
confirm what the problem was or whether Omni had any liability.
Our adjudicator considered the matter but did not uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed. He 
said he had been told that the system would make approximately £700 per year. And that he 
didnt return the claim form because he was told that it was the manufacturer he needed to 
speak to. 
As the matter could not be resolved, Ive been asked to make a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under section 75 of the Act, Omni is liable for any misrepresentation or breach of contract on 
the part of the supplier. Mr H alleges misrepresentation (that the savings would cover the 
monthly loan repayments according to the CMC or return approximately £700 per year 
according to Mr H) and breach of contract (the system was not fit for purpose as it broke 
down within three years when it had a ten-year warranty).
Misrepresentation
To uphold a claim of misrepresentation Id need to be satisfied that the supplier had made an 
untrue statement of fact which induced Mr H to enter the contract, causing him loss.
Ive considered the evidence in this case. This includes Mr Hs testimony and the CMCs 
comments, plus the sales contract, satisfaction note, loan agreement and Mr Hs electricity 
bills. None of these documents set out the estimated benefits of the system. 
There are two different allegations here. In the initial claim the CMC said Mr H was told the 
savings from the system would cover the loan repayments. The loan agreement shows the 
loan was to be repaid over seven years with repayments of £93.09 per month, which 
equates to £1,117.08 per year. So, according to the CMC, Mr H was told the system would 
save Mr H at least £1,117.08 per year. 
However, in responding to our adjudicator, Mr H alleges that he was told he could save 
£700.00 per year. This inconsistency means that Mr Hs and the CMCs allegations are not 
as persuasive as they might have been if they had been consistent throughout. I also have 
to think about whether the allegations are plausible. 
The system consisted primarily of a battery, which could save Mr H money on his electricity 
bills. His electricity supplier projected in December 2017 (as shown on his bill and based on 
his previous usage) to be £560.92 over 12 months. That equates to £46.74 per month. So, 
the maximum possible savings that Mr H could make would be £46.74 per month, or 
£560.92 per year  because he could not save more than he was spending on electricity. 
However, to get such a saving would mean that the system would allow Mr H to only use 
electricity from his solar panels and not buy any from his electricity supplier. That seems 
very unlikely to be possible. Most domestic solar panel systems would not generate enough 
electricity each year to allow that, even before thinking about variations in how much it could 
generate throughout the year  much more electricity is generated during the summer due to 
there being more daylight hours.
The loan repayments amounted to £1,117.08 per year. The maximum possible electricity 
savings Mr H could make were £560.92 per year, although realistically the potential savings 
wouldve been much less. Nevertheless, this maximum amount is far less than the loan 
repayments. So, I think it is very unlikely that the supplier wouldve said that the system 
would generate savings of either £700.00 per year or that the savings would cover the loan 
repayments. 
As such, I think the allegations made here are not very plausible. And even if the supplier 
had made such a claim, I would expect Mr H to have a rough idea of what he spends on 
electricity and that he could not save more than this. In light of this, I do not think there was 
any misrepresentation in this instance. So, I do not uphold this part of the complaint. 
Breach of contract
There is an expectation that the system supplied would be fit for purpose and that it is 
installed with reasonable care and skill. If it is not, that may be a breach of contract. 
Generally speaking, if a system fails within six months of installation and the problem cannot 
be resolved, it may be assumed that it was poorly installed or not fit for purpose from the 
start. In that case, under a section 75 claim, the lender may not need to inspect the system 
or receive a report from a relevant expert explaining what the problem was. 
But in this case the system worked properly for over three years. So, Omni would be within 
its rights to inspect the system or require evidence of what the problem was, so it could assess if it had any liability. 
Here, Mr H contacted Omni to see if it could help. It sent him a claim form (once by email 
and once by post because Mr H was having problems with his computer) and asked him to 
return this to Omni so it could investigate. Mr H did not return the claim form to Omni. 
Mr H says this was because he was told that it was the manufacturer he had to speak to. But 
Ive listened to his calls with Omni, and Omni did not tell Mr H this. Omni asked Mr H to fill in 
the claim form and return it to Omni  so that it could see if it could help. 
Instead, Mr H paid for the system to be replaced some months later. Mr H has not provided 
an expert report setting out what the problem was. So, there is insufficient evidence to say 
that the system was not fit for purpose or that it was not installed with due care and skill. 
Because of this, I cant reasonably conclude that there was a breach of contract or that Omni 
has any liability in relation to the system failing. So, I do not uphold this part of the complaint.
Summary
Im not persuaded that Omni has any liability under Section 75 of the Act, since I dont think 
there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the part of the supplier. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman