DRN-2159035
The complaint
Mr H and Miss W complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (previously when it 
was trading as Leeds Permanent Building Society) mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
Leeds Permanent Building Society actually sold the mortgage and PPI to Mr H and Miss W. 
But Halifax is now responsible for dealing with this complaint. So, to keep things simpler, in 
my decision Ill just refer to Halifax as the business that sold the PPI. 
What happened
Mr H and Miss W took out a mortgage in 1992 and they were sold PPI around the same 
time. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr H and Miss Ws mis-selling complaint. 
Mr H and Miss W didnt agree with this view. They mainly told us they took out PPI only 
because Halifax told them that doing so would almost guarantee their acceptance for the 
mortgage they wanted and they werent offered the chance to look elsewhere for other PPI. 
And Mr H and Miss W said they didnt need PPI as they had other means to rely on if they 
werent working. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr H and Miss Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax couldnt provide any documents from the PPI sale so Ive seen nothing signed by 
Mr H and Miss W from then. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not 
surprising, given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available. 
I wouldnt expect Halifax or Mr H and Miss W to have kept this for so long.  
Ive taken into account everything Mr H and Miss W have said, including what theyve told 
me about feeling they had no option but to agree to take out PPI. But it wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect Mr H and Miss W to recall exactly what was said so long ago. So what 
they say now about the way the PPI was sold to them isnt enough on its own for me to be 
able to uphold the complaint. 
I must look at all the available information and decide what I think is most likely.  
Mr H and Miss Ws mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for a long period 
of time. Their home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly mortgage repayments were 
protected if either or both of them couldnt work. Looking at their circumstances at the time 
I think that PPI offered them protection that they couldve benefitted from having. 
On balance, I think its more likely that Mr H and Miss W decided they wanted to protect their 
home by having the benefits the policy offered them and it was added on to their mortgage 
account when they chose to buy the PPI. Although I can completely understand if theyve 
forgotten this now. 
Although Halifax couldnt confirm how it sold the PPI, looking at this complaint on the basis 
that Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr H and Miss W gives their complaint the best chance 
of success. As the circumstances of this sale arent clear, I think its fair to do this. I say this 
because if a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give 
important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure 
the cover it recommends is suitable.  
It looks to me as if a PPI recommendation was suitable based on what Ive seen of 
Mr H and Miss Ws circumstances at the time. 
Ive seen nothing that suggests they werent eligible for the policy. And as both 
Mr H and Miss W were in work and contributing towards the mortgage I can see why they 
mightve both wanted PPI.
The policy covered them both in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment and it 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months each time they claimed successfully. They couldve 
made repeated claims. So PPI provided long term protection for the mortgage.  
Miss W couldnt recall her sick pay. Mr H told us he had some sick pay entitlement  but it 
looks like he wouldve gone down to half pay after 6 months off work sick. The policy 
wouldve paid out in full for longer  and on top of his sick pay. Bearing in mind that Mr H 
mightve also had some additional costs if he was too unwell to go back to work or disabled, 
I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
No job can be guaranteed to be secure indefinitely. The policy wouldve also protected 
Mr H and Miss W if they became unexpectedly unemployed.  
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mr H and Miss W if they were off 
work sick. And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money they mightve 
got, giving them some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Ive taken into account that Mr H and Miss W told us they had had some savings and money 
in shares. 
But they couldnt be sure if they wouldve always had savings to depend on if theyd needed 
to make a claim. 
And, if they chose to borrow the money they required to buy their home rather than use up 
all their savings, it looks like Mr H and Miss W mightve preferred not to spend all their savings or they had other plans for that money. Having PPI meant they could keep savings 
intact to provide financial security for the future  or to draw upon in an emergency. 
And they wouldnt have been forced to sell any shares which I think ideally they probably 
wouldve either preferred to keep as a long term investment and/or sell when they could be 
sure of getting a good price. 
Overall, I think that having cover in place so they couldve continued to make their monthly 
mortgage repayments without having to sell investments wouldve provided a useful extra 
benefit to Mr H and Miss W if they couldnt work. 
I dont feel that Mr H and Miss Ws circumstances made a PPI recommendation unsuitable.
With PPI in place Mr H and Miss W could be sure theyd be able to keep on paying the 
mortgage and protect their home even if they couldnt work. 
So, looking at their circumstances at the time, I think the PPI couldve provided Mr H and 
Miss W with a useful benefit and it was suitable for them. 
Its possible some of the information Halifax gave Mr H and Miss W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if that 
wouldve affected Mr H and Miss W. 
So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
made any difference to Mr H and Miss Ws decision to take out PPI. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr H and Miss W at the time they bought the 
policy. So its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. 
But I think they chose to take out the policy when they didnt have to and so it seems they 
did want to have this type of cover. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr H and Miss W so thats not a 
reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
On balance, I think Mr H and Miss W still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd 
been given clearer information as the policy gave them useful protection in their particular 
situation. 
This means, based on all the information Ive seen, I havent seen enough to make me think 
that Mr H and Miss W lost out as a result of anything Halifax did wrong when it sold them this 
PPI. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out 
the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Susan WebbOmbudsman