DRN-3297086
The complaint
Mrs L complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc incorrectly recorded missed payments on her 
credit file resulting in the decline of a mortgage application.
What happened
Mrs L has a loan with HSBC. In or around March 2020, she told them her income had been 
negatively impacted as a result of the global pandemic. She asked HSBC what support they 
could offer her as she was struggling to meet her loan repayments.
In the absence of a formal solution, HSBC agreed to give Mrs L 60 days breathing space 
where she wasnt required to make payments. Shortly after this, Mrs L applied to HSBC for a 
payment holiday. But HSBC declined her application on the basis she already had loan 
payment arrears as a result of the breathing space agreed. So, Mrs L complained to HSBC.
HSBC responded to Mrs Ls complaint in June 2020. They agreed to further consider her 
application for a payment holiday, apologised for the trouble and upset caused and paid 
compensation of £50. HSBC later agreed to provide the requested payment holiday and said 
this would be backdated to cover the payments due in April, May, June and July 2020.
HSBC recorded missed payments on Mrs Ls credit file in respect of the four months covered 
under the payment holiday. In November 2020, they arranged for these to be removed from 
her credit file with the credit reference agencies. But they only removed three of the missed 
payments.
In or around December 2020, Mrs L contacted HSBC again. She wasnt happy that she was 
receiving calls about arrears on her loan given theyd agreed a payment holiday. She was 
also worried this had impacted her credit file with the credit reference agencies.
HSBC responded to Mrs Ls complaint in January 2021. They said theyd made a mistake as 
the repayment due in July 2020 had been reported as missed and theyd failed to include 
this in the amendment made on her credit file. They confirmed this had now been resolved 
and also applied a credit of £169.21 to her loan by way of compensation.
Mrs L wasnt happy with HSBCs response to her complaint. She thought theyd taken too 
long to correct her credit history which had been adversely affected as a result. She said this 
led to her mortgage application being declined. So, she had to approach a mortgage broker, 
resulting in further costs. Mrs L decided to refer her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators considered Mrs Ls complaint. During our adjudicators 
investigation, HSBC decided that while theyd compensated Mrs L for the original payment 
holiday decline and the reported missed payments, they hadnt reflected the overall service 
and delays. So, they offered a further £100 to reflect this. Our adjudicator thought their offer, 
coupled with the previous compensation paid was fair.
Mrs L disagreed with our adjudicators findings. She thought HSBCs offer should reflect that 
her mortgage application was declined and the resulting broker fees shed incurred. As an 
agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Ls complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders on 2 April 2020 which 
explained what it expected from businesses during the exceptional circumstances arising out 
of the global pandemic. It provided guidance asking businesses to consider payment 
deferrals of up to three months under regulated credit agreements. 
The FCA said their guidance applied where consumers were already experiencing or 
reasonably expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of the pandemic. 
The FCA also said that firms should ensure that there is no negative impact on the 
consumers credit file because of the payment deferral.
When Mrs L first contacted HSBC, this guidance hadnt been issued. So, I think HSBC acted 
appropriately by offering Mrs L breathing space. But after the FCAs guidance was released, 
HSBC declined Mrs Ls application. This despite her having told them that her income had 
been impacted by the global pandemic. Ultimately, HSBC addressed this and back dated the 
payment holiday, agreeing it for four months. I think that was the right thing to do. They paid 
Mrs L compensation of £50, which feels fair here.
Unfortunately, HSBC reported the repayments under the payment holiday as being missed. 
This didnt meet the requirements of the FCAs guidance. So, I believe they were also right 
to correct that. Unfortunately, they only amended three of the missed repayments. So, the 
July repayment was still reported as missed.
HSBC have accepted their mistake here and have since rectified it. Theyve also paid the 
equivalent of one months loan repayment by way of further compensation. Again, this 
response feels fair to me.
Mrs L insists her mortgage was declined as a direct consequence of HSBCs mistake. So, I 
asked her to provide confirmation from the mortgage lender this was the case. Unfortunately, 
Mrs L has been unable to provide this. 
I fully appreciate Mrs Ls frustration and concern about the error that was made here. Finding 
incorrect information recorded about you at credit reference agencies can be very worrying. 
Its clear that HSBC made a mistake. Because of this, I can see why Mrs L thinks that this 
caused the declined mortgage. 
But there are many other factors that impact upon a mortgage application. Each lender uses 
their own criteria. This is tailored to the product they are offering, the customers they wish to 
attract and the market circumstances. Their assessment criteria can change regularly. The 
decision process would consider a range of factors about the applicant. The information on a 
credit file is only one part of that. It wouldnt necessarily lead to an agreement or decline on 
its own. So, it isnt possible to conclude that Mrs Ls mortgage application was declined as a 
direct consequence of HSBCs mistake.
I also asked Mrs L to provide something to support her assertion that HSBCs mistake left 
her no other option but to engage with a mortgage broker. While she has provided a copy of 
a payment receipt from the broker, this doesnt suggest this was her only option or that this 
was because of something HSBC did. Different mortgage brokers cover their costs in 
different ways. Some charge fees while others rely solely upon commission from the lender. 
Mrs L chose to use this particular broker. So, I cant reasonably conclude that the costs 
incurred were as a direct consequence of HSBCs mistake here.
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Mrs L did experience some inconvenience. But I think the 
amounts already paid, together with HSBCs subsequent offer, feels fair in all the 
circumstances here. I appreciate that Mrs L doesnt agree. But it isnt the role of this service 
to make awards in order to penalise HSBC for their mistakes. Any award is considered based upon the impact their mistake had upon Mrs L. And I think HSBCs offer does that 
here. So, I shall be supporting that in my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
In addition to the compensation already paid of £50 and £169.21, I require HSBC UK Bank 
Plc to pay further compensation to Mrs L of £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman