DRN-2852506
The complaint
Mr C says Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) unduly delayed execution of his order to 
buy £16,500 worth of Whitbread Ordinary (WO) shares on 25 March 2020; that his attempt 
to cancel the order prior to execution  and because of the execution delay he was 
experiencing  was obstructed by a fault on its platform (and HSDL delayed in answering his 
telephone calls at the time); and that, as a result of the delayed execution, his order was 
filled at an unfavourable price (which could have been avoided but for the delay and would 
have been avoided if HSDL consulted him beforehand to highlight the unfavourable price).
What happened
HSDL disputes the complaint. It mainly says:
Mr C opened his account on 24 March 2020 and at 07:57 the following morning (25 
March) he placed his order. 
This was defined as a delayed order because it was placed outside trading hours for 
the relevant London Stock market. The platform screen he used to place the order 
gave notice of this before he submitted the order and, also before submission, gave 
notice that the order will be executed as soon as practically possible after the market 
reopened (on a fair and due turn basis), notice that this will be done at the best price 
available and notice that, in the alternative, he could select a limit order to avoid 
variances in execution price. 
[Evidence of the screen he would have seen has been shared with this service.]
Mr C chose to submit the delayed order as it was and chose not to protect himself 
from price variances through a limit order. Furthermore, once submitted the former 
could not be cancelled, other than through manual effort (which could not be 
guaranteed) if a client telephoned, but the latter could be cancelled online.
There were no live prices at the time he placed the order, only indicative prices from 
the day before. 
The market opened at 08:00 and due to price volatility that immediately follows 
market opening the delayed orders were not executed for around the first eight to 
nine minutes. Thereafter they were executed in a queue and on the fair and due turn 
basis, whereby each order was executed according to its place in the queue. Given 
that Mr Cs order was submitted shortly before the market opened it would have been 
a late entry into the queue so it would have been behind those submitted earlier 
(after the market closed the previous day). In addition, his order exceeded the 
Normal Market Size (NMS) for WO, so when it was its turn to be executed the 
execution had to be done manually. For these reasons  and because of unusually 
higher order numbers and price volatility caused by concerns about COVID 19 at the 
time  the order was eventually executed at 08:24, at a valid price and without the 
sort of price premium usually associated with manually executed large orders.
All the above were/are consistent with the terms of service agreed by Mr C for his 
account and with the associated Order Execution Policy (OEP) used by HSDL.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. She reached this conclusion on grounds broadly the same as those submitted by 
HSDL. With regards to the timing of execution she also noted that Mr C had acknowledged a 
notice given to him before he placed his order, which said  
Due to the current market conditions were experiencing high trading volumes- please be 
aware that it may take longer than usual to execute your order. Any trade placed as a 
negotiated order will be dealt with at the earliest opportunity at the best price available at the 
time, we complete the trade. 
Overall, she was satisfied that Mr C was informed of the circumstances relevant to execution 
of his order before he submitted it; that the same applies to the uncertainty of the best price 
execution basis he chose; that there is no evidence to establish his claim about technical 
problems in the platform; and that even if he got through to HSDL on the telephone, 
cancellation of his delayed order could not be guaranteed.
Mr C disputed this outcome and said:
He had no prior notice of the NMS for WO and of the effect that would have on his 
order.
He did not place his order at 07:57 on 25 March, he placed it in the evening of 24 
March, so if it was given an incorrect position in the queue HSDL and its flawed 
system are responsible for that.
HSDLs suggestion that his order was executed at a good price misrepresents the 
fact, supported by historical pricing data, that an earlier execution would have 
achieved a better price.
He had problems in trying to use the limit order function because the platform was 
faulty and, in any case, there was nothing wrong in his choice of best market price 
execution, the problem was/is HSDLs failure to manage the order efficiently.
HSDLs telephone records should show his attempted calls to cancel the order, which 
went unanswered.
HSDLs concession of a nine minutes delay before it began executing orders shows 
negligence on its part, given the time sensitive nature of share dealing.
The crux of his complaint is HSDLs platform failure which prevented him from 
cancelling the order.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. Overall, I am persuaded by the submissions from HSDL 
(as summarised above) and I am satisfied that they are broadly supported by available 
evidence. In contrast, Mr Cs key arguments are not supported by the balance of evidence 
and are not persuasive. I find as follows (beginning with Mr Cs latest submissions):
Mr C did not place his order in the evening of 24 March. He placed it at 07:57 on 25 
March as HSDL says. A copy of the recording of his telephone call to HSDL in the 
morning of 25 March has been shared with this service. In the recording, Mr C can be 
heard saying that he wanted to  query a trade that [he] put through this morning 
 [my emphasis]; that he was unhappy it took  about 25 minutes  for the order 
to be executed, which does not describe an execution delay of hours between the 
evening of 24 March and the morning of 25 March, but instead closely describes the 
time between placement at 07:57 and execution at 08:24; and, importantly, that he  put through the trade about seven fifty five this morning  [my emphasis], which 
closely matches the time of 07:57 confirmed in HSDLs records. I am satisfied that 
his order was placed at 07:57 on 25 March.
The recordings contents do not support Mr Cs reference to telephone calls to HSDL, 
to cancel the order, that HSDL did not answer. In the recording he says his attempts 
to cancel the order were made through the platforms web-chat facility which was not 
working. HSDLs telephone records seem unlikely to clarify this any further. Whilst 
such records could show answered calls  and, indeed, we have been given a 
recording of the call from Mr C that HSDL answered  I do not expect they could 
show unanswered calls. As the investigator said, there is no evidence to support his 
assertion that the platform was faulty at the time. The same applies to the limit order 
function in the platform. I have seen no evidence that this was faulty. It is also 
noteworthy that Mr C does not appear to mention, during the telephone call 
recording, that he sought to use a limit order but had a problem in doing so.
HSDL is not unique in applying caution, and therefore consuming some time, in 
executing orders immediately upon market opening, and its mention of price volatility 
being usual at such time is not unreasonable. Such volatility at such time can happen 
and can result in unreliability in market prices  unreliable prices which can make the 
execution of orders unsafe. I make no general finding on Mr Cs claim that this was 
negligent on HSDLs part. Depending on the specific facts of a particular case and 
with due regard given to the general nature of prices immediately upon market 
opening, a delay before beginning order executions might or might not be negligent, 
but I have not seen evidence of the negligence Mr C alleges in this respect.
Notice that large orders  like Mr Cs order, which exceeded the NMS for WO  could 
be treated differently exists within the OEP for HSDLs service. The OEP is 
incorporated into the terms of service he agreed, and it is a document he ought 
reasonably to have been familiar with (given that it gave information on how trade 
orders were to be managed). It explains that HSDLs usual price polling arrangement 
for obtaining best prices for orders might not apply where a client is trading a large 
number of shares, and that, instead, such a trade could be worked manually by its 
dealers. 
Mr C was aware of the difference between the order he placed and the alternative 
limit order, which he did not place. He knew this before submitting his order. He also 
knew this in the context of the warning he received on the platform  as quoted 
above  before submitting his order. There is further relevant evidence in the 
telephone call recording, where Mr C can be heard affirming his awareness that the 
execution price for his order could not be guaranteed, especially as it was submitted 
outside market hours. HSDL bears and shares no responsibility for the type of order 
he selected and for his decision not to opt for the limit order (and its associated 
benefits in terms of execution price).
Mr C says the execution delay of 24 minutes, after market opening, was 
unreasonable in his case. Aside from the initial eight to nine minutes delay that I have 
already addressed (above), I consider that the following cannot reasonably be 
discounted  the likelihood that trading numbers were higher than normal at the time 
in March 2020 when the nations concerns (which undoubtedly would have included 
traders and investors concerns) about COVID 19 was growing rapidly; the likelihood 
that this resulted in price volatility in the market and possibly or probably extended to 
the WO shares in the morning of 25 March; the fact that placement of his order 
around three minutes before market opening meant his order was further back in the execution queue than those placed earlier (or much earlier); the fact that his order 
was large and was beyond the NMS for WO, so the applicable manual execution 
reasonably consumed additional time of its own; and the fact that Mr C was pre-
warned about high trading volumes and the likelihood of delayed execution. On 
balance and in this context, I do not consider that the 24 minutes delay was 
unreasonable in his case.
HSDL provided an execution only service, so it was not obliged to consider and/or 
advise on the merits (or otherwise) of Mr Cs trades and was not obliged to discuss or 
verify pricing suitability with him before his order was executed. He was aware, from 
the type of order he selected and submitted, that the execution price could be 
anything other than the indicative price(s) he saw at the time of submission, could not 
be guaranteed and was not controlled by any limit. 
I do not find that HSDL is responsible for unduly delaying execution of Mr Cs order, 
so it is not necessary to consider redress in his case. For that reason, it is also not 
necessary to consider whether (or not) his order could have been filled at a better 
price if it was executed earlier.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman