DRN-3389582
The complaint
Mr Ms complaining about how hes been treated by HSBC UK Bank Plc when they closed 
his current account without notice.
What happened
Mr M had a current account with HSBC. Over around a six-month period in 2021, Mr M 
contacted HSBC by phone around ninety times to ask what the balance on his account was. 
On 1 November 2021 HSBC wrote to Mr M to tell him they were closing his account 
immediately. They said this was in line with their terms and conditions. 
Mr M complained to HSBC. He said they were discriminating against him and bullying him by 
closing his account without notice. HSBC sent him their final response, which said they didnt 
think theyd treated him unfairly.
Mr M contacted us to raise a complaint. He said that HSBC had closed his account without 
notice due to the offensive language he used on the phone with them. He accepted he used 
offensive language  but says this was due to his health condition, and he thinks he was 
entitled to a warning before the account was closed. 
He said HSBC blocked his account due to the problems he was having with security, but he 
wasnt given a proper reason why the account was closed.
He said he couldnt get access through the ATM because there was a block on the account 
which caused him inconvenience  and prompted his frustration. He thinks his accounts 
been closed deliberately and at the instigation of the police.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. But Mr M didnt agree. So his complaint has 
been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M has already raised a complaint with our service about his use of HSBCs telephone 
banking, and their security questions.
On 10 December 2020 an Ombudsman decided, in summary, that HSBC were entitled to 
decide what security questions they asked, and it wasnt unfair for them to have placed 
blocks on Mr Ms account when he failed security - which meant he needed to attend a 
branch to carry out his banking. So Im unable to re-visit these points of complaint here.
Mr Ms mentioned that he feels over the last year there was a block on him using his card. I 
can see from the call history notes HSBC have provided that Mr Ms specifically mentioned 
this in calls on 5 August 2021 and 11 August 2021. But his statements show he used his 
card to make purchases on both these days. So it doesnt look like there was a block in 
place. And even if there was, I dont think HSBC would have been unfair to apply it, as Mr M 
continued to fail security questions when he contacted them.
I think the main focus of the complaint Mr Ms brought to us now is that HSBC have treated 
him unfairly by closing his account. So thats what Im going to concentrate on here.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms account with HSBC. They say that 
accounts can be closed, without notice, in the following circumstances:
Youve behaved inappropriately, either to us or when using our services. For example, 
youve acted abusively, offensively, or violently towards employees, or used abusive 
language in payment instructions.
Mr M has repeatedly used extremely abusive language during his conversations with HSBC. 
Hes told us that his health condition causes him to behave in this way. HSBC said theyre 
unable to note Mr Ms health condition on his account without his permission. And due to the 
nature of his conversations with them, theyve not been able to explore if there are any 
reasonable adjustments they can make for him because calls have been ended due to Mr 
Ms language before any meaningful conversation could take place.
Mr M says HSBC didnt give him any warning that his account was going to be closed, 
although they did give him warnings about his language and behaviour during the calls. 
Ive thought carefully about what both sides have said here. Its not clear how far HSBC have 
considered Mr Ms health condition in their decision to close his account (if at all.) I think they 
should have been aware of Mr Ms health condition, because it was referred to in his 
previous complaint with our service. So, I think HSBC should have known that they should 
be doing something different in how they communicated with him. They could have been 
more proactive in contacting Mr M to discuss if or how his health condition affects his 
behaviour, and to see if they could offer any specialist support.
However, in Mr Ms previous complaint, our investigator explained to him that HSBC could 
only consider making reasonable adjustments if Mr M talked to them about his personal 
circumstances. But I cant see that Mr Ms ever made HSBC aware of any reasonable 
adjustments he needs. 
I do think Mr M should be aware he had some responsibility to work with HSBC if he 
required reasonable adjustments to be made which would limit or prevent his offensive 
language and behaviour towards their staff, which I think he understands was unacceptable. 
And even if HSBC had proactively contacted Mr M to discuss how they communicated with 
him, given the nature of his other calls with them I dont think the outcome would have been 
any different. 
I agree with HSBC that its not reasonable for their staff to have to put up with the extremely 
offensive language Mr M used in his calls. And its clear that the relationship between Mr M 
and HSBC has now irretrievably broken down.
Mr M feels HSBC have discriminated against him due to his health condition. But having 
looked at all the evidence I dont think they have. I can also reassure Mr M that Ive not seen 
anything in HSBCs records to show the police were involved in them closing his account.I do appreciate how strongly Mr M feels about his complaint, and Im sorry to disappoint him. 
But overall I dont think HSBC have treated him unreasonably or unfairly by closing his 
account without notice. So Im not going to ask them to do anything more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman