DRN-2947176
The complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont reimburse him for card 
transactions and cheques he says were made by a third party, who Ill call A.
What happened
Mr N had a bank account with Halifax  which had issued him with a debit card and a 
chequebook. In early 2016, Mr N moved abroad. His spouse, A, remained in the UK. Mr N 
says he occasionally returned to the UK to visit, and that he left his chequebooks and debit 
cards for his UK accounts at his address in the UK.
But in August 2018, Mr N says he discovered that A had used his accounts without his 
knowledge or permission. Mr N says he contacted his local branch for advice in September 
2018  and in January 2019 Mr N raised concerns with Halifax specifically about two 
cheques which had debited the account. Mr N says he was told Halifax couldnt help 
because of the time that had passed since the cheques had been paid. 
Mr N and A have since divorced. In May 2020 Mr N contacted Halifax to ask it to investigate 
cheques and transfers made from his account to A, which he said he suspected had been 
made without his authority. And he also said that there were a number of cash machine 
withdrawals and debit card payments made from his account without his consent. These 
included:
£8,720 in cheques.
£2,050 in disputed ATM withdrawals
£31.59 in disputed card payments.
Halifax looked into this. It thought Mr N had told A the PIN for his card. Other payments, 
which Mr A didnt dispute, had been made around the same time as the payments hed 
disputed. And in view of the time over which all these transactions had taken place, Halifax 
didnt think A had acted without his authority. It paid Mr N £250 to reflect the time it had 
taken to reach a decision, but didnt uphold the complaint overall.
Mr N then referred the matter to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. She didnt think Halifax needed to refund the 
payments made by card  she thought Mr N had shared his PIN with A, and so she thought 
hed failed to comply with his obligations under the Payment Services Regulations 2017. But 
these regulations didnt apply to cheques, and as she thought it was likely that A, and not Mr 
N, had signed the five cheques Mr N had disputed, she thought Halifax needed to refund 
them.
Mr N agreed with our investigator. Halifax didnt agree, and so the complaint was referred to 
me.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 25 November 2021. I said that Id 
considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of the complaint.
Mr N had disputed transactions by card and by cheque. In the case of the card transactions, 
the relevant law was the Payment Services Regulations 2009 and the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017. These provided that a payment transaction was only to be regarded as 
having been authorised by the payer if the payer has consented to it. And where a payment 
wasnt authorised, the payment service provider may need to refund the unauthorised 
transaction to the payer. 
However, the regulations also said that the payer will be liable for losses incurred in respect 
of an unauthorised transaction where the payer has, either with intent or gross negligence, 
failed to comply with his obligations in relation to payment instruments and personalised 
security credentials.
This meant Mr N needed to use the payment instrument in accordance with the terms and 
conditions governing its issue and use and notify the payment service provider without 
undue delay on becoming aware of the loss, theft, misappropriation or unauthorised use of 
the payment instrument. He also needed to take reasonable steps to keep safe his 
personalised security credentials relating to the card.
The payment services regulations do not apply to cheques. Generally speaking, if a 
customer didnt sign a cheque, they wont be bound by it. Where a bank pays out on the 
basis of a forged signature, it does so without its customers mandate, and will generally 
have to make good any loss the payment caused to the customer. However, if a customer 
becomes aware that someone has forged their signature on a cheque or cheques, they have 
a duty to tell the bank without delay. If they dont, they may not be able to recover the value 
of the cheques from the bank. 
With this in mind I looked at the card transactions.
Mr N had sent us copies of credit card statements showing that around the time some of 
these transactions were made he was spending money abroad. So while I recognised that 
the transactions were authenticated by chip and PIN, I was satisfied that the transactions 
werent made by him because the card in question was still in the UK, and Mr N wasnt. 
I therefore went on to consider who made these transactions. Mr N says these transactions 
were made at a time when he was abroad. I had no reason to doubt what Mr N had said  
this was consistent with the credit card statements he had sent us. Hes said the cards were 
kept at the UK address, and that A had helped him set up his PIN, so Im satisfied she would 
have known Mr Ns PIN. So on balance, I thought it was most likely A made the payments.
I also thought about whether A made these transactions with Mr Ns permission. I note Mr N 
said he never gave A permission to use his account. And I saw hed provided 
correspondence from A saying shed taken some money from his accounts for her own use 
without his permission. I accepted it was possible that A was acting with Mr Ns permission  
I noted that Mr N says A dealt with the finances in their relationship, and he says he 
sometimes paid money to A to pay for joint expenses. But on balance, and considering all 
the circumstances here, I thought it was most likely A was acting without Mr Ns permission.
The regulations, however, meant that Mr N can nevertheless be held liable for these 
transactions if, with intent or gross negligence, he failed to keep his personal security 
credentials secure. Based on what Mr N had said, hed shared his PIN with A  he said A set 
this up for him as he didnt know how to do it.And so as Mr N had given A his PIN, I didnt think it was unfair of Halifax to refuse to 
reimburse these transactions. So I wasnt minded to ask Halifax to do anything in respect of 
the disputed card payments.
Turning to the cheques, Mr N had questioned five cheques, with a value of £8,720. This 
comprised:
Payments of £340 and £350 to A in April and May 2016.
A payment of £30 to a bank in May 2016
A payment of £3,000 to A in July 2016, and
A payment of £5,000 to A in December 2016.
Mr N didnt recall making these payments  he said, in particular, that the cheques for £340 
and £3,000 were drawn and cashed at times when he knows he was abroad  and he says 
he knows the cheque for £3,000 was paid into As account. He thinks the signatures on all 
these cheques were forged.
Wed asked Halifax if it could provide the signature mandate for Mr Ns account. Halifax said 
it couldnt now provide this  it says that when banking information was transferred from one 
of its historic systems, a new signature mandate wasnt created for Mr N on the new system. 
So I couldnt say whether the signatures on these cheques match the original held by 
Halifax.
Id therefore had to decide whats most likely based on the other information that was 
available.
On the one hand, I noted that Mr N had told us hed left his chequebook at his UK address 
when he was living overseas. Mr N had provided emails from A admitting shed taken £3,000 
of his money. And Mr N has sent me financial disclosures showing that, by August 2018, A 
was in considerable debt.
Halifax doesnt have the signature mandate from Mr N. So it cannot say whether it honoured 
these cheques in line with that mandate. This is unfortunate as without this mandate there 
was no way for Halifax to stop or question a cheque if the signature seemed unusual.
Halifax did, however, have a copy of a letter Mr N sent it in 2006, including his signature. 
And among the cheques Halifax has sent us that Mr N has not disputed there was one Mr N 
had mentioned before  one for £3,200 payable to A. Mr N has said this was to pay for the 
ground rent on a shared property. Mr N had also complained to this service about cheques 
written from another account -  with another bank. And I could see that the signature on this 
cheque is similar to the mandate held by that other bank. For these reasons, I was satisfied 
that the signature on this cheque was genuine, and in the absence of any record of the 
mandate is the best evidence I have of what the mandate is likely to have looked like.
I noted that the signature on the cheques Mr N had disputed were strikingly different to this 
signature. I was satisfied that they werent signed by Mr N. And so I found that Halifax paid 
out on these cheques without Mr Ns agreement.
I thought about what Halifax needs to do to put things right. Some of the cheques were paid 
to A. I wasnt persuaded A signed these cheques with Mr Ns permission. I thought Mr N had 
provided a plausible and persuasive account of what happened  and has been clear that he 
never gave A permission to sign cheques on his behalf. I was also satisfied that Mr N hasnt been able to recover these funds from A in the divorce proceedings. I thought Halifax should 
reimburse the cheques. 
That said, I noticed that one of the disputed cheques appears to have been to a credit card 
that - according to the financial disclosures Id seen  belonged to Mr N. It appeared that as 
well as taking money to meet her own expenses A may have been managing their joint 
finances more generally. I didnt think it would be fair to reimburse funds to Mr N if they 
benefitted him. So I wasnt minded to tell Halifax to reimburse the cheque for £30.
Finally, Halifax said Mr N needed to report the transactions within 13 months. I noted that as 
these were payments by cheque, the time limits in the Payment Service Regulations didnt 
directly apply. I noted that the terms and conditions for Halifax accounts do provide that 
disputed payments should be referred to them within 13 months. That said, I noted that Mr N 
appeared to have reported the cheque for £5,000  which was dated 18 December 2017  
on 11 January 2019, which is less than 13 months later. And given everything Mr N has said 
happened, including the breakdown of his relationship and his divorce, I thought there were 
good reasons he didnt raise the earlier cheques sooner.
For these reasons I concluded that the complaint should be upheld. I thought Halifax needed 
to refund the four cheques paid to A, or £8,690 in total. I didnt think Halifax needed to refund 
the £30 paid to Mr Ns credit card. I also thought Halifax should add interest (the rate was 
8% simple per year) to each payment from the date the cheques were paid until the date Mr 
N gets the money back.
I said Id consider any further submissions I received by 23 December 2021.
Mr N has replied to my provisional findings. He says he agrees with the overall decision. But 
he wants to draw my attention to a couple of points:
He says that although I said he reported the cheque on 11 January 2019, he actually 
contacted his branch in person in early September 2018. He says he returned to the 
bank again when he travelled to the UK in October 2018.
He wants to know what will happen in the future given Halifax has confirmed it 
doesnt have a copy of the signature mandate.
Halifax has also replied. It says that although it still thinks that Mr N may have given A 
permission to use his chequebook, it accepts my provisional findings. It is willing to refund 
the four cheques totalling £8,690, plus interest.
Ive therefore considered the complaint again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr N and Halifax have accepted my provisional decision.
I thank Mr N for his additional comments. They do not substantially change my conclusions. 
If Mr N wishes to arrange a new signature for his account, he should contact Halifax directly 
to do this.
I note Halifaxs comments. I acknowledge that its possible A was acting with Mr Ns 
permission. But as Ive explained in my provisional decision, Ive found what Mr N has said plausible and persuasive, and there is also some evidence to support Mr Ns contention A 
took some money without his permission. 
Having taken everything into account, I reach the same conclusions as my provisional 
decision for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Bank of Scotland plc should put Mr N in the position hed be in if it hadnt paid the disputed 
cheques. So Bank of Scotland plc should refund the four cheques paid to A - or £8,690. 
Bank of Scotland plc should also add interest (the rate is 8% simple a year) to each payment 
from the date each cheque was paid until the date Mr N gets the money back. HM Revenue 
& Customs requires Bank of Scotland plc to deduct tax from this interest. It should provide 
Mr N with a certificate showing this if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons above I uphold Mr Ns complaint. Bank of Scotland plc should put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman