DRN-1699541
 
The complaint
Miss A complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has only partly paid a claim she 
made on her home insurance policy.
What happened
Around early July 2019, Miss A noticed water damage at her home in several rooms. She 
got out a roofer who provided repair quotes. It wasnt clear what the cause of the water 
damage was.
In October 2019, Ms A got in touch with Admiral to make a claim. Admiral appointed a 
surveyor to investigate the cause of damage. Miss A says the surveyor arrived earlier than 
theyd arranged, so her brother showed him the damage  but only in the kitchen. The 
surveyor thought the roof damage was down to wear and tear, so he told Miss A this 
wouldnt be covered. But he recommended that Admiral should settle the costs of putting 
right the internal damage to the kitchen - £740.95, less the policy excess, under the 
accidental damage section of the policy.
Miss A wasnt happy with the surveyors findings and she complained. Thats because he 
hadnt investigated the damage in all of the rooms. And hed noted that Miss As brother was 
a tenant. This had led to an unnecessary referral to Admirals underwriting team which 
caused delays in the claim being progressed. Admiral agreed to send another surveyor out 
to investigate the damage and it also offered Miss A £50 compensation.
The second surveyor didnt think any of the claim should be covered. There wasnt evidence 
of storm conditions and they couldnt find the source of any escape of water. They thought 
both the external and internal damage was down to lack of maintenance and had happened 
over time. This was specifically excluded by the policy terms. Based on this report, Admiral 
turned down the whole claim. So Miss A complained to Admiral again. 
Admiral didnt think the claim was covered by the storm section of the policy. And while Miss 
A had accidental damage cover, this excluded water getting into the home other than by 
storm or flood.
But as the first surveyor had offered Miss A cash settlement for the kitchen it agreed to 
honour a settlement of £740.95 for this repair, less the policy excess of £400. It also paid 
Miss A further compensation of £150. It recorded the claim as partly settled. Miss A 
remained unhappy with Admirals handling of her claim and asked us to look into her 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Admiral had treated Miss A fairly. He didnt think there was any 
evidence of storm conditions around the time of the claim. And he thought it was fair for 
Admiral to turn down the claim under the accidental damage section. He didnt think Admiral 
had strictly needed to settle any of Miss As claim, so he thought the settlement itd paid her, 
together with compensation was fair and reasonable.
Miss A disagreed. She also didnt think it was fair for Admiral to record the claim as partially 
settled. Admiral told the investigator it had given Miss A the choice to not accept the cash 
settlement and to record the claim as declined or to accept it. Shed chosen to accept it. But 
it agreed to amend its internal and external records to simply show the claim was rejected if 
Miss A repaid the £340.95 shed been paid for the internal damage. 
The investigator put this option to Miss A. She asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint. She felt shed provided evidence her roof was well maintained. She didnt know 
the second surveyor would be doing a full inspection of the property and she questioned why 
Admiral had preferred their opinion. She didnt think the compensation was enough to 
recognise the distress and inconvenience shed been caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Admiral has treated Miss A fairly. Ill explain why.
Was the claim covered by the policy terms?
It isnt entirely clear what caused the damage to Miss As property. The surveyors couldnt 
find any evidence of internal pipes leaking, so Admiral considered the claim under the storm 
heading. This seems reasonable, given Miss A was also claiming for external damage.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions around the time of the claim?
Miss As policy defines what Admiral means by a storm. The policy says: A specific, 
identified storm including strong winds in excess of 47 knots (54mph) that may include heavy 
rain, snow or sleet.
Ive looked at local weather reports for around the time of Miss As claim. Ive checked for a 
few weeks before the roofers visit too, as Miss A cant pinpoint a specific time when she 
thinks the damage happened. While I can see there was fairly strong gusts of wind a couple 
of weeks before she got in touch with the roofer, I don't think these were strong enough to be 
storm winds. And they didnt meet the policy definition of storm either. I can see there were 
some periods of reasonably heavy rain. But I dont think these were sufficiently intense to be 
treated as a wet storm.
And Ive also looked at loss surveyors reports. One found there were multiple defects to the 
common tenement and its roof which are consistent with age related wear and tear and a 
lack of any cyclical and common maintenancethese issues have merely been highlighted 
by the torrential rainfall.  This suggests the roof damage isnt consistent with storm damage. 
The second report focused on the internal damage. It said: The rainwater ingress in the 
various rooms cannot be attributed to a single event, the damage is consistent with long-
term unmitigated ingress that has not been dealt with in a timely manner.
Based on the expert opinions of two different surveyors, it seems more likely that the 
damage was down to wear and tear over time than because of something insured by the policy. So I think it was fair for Admiral to conclude the damage to Miss As home wasnt 
down to storm.
The original surveyor thought the kitchen damage should be covered under the accidental 
damage section of the policy. That was the reason why a cash settlement for that room was 
proposed. But Ive looked closely at the policy terms. These specifically exclude buildings 
accidental damage claims where damage is caused by water entering the home other than 
by storm or flood. The expert opinions of the surveyors didnt put the water damage down to 
storm or flood. So, I think it was fair for Admiral to decide the damage wasnt strictly covered 
by the accidental damage section of the policy and to turn down the parts of the claim 
relating to the other rooms.
Did Admiral respond fairly to Miss As complaint about the service she received?
As I dont think the claim was strictly covered by the policy terms, I think Admiral wouldve 
been reasonably entitled to turn it down entirely. It chose not to so though. Instead, it 
decided to part settle her claim and pay her the settlement for the kitchen suggested by the 
surveyor. I think this was more than reasonable in the circumstances. I also think this meant 
Admiral was entitled to record the claim as part settled on both its internal and external 
records. Thats because its an accurate record of whats happened with the claim.
Ive noted from its records that before it paid Miss A, it did give her the choice not to accept 
the cash settlement for the internal damage and to have the claim recorded as turned down 
with nothing paid out. She opted for the cash settlement. Admiral has since told us its happy 
to amend its records to show a rejected claim with £0 payment, if Miss A chooses to return 
the cash settlement of £340.95. Its open to her to get in touch with Admiral if she wants to 
take this up option.
Its unfortunate that the first surveyor wrongly told Miss A some of her claim should be paid. 
And that a full inspection of the damage wasnt carried out during the first visit. I can 
appreciate how frustrating this mustve been to Miss A. It must also have been upsetting for 
her when her brother was noted as a tenant and her claim was referred onto the 
underwriting team for further investigation. So I can understand why Miss A feels she hasnt 
been treated fairly by Admiral.
Im pleased to see that Admiral accepted it made mistakes though. Its paid her 
compensation of £200 for the poor service its provided. And I think this is a fair reflection of 
the distress and inconvenience shes suffered. Its also broadly what Id have been likely to 
award her if an offer hadnt already been made. This compensation is separate to the claim 
settlement Miss A has been paid. She wont need to repay this to Admiral should she choose 
to repay the internal damage claim settlement and have the payment of the claim removed 
from her records.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 Lisa Barham
Ombudsman