DRN-3162334
The complaint
Miss G complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited (Hoist) is asking her to repay an old debt 
that was settled as part of a debt management plan (DMP). Shes unhappy that Hoist cant 
give her evidence of the outstanding balance.
Miss G wants Hoist to stop asking her to repay the debt.
What happened
In 2000, Miss G opened credit card account with a business I will refer to as H. The 
account was closed in September 2009 and H received payments as part of Miss Gs DMP.
H says that it stopped receiving payments in October 2018, so it sold the debt to Hoist 
towards the end of 2019.
Hoist sent Miss G a notice of assignment in early January 2020 telling her that the 
outstanding balance of just over £1,265 would be managed by its appointed agent I will refer 
to as R. 
Miss G responded to Rs Pre-Action Protocol pack in October 2020 by saying that the debt 
formed part of her DMP and that shed not been told about the transfer of the debt from H to 
Hoist. After this time, Miss Gs account was placed on hold.
Hoist didnt think that it had done anything wrong. As Miss G was unhappy with this, she 
came to this service for assistance.
The investigator didnt recommend that Miss Gs complaint be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Hoist acted appropriately when it raised Miss Gs concerns with H. As H confirmed that the 
debt was still due, the investigator didnt think it unreasonable for Hoist to ask Miss G to 
repay it.  The investigator didnt think Hoists contact had been excessive.
Miss G wasnt happy with the investigators recommendation. She said the debt to H had 
been included in the DMP and that no other creditors had asked her for money since the 
DMP had ended. Miss G says she received aggressive letters from a company shed never 
heard of. And that despite her attempts to understand how Hoist had arrived at the debt 
figure, it hadnt been able to give an answer.
The investigator responded and forwarded a set of statements and repayment history to 
Miss G. The investigator said hed not seen any information to show that Miss G had settled 
the debt. Miss G replied saying she was taking further advice, but weve not heard anything 
further from her.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised Miss Gs complaint. But this reflects the informal nature of 
our service. 
I appreciate that Miss G thinks that the outstanding debt to H was settled as part of her 
DMP, but my role is to decide whether Hoist has made a mistake or treated her unfairly. I 
cant consider the actions of H, R or the business managing the DMP as part of this 
complaint. 
Hoist bought the outstanding debt from H in 2019 on the understanding that there was an 
outstanding balance of around £1,260 to pay. 
H told Miss G that it had received payments against the account until October 2018 at which 
time it sold the debt to Hoist. The statements that H produced for the period between 
September 2009 and October 2014 indicate that Miss Gs outstanding balance had reduced 
to £4,051.57. And a spreadsheet provided by Hoist shows that between February 2014 and 
October 2018, further payments totalling £2,738,45 were received - reducing the balance to 
just over £1,313. When H sold the debt to Hoist it said that Miss G owed just over £1,265. 
So, I cant fairly say that Hoist has reason to believe that Miss G didnt owe the debt. Or that 
Hoist should be prevented from asking Miss G to repay the debt. I can also see that Hoist 
sent Miss G a notice of assignment which shouldve made her aware that it had bought the 
debt from H.
After Miss G questioned the outstanding balance, Im satisfied that Hoist took the steps I 
wouldve expected it to when it referred her complaint to H for further information. Although it 
mightve been helpful to Miss G if Hoist had supplied her copy statements sooner than it did, 
H says that it had continued to send her statements and arrears letters. It also meant that 
Hoist suspended any recovery action against Miss G, so I cant find that she was 
disadvantaged by the delay.
Although I appreciate it was upsetting to be asked to repay the debt, I dont consider Hoists 
contact has been excessive or harassing in nature. And as Ive said above, I can only 
consider the contact that Hoist had with Miss G and not R  the agent appointed by Hoist to 
act on its behalf. 
In her letter to Hoist from January 2021, Miss G said she wouldnt make any payment until 
there was clear evidence that there is a debt owed. Hoist has now supplied statements and 
H has sent Miss G a copy of her credit application. So, I hope that Miss G has what she 
needs to try and find out more from the business which I understand bought out the original 
company managing her DMP.  
Hoist has just confirmed that it will agree a further 60 days breathing space to allow Miss G 
to make further enquiries about her DMP. I consider this to be fair and reasonable. But I do 
expect Hoist to let Miss G know when the 60-day period is due to end.
Overall, I dont find that Hoist has acted unreasonably so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman