DRN-2684646
The complaint
 Mr I is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited, was of an unsatisfactory quality.
 
What happened
 In April 2019, Mr I was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn. Mr I paid a £550 deposit and the agreement was for £12,977 over 60 months; 
with monthly repayments of £509.72. At the time, the car was five years old and had done 
18,270 miles. 
Mr I collected the car from a dealership in Glasgow and drove it back to his home in London. 
He said that he started to experience problems with the gearbox on the car within a few 
weeks of taking possession of it. He took the car to a manufactures dealership close to his 
home on 13 June 2019, and they said that, although there were no faults relating to the 
gearbox issue, the mechatronic unit needed replacement. At the time, the car had done 
24,568 miles. 
Mr I said that the problems with the car got worse, but it took him some time to arrange for 
the car to be inspected by a manufacturers dealership again  there was no local 
availability, he was offered an inspection in the Birmingham area (which he had no means of 
returning home from without a courtesy car), and when a local inspection was finally 
arranged he was offered an unsuitable courtesy car (it was too small with a manual, not 
automatic, gearbox). So a further inspection didnt happen until 17 September 2019, when 
the car had done 35,556 miles. The inspection report said there were faults with the gearbox 
and a new mechatronic unit was required.
Mr I complained to Moneybarn on 26 September 2019. Moneybarn arranged for an 
independent engineer to inspect the car. This inspection took place on 10 October 2019, 
when the car had done 39,123 miles. The independent inspector said that the mechatronic 
unit needed replacing. But the inspector also said, because the car had travelled 20,853 
since it was supplied to Mr I, on the balance of probability, the vehicle would not have been 
in this condition at finance inception. Based on this report, Moneybarn didnt agree to cover 
the costs of the replacement mechatronic unit.
Mr I wasnt happy with Moneybarns response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said it wasnt disputed there was a problem with the gearbox, or that the 
mechatronic unit needed replacing. But, because Mr I had reported this problem within a few 
weeks of taking possession of the car, and because the car had done around 6,000 miles 
when the fault was first identified (not the almost 21,000 miles the independent inspector 
relied upon); she said it was more likely than not that the fault was present when the finance 
started. And she didnt think the car was of a satisfactory quality as a result.
The investigator said that Moneybarn should arrange to repair the car, or refund Mr I the cost 
of repair plus interest if hed already had the car repaired. And because Mr I had stopped 
using the car, and paying Moneybarn, because of the fault, she thought Moneybarn should 
remove any adverse information from Mr Is credit file.
Mr I agreed with the investigator, but Moneybarn didnt. While Moneybarn said we accept 
your findings that it is likely there was an issue with the vehicle at the point of sale they 
didnt agree with the investigators recommendations.
Moneybarn have said that Mr I continued to use the car for some time and, if he didnt have 
the car repaired himself, then this continued use could well have resulted in additional 
damage to the vehicle. And Moneybarn didnt think it was fair they should be responsible for 
this additional damage. They also said that, because Mr I was continuing to use the car 
without paying for it, they didnt think it was fair to remove any adverse information from his 
credit file.
Because Moneybarn didnt agree with the investigator, this has been passed to me to make 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr I was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The relevant law  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) - says, amongst other things, that 
the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the 
supplier of goods, Moneybarn are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by things 
such as durability, and what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory given the 
price, description and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, this would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and the vehicles history. Durability 
means that the components within the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Moneybarn can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was 
faulty when Mr I took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd 
be fair and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. Mr I was supplied with a car that had a fault 
with the gearbox. And this meant the mechatronic unit needed replacement. No reasonable 
person would expect a well maintained and serviced car to have a gearbox failure after less 
than 25,000 miles, so I agree this was an issue of durability  the engine on the car wasnt 
sufficiently durable, and this made the car of an unsatisfactory quality. The CRA gives 
Moneybarn a chance to repair the car, and Mr I wants the car repaired. 
Given these facts, my decision will focus on what I consider to be a fair remedy.Mr I did almost 21,000 miles in the car between taking possession of it in April 2019, and the 
independent assessment in October 2019. I can see that Moneybarn are concerned that Mr 
Is use of the car with the gearbox fault mayve caused additional damage. But I havent 
seen anything to show me thats the case or that any additional damage has been done. All 
the reports say that the mechatronic unit needed replacement, and this has been the case 
since Mr I took possession of the car. And he hasnt had this work done. So, given this, I 
consider it only fair that Moneybox arrange for this repair.
Ive seen the MOT history for the car, and Ive seen that it passed an MOT on 21 January 
2020, with a recorded mileage of 50,621. However, this MOT expired in January 2021, and 
hasnt been renewed. Mr Is said that he hasnt used the car in the last few months and the 
battery is now flat. The non-renewal of the MOT would indicate this is the case.
Looking at the difference in the mileage from when Mr I took possession of the car and the 
January 2020 MOT, this shows me that he did an average of 4,621 miles a month in this 
period. And Ive seen nothing that indicates Mr Is usage of the car changed after this point.
Mr I has been asked for photographic evidence of the current mileage on the car, but hes 
refused to provide this. So I cant work out, given his average usage, when he was most 
likely to have stopped using the car. So the most likely date that Mr I stopped using the car, 
given the current evidence, was when the MOT expired in late January 2021. And, because 
Mr I had use of the car up to this point, its only fair that he pays for this usage.
Ive seen a statement of Mr Is account. And this shows he paid regular monthly payments 
until January 2020. After this point, payments stopped being made by direct debit, and Mr I 
paid these manually. He made two payments in February 2020, paid nothing in March or 
April 2020, made a partial payment in May 2020 (when Moneybarn had agreed a payment 
holiday), paid slightly more than one payment in June 2020, paid full payments in July and 
August 2020, and paid a partial payment and a lump sum overpayment in September 2020. I 
havent seen any evidence of any payments made from October 2020 onwards.
Because Mr I had use of the car until late January 2021, and its not clear that he stopped 
making payments only because the car was faulty (he asked for, and was granted, a 
payment holiday); its only fair that his credit file should reflect his payment history up until 
this point. But, because Mr I didnt use the car after January 2021, and the car was faulty, I 
dont think that any additional adverse credit should be recorded from February 2021 until 
the car has been repaired.
Because this differs from the recommendation made by the investigator, I asked both parties 
for any comments they had on this. Neither party made any comments or objected to this 
change. So Im able to make a final decision about this complaint.
  
Putting things right
 Moneybarn should now arrange to do the following:
arrange for the mechatronic unit to be replaced on the car, at no cost to Mr I, and 
within a reasonable timescale.
remove any new negative information, added after February 2021, from Mr Is credit 
file.
My final decision For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Is complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited must follow 
my directions above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman