DRN-3160424
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about a claim they made on their Aviva Insurance Limited 
buildings insurance policy. They are unhappy that part of the claim has been declined 
because they cant prove ownership of the wall thats been damaged, despite it being 
insured under the policy. In addition, they are unhappy with the settlement thats been 
offered for the damage to the drive.
What happened
In 2016 Mr and Mrs S arranged buildings insurance with Aviva. Aviva valued the property 
and its features for insurance purposes. In this valuation the walls, fences and gates were 
detailed as having a rebuild cost of over £330,000. The sum assured on the policy was 
indexed at each renewal to ensure it remained sufficient to protect the property.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs S had drainage works completed on their property. During these works a 
heavy vehicle drove along the drive and a section of the boundary wall, which retained the 
drive, was unable to support the additional load. The wall moved outward and so the support 
for the drive in that area was reduced. This caused the drive to crack. 
Mr and Mrs S made a claim to Aviva for the damage to their wall and drive. 
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs S local council wrote to them and informed them the retaining 
wall was dangerous. It instructed them that they had to take immediate action to abate the 
danger under S77 of the Building Act 1984. The council said that it had investigated the 
ownership of the wall and, due to the fact it was retaining Mr and Mrs S property, it was 
deemed their wall and they were responsible for it.
Aviva declined the claim for the wall on the basis that the policy only covered things that 
belonged to Mr and Mrs S. As they hadnt proved they owned the wall or that they had an 
insured interest in it, there was no cover available. It said in order for Mr and Mrs S to have a 
legal insurable interest in the wall there had to be an obligation, contractual or in statue, on 
Mr and Mrs S to maintain and insure the wall, for example a lease. There was no evidence 
of such an obligation existing. Aviva went on to say that even if there had been an insurable 
interest, it would then need to consider whether there was an obligation on Mr and Mrs S to 
repair the wall; it didnt think there would be, but it didnt explain why it had concluded this. It 
accepted the claim for the drive.
Mr and Mrs S complained about Avivas decision on the wall. It rejected the complaint as it 
was satisfied its position was correct. Mr and Mrs S asked this service to consider their 
complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He recommended it be upheld as he 
considered the available evidence showed that Mr and Mrs S were responsible for the wall 
and so Aviva should proceed with the claim on that basis. 
Aviva didnt accept the investigators conclusions. Solicitors acting on its behalf stated that 
had they been given the opportunity to put forward representations, they would have 
prepared formal submissions, with supporting evidence as to why Aviva had decided the wall 
was not covered under the insurance policy. It said that it considered the investigators 
conclusion was based on the councils letter saying that it considered the wall was 
Mr and Mrs S responsibility. It disputed that this was enough to prove ownership. It also said 
that the investigator had failed to consider the submissions put forward by Aviva. Aviva 
asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for decision.
Around this time Aviva made its offer for the drive to Mr and Mrs S. It said that the repairs to 
the wall would need to be completed before the ones to the drive could be done. As such, it 
offered a cash settlement for those works. Aviva only offered to pay for the affected section 
of the drive to be repaired. In addition, it offered 10 days alternative accommodation in a 
hotel while Mr and Mrs S home was inaccessible during the drive repairs. 
Mr and Mrs S rejected the offer for the drive as they considered the whole drive needed to 
be resurfaced to a depth of 8cm (the depth of the tarmac)  a patch repair was not 
acceptable for aesthetic reasons. They accepted that Aviva couldnt be asked to pay for the 
turning circle at the top of the drive to be resurfaced and were happy to pay for that area 
themselves. In addition, Mr and Mrs S highlighted Mr S medical situation; explaining that a 
hotel wouldnt be suitable alternative accommodation for him.
Aviva didnt change its offer for the drive and in early 2021 Mr and Mrs S asked that this 
aspect of their complaint be added to the complaint we were already considering. 
Our jurisdiction requires that before we can consider a complaint, the financial business its 
against has the opportunity to respond. However, in the circumstances of this case, Aviva 
agreed that we could consider the matter immediately as part of this complaint. 
In early 2021 Mr and Mrs S arranged for the works to the wall to be done, as it had 
continued to deteriorate. This cost £17,000. In addition, Mr and Mrs S had some basic 
repairs done to the drive following the wall repair; replacement of the drive edging, 
reinstatement of the drive lighting and replacement of a section of hedge at the rear of the 
wall. This cost a further £650. No repairs to the tarmac of the drive have been done.
Relevant industry guidance
The Association of British Insurers (ABI), which Aviva is a member of, defines insurable 
interest as follows:
The interest that a person has in something such as a particular property or another 
individual, which means that the person would suffer a loss should that property or individual 
be harmed. In insurance law, you can only buy insurance for something or someone in which 
you have an insurable interest. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 October 2021, which set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt. 
Avivas legal advisers noted, in their experience, this service didnt always follow the letter 
of the law and sometimes sympathises with Policy Holders. Whilst I am sure that Aviva is 
aware of this, I thought it appropriate to remind it that, whilst this service always considers 
the law when looking at a complaint, we also have to take account of regulation, relevant 
guidance and good industry practice. Furthermore, we have a fair and reasonable remit. We 
would never seek to place a consumer in a worse position than they would be under the law, 
but we will make awards that place them in a better position, if that is the fair outcome.
Mr and Mrs S complaint falls under three headings and I will consider them in turn. The scope of the repairs to the drive have been questioned as Aviva has proposed to only 
repair the damaged section of the drive. Mr and Mrs S are not happy with a limited repair, 
not because it would not function adequately, but because of the aesthetics  there would be 
a join across the drive, and it is likely there would be some form of colour variation.  I can 
understand the point Mr and Mrs S are making and, in some circumstances, I might agree 
that the entire drive needed to be resurfaced, but I dont think that would be reasonable in 
this case. 
The repaired drive will function perfectly well and over a relatively short period of time, if 
there is a slight colour difference this will fade and become less noticeable. As for the point 
Mr and Mrs S representative has made; that there will be a scar across the drive at the 
junction point, I cant disagree that there will be a join. Given the drive is of some age and 
already has areas that have been repaired, I dont consider a further area of repair, 
especially one covering such a large proportion of the drive would cause a significant 
reduction in the drives aesthetics. As such, I dont intend to require Aviva to increase its 
offer for the drive repair so that the entire length of the drive can be resurfaced to provide a 
continual single surface. 
That said, Mr and Mrs S have had some minor works done to the drive that would be 
included in the settlement Aviva has offered. However, Aviva should reprice the offer to 
include the actual costs Mr and Mrs S have incurred for these works, rather than the cost it 
would pay its contractors. 
Aviva has identified that Mr and Mrs S wont be able to access the property during the drive 
repairs and as such, they cant be expected to remain in the property during that period. This 
is especially the case given the requirement for carers for Mr S. As such, it was appropriate 
for Aviva to provide funds so that Mr and Mrs S can be housed elsewhere during the repairs. 
However, I think it is unlikely the amount it has offered for this purpose will be adequate. 
Mr S medical situation has been highlighted in this regard, along with his need for carers 
throughout the day. In the circumstances, I dont think its likely that a normal hotel would 
prove to be a suitable environment for him. As such, Aviva will need to pay for suitable 
respite care for Mr S and, if Mrs S cant stay with him, hotel accommodation for her. Such 
arrangements are likely to cost a significant amount. If Mr S existing caring arrangements 
wont have to be paid for during any period of respite care, Aviva can reasonably deduct any 
such savings from the amount it pays in this regard.
I now turn to the issue of the wall and whether the insurance policy should be providing 
cover for that damage. I am satisfied that it should, and I will explain why.
Aviva has pointed out that the plans attached to the sale documentation and title for the 
property dont state that Mr and Mrs S have responsibility for maintaining any boundary walls 
or fences around the plot of land  they are silent on the issue. Equally the documentation 
that is available doesnt indicate that the owner of the land on the other side of the boundary 
in question has any responsibility for the wall. This doesnt mean that neither party has 
responsibility for the wall, but could simply mean that at the time of the original sale/transfer 
of the plot of land there was no boundary structure in place to be documented in the deeds 
and so no thought about the maintenance of any potential future structure was considered. 
Indeed, the covenants on the title would indicate that at the time of the original sale of the 
plot of land now owned by Mr and Mrs S, there wasnt even a house on it, as it details 
limitations on the type and number of properties that can be built. That said, there is a 
covenant that dictates when a boundary had to be installed by the landowner and what form 
it needed to take. Again, this would indicate that the plot of land wasnt fenced in at the time 
of the original purchase and there werent physical boundaries to be commented on. In addition, it is detailed what form any other boundary had to take if the landowner chose to 
install one. Both covenants required any walls installed to be built only of stone. The wall 
subject to the claim is built of stone.  
In the circumstances, I think there is a reasonable likelihood that the walls surrounding 
Mr and Mrs S property were installed by a previous owner and would, therefore, be their 
responsibility to maintain. However, I have also considered Avivas comments about 
insurable interest, in the event that the wall doesnt belong to Mr and Mrs S.
Firstly, I have carefully considered what Aviva has had to say about the legal position 
regarding Mr and Mrs S insurable interest in the wall and I dont doubt its opinion in this 
regard. However, as I have explained above, I also need to take other things into account 
when coming to my decision. I have detailed above the ABIs definition of insurable interest. 
This is a general definition accepted by the insurance industry. Given that Aviva is a member 
of the ABI, I think it reasonable that it should take account of any guidance that organisation 
provides. This states that a person has an insurable interest in something if they will suffer a 
loss if the item is harmed. 
In this case, the wall that was harmed retained Mr and Mrs S drive. Without that support, the 
drive became damaged and its functionality deteriorated. I can only conclude that the 
damage to the wall caused Mr and Mrs S a loss. As such, they would be deemed to have an 
insurable interest in the wall for insurance purposes. 
I would also comment about the fact that prior to the claim Aviva agreed to insure the wall in 
question. The application for Mr and Mrs S policy wasnt treated as most applications for 
property insurance policies are, as Aviva wanted the property examined by a qualified 
surveyor and valued. If Aviva had any concerns about the ownership of the property or 
insurable interest, I would have expected it to have raised those concerns at the time of the 
proposal, given the additional checks it made at that time. It didnt do so, and its surveyor 
included a very significant amount in the sum insured specifically for the replacement of the 
walls. 
Whether or not it can be proved that Mr and Mrs S own the wall in question, they certainly 
had an insurable interest in it and they had paid Aviva to insure it. I consider Aviva acted 
inappropriately when it declined the claim for the damage to the wall for the reason it did.
In addition to the settlement of the claim, it has been clear throughout the correspondence 
on this complaint that a great deal of worry and concern was caused to Mr and Mrs S by 
Avivas rejection of their claim for the wall. This is especially so for Mrs S, as she expressed 
concern about access to their home by emergency services if needed for Mr S medical 
situation. Furthermore, she had similar concerns about the ability of Mr S carers to access 
the property as the drive deteriorated. There were also concerns raised about the risk the 
wall posed to passers-by and the involvement of the local council with the matter. Given all 
of this, I am satisfied the situation with the wall would have caused a significant amount of 
upset and worry.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative confirmed they accepted my provisional decision.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision, but I am satisfied that it received it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As neither party provided any further comment or evidence, I see no reason to alter my 
conclusions. I remain satisfied that the redress detailed in my provisional decision and 
repeated below in putting things right remains the appropriate redress in this case. 
Putting things right
The payment for alternative accommodation needed for the period of the drive repairs 
should be made based on appropriate accommodation being provided to take account of 
Mr S medical situation and needs. Mrs S will need to provide Aviva with information about 
the situation in order for it to be able to assess the level of care needed and, therefore, an 
appropriate amount. If the cancellation of Mr S existing caring arrangements will result in a 
saving to Mr and Mrs S, Aviva can reasonably deduct that sum from the settlement. 
Aviva should settle the claim for the wall repairs. As Mr and Mrs S have had the works 
completed, this settlement should be based on the costs that were actually incurred, 
including the costs of replacing the section of hedge that had to be removed for the wall 
repair. Mr and Mrs S will need to provide Aviva with an invoice for the works done and it 
should then reimburse those costs. Simple interest at 8% per annum should be paid on that 
sum from the date of payment to the date Aviva makes settlement. If Aviva considers it 
needs to deduct income tax from the interest, it should provide Mr and Mrs S with 
appropriate documentation for HMRC purposes. 
In addition, Aviva should reprice its offer for the repairs to the drive to take account of the 
actual costs Mr and Mrs S paid out for the works theyve already had done. 
Aviva should pay Mr and Mrs S £1,500 to compensate them for the upset and worry its 
declinature of the claim for the wall caused them.
My final decision
My decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to settle the complaint as detailed in putting things right above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman