DRN-3544654
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C has complained that Shawbrook Bank Limited rejected their claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C bought solar panels for their home in 2014. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Shawbrook, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr 
and Mrs C into believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Shawbrook made an offer of settlement which had the effect of making the solar panels self-
funding over the term of the loan. The CMC pointed out an error in the offer calculations, 
which we asked Shawbrook to update. However, it has not done so within a reasonable 
time. So, Ive been asked to make a decision to set out what Shawbrook must do. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook is familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
Shawbrook has accepted that the complaint should be upheld. So, I dont need to decide 
whether there was a misrepresentation  only what must happen to put things right. I set this 
out below.
Putting things right
I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs 
complaint for Shawbrook to put things right by recalculating the original loan based on the 
known and assumed savings and income to Mr and Mrs C from the solar panels over the 
term of the loan so they pay no more than that, and they keep the solar panel system, and 
any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
Because the calculation shows that Mr and Mrs C is paying (or have paid) more than they 
should have, then Shawbrook needs to reimburse them. 
Because the calculation shows there is a loss and the loan is ongoing, I require Shawbrook 
to restructure Mr and Mrs Cs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr and Mrs C in a 
position where the solar panel system is cost neutral over the original term of the loan.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr and Mrs C have the following options as to 
how they would like their overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
pay a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs C and they continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in their loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs C and they pay a new monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.
If Mr and Mrs C accepts my decision, they should indicate on the acceptance form which 
option they wish to accept.
If Mr and Mrs C have settled the loan, Shawbrook should pay them the difference between 
what they paid in total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 
8% interest.
If Mr and Mrs C have settled the loan by refinancing, they should supply evidence of the 
refinance to Shawbrook and Shawbrook should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs C paid each month with the Shawbrook loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs C receives their 
refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr and Mrs C paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr and Mrs C receives their 
refund.
5. Pay Mr and Mrs C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount 
they wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding the original term of the loan.
Shawbrook offered £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. So, I think it should 
make this payment in addition to what Ive set out above. 
Shawbrook should ensure that the total Mr and Mrs C pay is no more that the calculated 
benefit over the term of the loan, which is £12,094.70. Shawbrook should provide a copy of 
its calculations to Mr and Mrs C.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Shawbrook Bank 
Limited should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman