DRN-2500030
The complaint
Miss P complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to decline a storm damage 
claim made against her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss P contacted UKI in July 2020 to report water damage to her living room, kitchen and 
bathroom ceiling. She said shed experienced poor weather before making the claim, so she 
thought a storm was the main cause. 
UKI sent a loss adjustor to Miss Ps home in July 2020. They reported that damage wasnt 
caused by a one-off storm event. Rather, the roof showed signs of wear and tear and bad 
weather only highlighted issues. So, Miss P contacted UKI to complain. 
Miss P said UKI had no knowledge of the loss adjustors report when she complained. She 
also said her bathroom and kitchen ceiling collapsed between the loss adjustor attending 
and UKI declining the claim. 
UKI wrote to Miss P in August 2020 to say the claim had been declined due to weather 
records and the loss adjustors findings. 
Miss P didnt agree. She said shed maintained the roof and sprayed it annually with anti-
moss spray. She also said a previous repair had been done in 2015 in the same area where 
damage had been caused. Though UKI said they werent responsible for this repair. 
Miss P provided a report from a roofer which said there was evidence of a poor repair which 
formed part of the cause of the damage, along with extreme weather and the low pitch of the 
roof. They also said the roof had been maintained. UKI considered this but maintained their 
decision to decline the claim. So, Miss P brought a complaint to our service. 
An investigator here looked into the matter. He didnt think weather records at the time Miss 
P noticed the damage, or the month leading up to this, demonstrated a storm took place. He 
felt UKI acted fairly by relying on the loss adjustors report to decline the claim. 
He also looked at the report Miss P provided. He felt this demonstrated the main cause 
wasnt a storm, but likely due to previous poor repairs UKI didnt carry out. So, he didnt 
recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Miss P disagreed. She thinks poor weather was the main cause. She said this has caused 
her a lot of stress and worry and maintains UKI should accept the claim. She asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision, so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ps policy doesnt define a storm, however theres no dispute that the policy provides 
cover if the main cause of damage is a storm. But the policy also excludes cover for damage 
thats happened gradually over time due to wear and tear. 
These are common complaints, so our service has an established approach to considering 
whether an insurer has treated a policyholder fairly and reasonably. So, my starting point 
here is answering these three questions: 
1. Were storm conditions present on or around the date that damage is said to have 
happened? 
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
3. Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is yes, then Id generally expect a claim to succeed. But, 
if the answer to any of these questions is no, then I wouldnt expect such a claim to be 
successful. 
To answer to the first question, Ive gone onto consider whether I think storm conditions 
were present on or around the time Miss P noticed the damage. This was in July 2020, and 
Ive also looked at the weeks leading up to this. I should explain that for me to be satisfied 
storm conditions were present, Id expect to see weather records showing very high winds 
generally accompanied by unusual heavy rainfall as an example. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think the weather records support storm conditions were 
present when Miss P noticed the damage, or the weeks leading up to this. I accept rainfall 
was present for periods and Miss P experienced some bad weather. But Id expect to see 
very high winds accompanying unusual heavy rainfall in order to say a storm caused 
damage to a well-maintained roof. So, I think the answer to question one is no. 
Because I think the answer to the first question is no, I dont think UKI need to do anything to 
put things right. But I note both UKI and Miss P provided reports to identify the main cause of 
damage, so Ive also considered these. 
UKI declined the claim due to wear and tear and said that damage had occurred gradually 
over time. Their report says the roof had a very shallow pitch, broken and cracked tiles and 
signs of deterioration. The report Miss P provided, in my view, highlights similar issues to 
those given by UKI. Miss Ps roofer said: 
The cause of the water ingress was due to the fact that the pitch of the roof is low 
and had been tiled with the wrong type of tiles, these tiles are not suitable for the 
pitch on this roof. This and two other factors have caused damage to the interior. 
Firstly, a repair was carried out in 2015 which was not done properly. 
The report goes onto say that extreme weather and a previous repair hadnt been carried out 
effectively. My understanding is UKI werent responsible for this repair in 2015 which isnt 
disputed. And so, I cant hold them responsible for this. 
The report does say the roof was found to be in good condition. But it also highlights several 
issues Im not persuaded were caused by a one-off storm event  such as a poor previous 
repair, unsuitable tiles and the low pitch in the roof. So, I dont think UKIs been 
unreasonable in saying poor weather only highlighted these issues.
So, for the reasons set out above, I think UKI acted fairly by declining the claim because I 
dont think storm conditions were present on or around the time the damage occurred. Nor 
have I been persuaded that the main cause of the damage was a storm. Miss P doesnt have accidental damage cover under the buildings section of her policy, but 
she does under the contents section. I cant see this has previously been raised by Miss P, 
so she would need to contact UKI to do this. 
I appreciate my decision will come to disappoint Miss P as Ive seen how distressing this has 
been for her. But my decision ends what we  in attempting to resolve her dispute with UKI  
can do for her. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman