DRN-3592348
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc refuses to refund payments he made to an investment 
scam.
 
What happened
Mr S came across a social media post where he was invited to join a telegram group called 
crypto coin traders. The group was full of people who had been investing by sending money 
to an individual (Maria) who ran the group. The members of the group were posting their 
gratitude for the returns they were getting but Mr S now believes the members were bots or 
related to Maria.
 
Before agreeing to invest, Mr S checked reviews from five other group members who gave 
positive feedback. Mr S spoke to Maria who said he could invest a small amount to start with 
and the money had to be sent via Binance. Mr S was told hed receive $1,200 in returns with 
a $20 bonus. Once Mr S sent his money, he was given login details to a trading account with 
smart-cryptotraders.com where he could see his deposit and trading. From 3 February 2022 
to 11 February 2022 Mr S sent further payments to his trading account (via Binance) using 
his Lloyds Visa debit card - linked to his current account - totalling £6,600. 
Mr S complained to Lloyds on 31 March 2022 that hed been the victim of a scam and he felt 
it ought to have done more to protect him. 
Lloyds issued its final response on 8 June 2022 and decided not to refund Mr S disputed 
payments. It noted it didnt have any chargeback rights it could use and it didnt consider it 
could have prevented the fraud.
 
Mr S referred his complaint to this office, via a claims management company. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and didnt think Lloyds could have 
prevented the fraud. Mr S representative didnt agree. He felt the payments were unusual 
for him, particularly five payments totalling £3,600 being sent in one day to a high risk crypto 
platform. He asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr S complaint and Ill explain why. 
Chargeback
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Lloyds) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr S.
Lloyds concluded it had no chargeback rights that covered the situation Mr S found himself 
in. He paid Binance, not smart-cryptotraders.com and he would have received a service from 
Binance which would have involved changing his £sterling into crypto before sending it to the 
wallet address he supplied it with. His disagreement is with smart-cryptotraders.com, not 
Binance. Lloyds could only have processed chargeback claims against the recipient of Mr S 
payments, which was Binance. I consider Mr S stood no reasonable prospect of success if 
Lloyds had processed chargeback claims against Binance and so I dont think Lloyds acted 
unreasonably by choosing not to do so.
Fraud prevention
I dont think Lloyds could reasonably be expected to have prevented the payments Mr S lost. 
This is because at the time generally, banks were expected to process payments a customer 
authorised it to make. And under The Payment Services Regulations and terms and 
conditions of the account, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance, in 
circumstances where he authorised the payments. That said, as a matter of good industry 
practice, Lloyds should have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions 
 particularly unusual or uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the 
result of a scam. However, there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations 
to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant 
reasonably be involved in every transaction. 
Ive taken into account what Mr S representative has said but in my opinion, the payments 
here just werent sufficiently unusual, uncharacteristic or suspicious to reasonably say Lloyds 
shouldnt have allowed the payments through without first getting in touch with Mr S to check 
everything was in order. They werent for unusually large amounts and whilst multiple 
payments were sent in one day, Mr S had previously sent undisputed payments to Binance 
several months earlier, so the payee wasnt new to him. Mr S also made undisputed 
payments to other cryptoasset companies as highlighted by our Investigator, so I dont 
consider the disputed payments were out of character for him.  
This means that as Lloyds didnt interact with Mr S at the time of the payments  and Ive 
concluded that I cant reasonably say Lloyds ought to have been obliged to have gotten in 
touch with Mr S about them  Im satisfied Lloyds didnt unreasonably miss an opportunity to 
prevent the payments before they were sent. 
My final decision
My final decision is despite my natural sympathies for Mr S loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman