DRN-2226196
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont refund him £500 after he says a cash 
machine failed to dispense his money.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief summary of events here.
In March 2020, Mr G says he tried to withdraw £500 from a cash machine at a supermarket. 
He says the machine went out of service while he was using it and before his money could 
be dispensed the cash machine dispenser closed - trapping his money in the machine. 
Mr G says when he checked his online banking, he saw £500 had been debited from his 
account. He immediately contacted Lloyds. The agent he spoke to raised a claim and told 
Mr G where possible a conditional refund for the disputed amount would credit his account 
the next day. He explained an investigation would be completed  which could take up to 
30 days. He informed Mr G, if Lloyds conclude the money had been correctly dispensed, it 
would write to him and any refund provided would be re-debited from his account.     
The following day, instead of receiving a refund Mr G received a text message from Lloyds 
informing him his claim had been declined. Unhappy with its decision, he contacted Lloyds. 
Mr G couldnt understand why Lloyds had declined his claim. He maintained hed not 
received the money. He told Lloyds he had timestamped photos and videos on his phone 
which would prove what had happened. Mr G told Lloyds he was away from home and had 
no money to feed his children, he believed principally Lloyds should give him a refund as he 
held evidence on his phone showing that the machine was out of order and that the money 
was trapped in the dispenser. Mr G offered to go into a branch to show a member of staff the 
evidence he held on his phone. 
Lloyds said theyd written to Mr G explaining the reasons for its decision to decline the claim 
and that decision still stands. 
Mr G complained as he wasnt satisfied with the outcome reached and believed the reasons 
provided by Lloyds for declining his claim were unsatisfactory. He asked Lloyds for a full 
refund and told them he would be seeking compensation for the inconvenience caused for 
the time the matter took to resolve.
Lloyds wrote to Mr G reconfirming in its final response that its decision to hold him liable and 
reject his claim was correct. Mr G didnt accept this and referred his complaint to this service. 
He maintained he did not receive the money and believes the decision Lloyds have made is 
unfair as theyve not considered the photographic evidence on his phone, which he believes 
clearly shows the cash machine was out of order and that his money was not dispensed. 
When Mr G brought his complaint to this service, he also asked us to look into another 
similar subsequent incident which occurred in May 2020  where another cash machine had 
failed to dispense £500. Lloyds had also declined this claim.  
One of our investigators explained to Mr G that as he had not previously raised this 
particular issue with Lloyds and it had not therefore had the opportunity to consider this 
aspect of his complaint she couldnt consider this. She clarified for those reasons her 
findings would only focus on the cash machine dispute which occurred in March 2020 for 
which Lloyds have issued their final response. 
Having considered everything provided by both parties, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs 
complaint about the £500 disputed cash machine withdrawal made in March 2020. She 
thought it was more likely the money was successful withdrawn. And as she didnt think 
Lloyds had made an error, nor acted unfairly, she didnt think it needed to provide Mr G with 
a refund. 
Mr G didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For very much the same reasons as the investigator, I will not be asking Lloyds to refund this 
money. 
Whilst Im sure Mr G is certain in what he tells this service, I cannot ignore the technical 
evidence provided by the cash machine operator which shows;
- the money was successfully dispensed;
- there was no £500 cash surplus when the cash machine was balanced, which is 
what Id expect to see if the money was jammed and retracted; 
- there were no reports of the cash machine not working on that day;
- the cash machine journal shows use of the machine continued after Mr Gs 
withdrawal attempt which suggests it was functioning correctly and wasnt out of 
service as Mr G has suggested.
 
I appreciate how strongly Mr G feels about the photographic evidence. I can see why he 
believes it proves he didnt receive the money. Im sorry Mr G feels this hasnt been fully 
taken into consideration and Id like to assure him Ive carefully considered this evidence 
alongside what has been provided by Lloyds and the cash machine operator. But Im afraid 
based on what Ive seen on balance, I think its more likely the money was dispensed and 
successfully withdrawn. I say this because;
- Mr G has provided timestamped photographic evidence, which show the 
photographs were taken at 9.34pm on 18 March 2020. 
- The cash machine provider has provided the cash machine journal which shows 
£500 was successfully withdrawn using Mr Gs card at 9.31pm on 18 March 2020. 
This was also followed by a balance enquiry at 9.33pm. So, it appears the photographic evidence provided by Mr G was taken several minutes after 
the successful withdrawal and a balance enquiry. Notwithstanding if the machine had gone 
out of service as described by Mr G while he was using it and before his money could be 
dispensed it wouldnt have been possible for him to have made a balance enquiry after the 
attempted withdrawal. As the version of events Mr G has described is different to what the 
technical data shows and Im more persuaded by the technical evidence Im afraid I dont 
think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Lloyds to pay him £500.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman