DRN-3019161
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (trading as Mercedes 
Financial Services) (MFS) was wrong to apply charges when she returned a car it supplied, 
under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
Mrs E got a new car in April 2016, she agreed to hire it for four years with the option to 
purchase at the end of the agreement. 
When the agreement ended in April 2020 Mrs E decided to return the car. The collection of 
the car was delayed by the national Covid-19 lockdown. Mrs E emailed MFS on 16 April 
2020 to advise she could no longer store the car on her drive, as her new car had arrived. 
She also says she called MFS to let them know this. As she didnt receive any responses, 
she parked the car on the street. 
The car was collected on 19 June 2020. MFS sent Mrs E an invoice for £1,356.94 for extra 
days rental, plus £622.18 for damages and missing items.  
Mrs E complained to MFS about the charges, she said the damage to the car had occurred 
when it was parked on the road, after she had told MFS she could no longer keep the car on 
her drive. In response MFS said the damage and missing item charges were correctly 
applied, as the car remained her responsibility whilst it was in her possession. MFS 
accepted it should not have charged Mrs E for the cars late return, it apologised and 
removed this charge from her account.
 
Unhappy with MFS response, Mrs E brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
thought it was more likely that the damage to the car had occurred during the 48 months Mrs 
E had been using the car, rather than the two months period when she had parked the car 
on the road. The investigator concluded MFS had charged Mrs E for the damage and 
missing items in accordance with the vehicle return standards, so didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs E disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was collected on 19 June 2020. As part of the return process, MFS had the car 
inspected in line with its vehicle return standards. The inspection found damage and missing 
items. MFS invoiced Mrs E for the following;
Damage to the right-hand front alloy £85.00 -alloy needs to be refurbished.
Puncture to right hand rear tyre £99.83  tyre needs replacing.
Dent to left hand rear door £260.00 - repair and refinish required.
Missing V5C document £30.
Missing Compressor £103.58. 
Missing Tyre Sealant £43.77.
MFS also charged Mrs E £1,356.94 additional rental fees for the period between the 
agreement ending and the date it was collected. MFS agreed the delay in collecting the car 
was not Mrs Es fault, it apologised and removed this charge. MFS maintains it is entitled to 
charge Mrs E for the damage and missing items.
The issues for me to consider are whether the damage highlighted by the inspection report is 
there and if it is, whether that damage falls outside of the acceptable wear and tear 
standards. Secondly, I need to consider whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to 
hold Mrs E responsible for the damage.
It appears from Mrs Es recent communication that she is no longer disputing the charge for 
the missing tyre sealant. However, in case I have misunderstood her, I will consider all the 
outstanding end of contract charges.
The terms of Mrs Es finance agreement set out that the car must be returned at the end of 
the agreement in line with the vehicle return standards. MFS has confirmed Mrs E would 
have been provided a copy of the standards when she entered the agreement and I can see 
it also sent her a copy of those standards six months before her agreement was due to end. 
So, Im satisfied the standards were brought to Mrs Es attention.
Its clear from the agreement Mrs E was responsible for returning the car in good condition, 
but the question is whether the charges applied by MFS are fair and reasonable. Ive looked 
at the inspection report which includes a video, photographs and descriptions of the 
damage. Ive also considered MFS vehicle return standards, and the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines in deciding what is fair for 
MFS to charge on return of the car. 
damage 
I can see from the photographs there is significant scuffing to the right-hand front alloy which 
exceeds the 25mm standard from MFS and BVLA. So, I think it is fair for MFS to charge for 
this. The photographic evidence also shows the right-hand rear tyre is punctured. As the 
BVLA standards says tyres should meet the minimum UK legal requirements, I think it is fair 
for MFS to apply a charge for the replacement of the tyre. BVLA guidance says scratches 
and abrasions up to 25mm are acceptable, where there is no primer or bare metal showing. I 
can see a dent along with scratches on the left-hand rear door, which exceeds 25mm and 
goes through the paintwork in some parts, so I think it is fair for MFS to apply a charge for 
this.
missing items
Mrs E says it is unfair to charge her for the missing V5C logbook as MFS never asked her 
for it. MFS vehicle return standards state this document must be returned with the car and 
the inspection report notes the logbook is missing, so Im satisfied MFS can apply the charge 
for this. The photographs also show the tyre sealant and compressor compartments of the 
tire-fit unit are empty. As MFS has provided a copy of a list which shows these items would 
have been supplied with the car, Im satisfied its fair for MFS to charge for these missing 
items.
is it fair for MFS to hold Mrs E responsible for the damage?Mrs E says it is unfair to charge her for the damage found, as the car was in good condition 
when she moved it to the road. She says the damage must have occurred after the 
agreement ended, during the two months it was parked on the roadside. She did not think 
she should be held responsible for this, as it was not her fault MFS could not arrange to 
collect the car at the end of her agreement and she had notified it that she could no longer 
store the car safely on her drive. 
Whilst MFS could not locate any calls from Mrs E about moving the car, Im satisfied she 
emailed them on 16 April 2020 to let them know. However, like many businesses, MFS and 
its collection agent had to temporarily close due to the Covid-19 lockdown restrictions, so 
unfortunately it was unable to arrange the collection of the car for inspection at the end of 
Mrs Es agreement. Given the circumstances I dont think MFS couldve done anything to 
avoid the delay in collecting the car, so I dont think it acted unreasonably in not collecting 
the car until June 2020. 
Mrs E has not provided any photographs to evidence the condition of the car before it was 
moved to the road. And where evidence is missing as it is here, I base my decision on the 
balance of probabilities, that is what is more likely to have happened considering all the 
circumstances of this case. And I think it is more likely that the damage to the front alloy, the 
tyre and rear door, all occurred during the 48 months when Mrs E was using the car and 
managed to cover around 40,000 miles, than during the two months period where the car 
was stationary and parked on the road. So, Im satisfied MFS can hold Mrs E responsible for 
the damage identified in the inspection report. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mrs E, but taking everything into account, I think the 
outstanding end of contract charges are reasonable and I dont think MFS has done anything 
wrong in invoicing Mrs E for the damage and missing items.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Karen Dennis-Barry
Ombudsman