DRN-1686026
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly recorded his secured loans as unsecured 
loans, and gave him poor customer service when he asked to extend the loan terms.
What happened
Mr H had two ten-year loans with HSBC for £120,000 and £30,000. In 2016 he asked for 
their terms to be extended to twelve years, which was done but only after some time. He 
complains about the poor service he received while this was going on. But his main ground 
of complaint is about how HSBC reported the loans on his credit file.
It is not in dispute that the loans were secured by a mortgage on Mr Hs house, and that 
HSBC reported them to the credit reference agencies as unsecured loans. Mr H discovered 
this in 2019, when he applied to another bank for a loan to purchase a property and was 
declined due to the large amount of unsecured borrowing on his credit file. He says he was 
forced to withdraw the money he needed to complete the purchase from his pension fund 
instead, which had adverse tax implications. He calculates the consequential loss to him as 
nearly £80,000.
Mr H also sought to complain about his sons debts (which Mr H repaid himself), but our 
investigator told him that our Service did not have jurisdiction to consider that issue.
HSBC apologised to Mr H, paid him £250 compensation, and gave him a hamper. Mr H was 
not satisfied with this, and he brought this complaint to our Service. He asked to be 
compensated for his consequential losses.
Our investigator upheld this complaint to the extent that he recommended that HSBC pay 
Mr H another £250. But he did not think it would be fair to ask HSBC to reimburse Mr H for 
his consequential loss. That was because there was no evidence that the other bank would 
have given Mr H a loan if his HSBC loans had been reported correctly, and also because 
Mr H had not approached any other lenders when his loan application had been declined, so 
it was not clear that he had had no choice but to use his pension fund.
HSBC accepted that opinion, but Mr H did not. He asked for an ombudsman to review this 
case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find myself in agreement with our investigators opinion and for broadly the 
same reasons.
It is not in dispute that HSBC reported its loans inaccurately on Mr Hs credit file (and HSBC 
has acknowledged this), so I will uphold this complaint. It only remains for me to decide what 
would be fair compensation in this case.
Although it is clear that the reporting of the HSBC loans as unsecured played a part in the 
third party lenders decision to decline Mr Hs application, I do not know that it was the only 
reason for that decision. The loan may still have been declined anyway. I have seen no 
evidence that the loan would have been granted but for HSBCs error.
Once the loan was declined, and Mr H learned of the error on his credit file, he did not wait 
for HSBC to correct that error and then try again. Nor did he try any other lenders, who may 
have had less strict lending criteria. It has not been suggested that the need for the new loan 
was so urgent that there was no time to explore these options. So I dont think HSBC could 
have foreseen that the consequence of its error would be that Mr H would resort to using his 
pension fund instead. It was Mr Hs choice to do that. In the circumstances, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to order HSBC to reimburse Mr H for the taxes he will have to 
pay the next time he withdraws money from his pension fund.
Turning to the extension of the loan terms in 2016, Mr H says that after a branch manager 
had extended the terms, he was overruled by head office, who contacted Mr H and asked 
him to repay the loans by the original deadline. Mr H held his ground and insisted that the 
variation should be honoured, and HSBC relented. I have seen HSBCs internal notes about 
this issue, and although I cannot see that the branch manager was overruled, it does seem 
that Mr H was given conflicting information about when his loans would mature and that it 
took a while for HSBC to settle on a definite answer, partly because the branch manager had 
moved on to another position and partly because the manager had not updated all of the 
banks records with his decision. However, the branch managers decision prevailed, and the 
extension was confirmed. I agree that this was poor service and I can see that it must have 
been frustrating, but on the other hand Mr H got what he wanted and he doesnt appear to 
have found it to be so annoying that he thought it worth complaining about at the time.
For these reasons, I think that £500 (including the £250 already paid) is fair compensation 
for these matters.
Finally, I cannot consider how HSBC dealt with Mr Hs son as part of this complaint. Mr Hs 
son would have to raise a new complaint with HSBC (although Mr H may help him with this) 
and allow HSBC eight weeks to investigate it first (if this has not already happened). If 
Mr Hs son is not satisfied with the outcome, then he may bring a new complaint to our 
Service.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr H £250, in 
addition to the £250 it has paid him already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman