DRN-2769323
The complaint
D complains about the credit card account provided to it by New Wave Capital Limited 
trading as Capital on Tap.
What happened
The credit card account was opened in July 2019 online. After the initial online application 
Capital on Tap sent an email asking D to complete the application process and electronically 
sign the credit agreement. The email showed that D had been given an £2,200 credit limit 
and the monthly interest rate was 0% on card spend if the account is repaid in full every 
month, otherwise 3.43% on card spend and 4.99% on any cash withdrawals or transfers to 
bank accounts. The credit agreement confirmed the monthly interest rate and the yearly 
Annual Percentage Rate (APR) of 49.90% per annum for purchases, 79.40% per annum for 
any ATM withdrawals or online cash transfers.
When Capital on Tap moved from MasterCard to Visa D was sent a new updated copy of the 
credit agreement which it signed, and this also stated the above rates.
On Ds statements it shows that the interest on card expenditure is 3.43% per month 
(49.90% APR) and interest on cash/draw downs is 4.99% per month (79.40% APR). 
The investigator looked at four complaints D had brought to this service. These were:
D was unhappy it wasn't able to find out the true APR Capital on Tap charged and 
didn't feel Capital on Tap told it on the credit agreement or statements
D felt the account was mis-sold on the basis the interest rate would be a lot lower
D was unhappy that Capital on Tap conducted an annual appraisal and wants to 
know what this is and why?
D was unhappy that Capital on Tap has not published its criteria for how it sets its 
interest rates.
The investigator didnt recommend any of the complaints be upheld. He felt the true APR 
was set out in the credit agreement and statements. He didnt think the account was mis-
sold as B was told what its interest rate would be in the credit agreement before it signed it 
and completed the application. He said he would expect Capital on Tap to review its 
customer accounts and this is set out in its privacy policy. He didnt think Capital on Tap 
should have to publish its criteria for setting interest rates as this is business sensitive 
information.
D disagrees. It says Capital on Tap has always pushed its small number that is 3.43% and 
not the true interest rate of 49.9% APR. 3.43% is not explained anywhere, it's always 
published everywhere but never explained as to why 3.43% is the rate and how it's 
calculated. 49.9% is hidden away and buried with the best example being on page 1 of the 
monthly statements. 3.43% does not represent the true interest rate, it's meaningless as 
whenever an interest rate is published it's an APR number.3.43% presents an impression 
and message that it's a low interest rate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
D has only responded to some of the investigators findings and hasnt made any comments 
about the investigators other findings. I shall similarly focus on the findings D has 
challenged except to say that I agree with the investigators other findings and his reasoning 
and confirm them here.
APR is a measure, for comparison purposes, of the overall cost of a credit facility. It is a 
useful tool for the consumer and shouldnt be difficult to find or buried. Ive looked at how 
Capital on Tap displays the APR. I think it is clearly set out in the credit agreement. I have 
also looked at one of Ds statements for the account. On the first page of the statement I 
cannot find the APR. I can find the following: Interest on card expenditure is 3.43% per 
month and interest on cash/draw downs is 4.99% per month. On the next page I can find the 
following: Interest on card expenditure is 3.43% per month (49.90% APR) and interest on 
cash/draw downs is 4.99% per month (79.40% APR). I do think that over the two pages 
more prominence is given to 3.43% per month than 49.90% APR. But it only took me a few 
seconds to find the APR and so I cant agree that it is buried. I also dont think that D was 
misled by the use of 3.43%. Ds director comes across as a sophisticated and intelligent man 
and I think that had he wanted to do so he would have been able to discover the APR as 
quickly as I could. I dont believe that Ds director would ever have thought that a rate of 
3.43% per month was a low interest rate and be misled in the way he suggests could 
happen. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman