DRN-2771852
The complaint
Mr M (through a representative) complains Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat 
(Cashfloat) didnt carry out sufficient affordability checks. Had it done so, then Mr M says 
Cashfloat wouldnt have provided him with these loans. 
What happened
Mr M took 11 loans between June 2016 and October 2018. Ive included some of the 
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived 
date repayment 
datenumber of 
repaymentslargest 
repayment
1 £500.00 30/06/2016 28/09/2016 3 £236.43
2 £600.00 29/09/2016 04/01/2017 3 £285.97
3 £600.00 16/01/2017 24/04/2017 3 £306.04
4 £600.00 30/04/2017 28/07/2017 3 £282.99
5 £700.00 30/07/2017 17/08/2017 3 £330.75
6 £750.00 18/08/2017 28/11/2017 3 £380.40
7 £750.00 02/01/2018 01/02/2018 3 £348.57
8 £600.00 08/02/2018 27/04/2018 3 £268.59
9 £600.00 01/05/2018 27/07/2018 3 £280.22
10 £750.00 30/07/2018 26/10/2018 3 £356.36
11 £750.00 29/10/2018 18/01/2019 3 £358.83
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Cashfloat to have granted loans 1 and 2. But the 
adjudicator thought all remaining loans shouldnt have been provided. 
From loan 3, the adjudicator said that the commitment Mr M had to pay Cashfloat along with 
the other commitments that she could see in the credit check that Cashfloat carried out 
represented a significant portion of Mr Ms income and therefore the loan was unlikely to be 
sustainable. 
The adjudicator also thought that from loan 6 the pattern of lending had become harmful and 
therefore she upheld this and all later loans for this reason. 
Mr M didnt provide any further comments after receiving the view, so he appears to have 
accepted the adjudicators findings.   
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators assessment about loans 3 - 11. In summary, it 
said;
When looking at the credit check data for loan 3, this had changed by loan 5, 
indicating the larger sums that Mr M was committed to paying may not have been 
paid 
At loan 3 Mr M had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the repayment 
he was due to make
Mr M declared has was living at home and so had smaller monthly outgoings
All accounts were paid on time and in line with the credit agreement
Mr Ms outstanding credit commitments were longer term, unsecured loans rather 
than payday loans
As long as the loans are affordable and sustainable there should be no problem with 
additional borrowing.  
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint.Mr M doesnt appear to disagree with our adjudicators findings that Cashfloat wasnt wrong 
to lend loans 1 and 2. So, it seems this lending isnt in dispute and so I no longer think that I 
need to make a finding about it. But, for completeness, I dont disagree with the findings that 
the adjudicator reached in relation to these loans. 
But I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship 
between Cashfloat and Mr M.  Instead, this decision will focus on whether Cashfloat did 
anything wrong when it granted loans 3 - 11. 
Loan 3
Mr M returned for this loan, just under two weeks after repaying loan 2. He didnt appear to 
have had any problems repaying his previous two loans. He borrowed no more than he did 
for loan 2, even though his largest monthly repayment was slightly up to around £303. 
For this loan, Mr M declared a similar income as he had done for his previous loans, £2,600 
per month and Mr Ms total declared expenditure came to £965, which was slightly up 
compared to his two previous loans. 
At this point in the lending relationship, Cashfloat was entitled to rely on the information Mr M 
provided and based solely on what he declared the loan wouldve looked affordable.
However, as the adjudicator pointed out, Cashfloat carried out a credit check before granting 
this loan. And what Cashfloat couldnt do was ignore the information it was provided with by 
the credit reference agencies. 
Cashfloat has only been able to provide this service with the credit check results for loans 4 
 11.  Loan 4, was approved three months after loan 3, so Ive considered, by the start date 
of the account(s) what Cashfloat wouldve likely seen when loan three had started. 
What I would add, is that Cashfloat wouldve known on the credit check for loan 3, that within 
the previous 12 months Mr M had experienced some repayment problems, because the 
worse status marker within the last year was marked as a 3. I can see this relates to a 
credit card, where a number of payments werent made towards the end of 2016 shortly 
before this loan was approved. 
Looking at the credit report form loan 4, it looks like Mr M was making payments to 10 other 
creditors and these are classed as either, credit cards, unsecured loan or finance house. But 
the repayments that the credit file says were due to be paid comes to around £1,843. On top 
of this Mr M had declared that he had £240 of other costs which he declared in his 
application (rent, food, utilities and transport). He was also committed to paying Cashfloat 
around £307.
At the time the loan was approved, Cashfloat knew or ought to have been aware that Mr M 
was already significantly over indebted and was already committed to spending the majority 
of his income solely on credit commitments. In my view, that wasnt sustainable, and was 
likely to be unaffordable. Therefore, there was, in my view, likelihood that Mr M would need 
to return for further borrowing.  
Ive thought about what Cashfloat says about the credit file data on the later report showing 
Mr M wasnt making the level of payments for some of the accounts that the credit file 
suggested and there doesnt appear to have been any adverse markings as a result of 
making smaller repayments. It also says, that as Mr M was living at home, he wouldnt have had some of the other living 
costs that are associated with renting, such as council tax. But I dont think these points 
change my mind about the outcome for this loan.
I say this because, although Mr M declared he wasnt living at home with parents which 
could then explain smaller (or no costs for things like rent or council tax) that doesnt mean 
the loan was sustainable, which was part of what Cashfloat needed to consider before 
granting the loan. And, based on what Ive said above I dont think the fact that Mr M may 
have had lower living costs but was paying a significant number of other creditors made the 
loan sustainable. 
Ive also considered what Cashfloat says about the credit file, and what it showed at later 
loans. But at the time when loan 3 was approved, Cashfloat wouldnt have known what may 
or may not happen with Mr Ms other creditors. It was expected, because that was what was 
recorded on the credit file, that Mr M would pay the amounts that were due. So, for the 
reasons given above I think that Cashfloat ought not to have approved loan 3. 
Based on what Ive seen Mr Ms financial position didnt seem to significantly change when 
loans 4 and 5 were granted  he still appears to have owed a significant number of other 
creditors money. So, I think those loans should be upheld for the same reasons that Ive 
outlined above. 
Loans 6 onwards
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Cashfloats lending history with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point Cashfloat ought to have realised Mr M wasnt managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr M had taken out 6 loans within 14 months and Mr M had been 
indebted to Cashfloat for the whole time. So Cashfloat ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mr M was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ms first loan was for £500 and loan 6 was for £750.  At this point Cashfloat ought 
to have known that Mr M was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in 
their income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Throughout the entire lending relationship, Mr M was typically given a new loan with 
a day or so of repaying his previous one. To me this shows he had an ongoing need 
for this type and credit and was using it to fill a hole left in his finances by repaying 
his previous loan. 
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Cashfloat. Loan 11 was 
taken out 28 months after Mr Ms. And it was Mr Ms joint largest loan and it also 
meant Mr Ms contractual repayments were about £130 more per month, compared 
to the first loan. Mr M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt 
to Cashfloat over an extended period.I think Mr M lost out because Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loan 3 - 11 and Cashfloat should put things right 
as Ive set out below.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr M from loan 3, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Cashfloat shouldnt have given Mr M loans 3 - 11 and Ive set out below what Im directing 
Cashfloat to do to put things right.
 
a) Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans.
b) Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mr M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
c) Cashfloat should pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
d) remove any negative information about loans 3 - 5 from Mr Ms credit file; the number 
of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded about them is 
adverse. So, all entries about loans 6 - 11 should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint in part.
Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat should put things right as Ive directed above.
   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman