DRN-2963934
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with his Equifax Limited (Equifax) credit score. He thinks it's too low and not 
in line with other credit reference agencies.
What happened
Mr B checked his credit score with Equifax in April 2021, it was 141. He didn't believe this to 
be accurate, he complained to Equifax, asking it to explain how his credit score was 
calculated. He wasn't satisfied with the explanation it gave. As the facts of this complaint are 
well known to all parties, I've summarised the main points below:
There were incorrect entries on his credit report relating to two different businesses  
B1 a mobile phone provider and B2 a utilities company. 
B1 was showing an outstanding balance on a loan account, which Mr B says was 
settled in March 2021.
B2 was showing that there had been missed payments on this account, Mr B says 
the account was paid in full, in a shorter time than was originally agreed.
Mr B's credit score increased to 254 following his complaint, which Mr B says shows 
his previous score had been calculated incorrectly.
Mr B says his score is higher with other credit reference agencies and so feels 
Equifax's score should be of a similar level.
Equifax raised a dispute with B1 on behalf of Mr B. B1 confirmed the loan was settled 
on 29 March 2021 and had a zero balance. When Equifax relayed this information to 
Mr B it mistakenly told him the details of the loan would remain on file for six years 
from the date of the default. When in fact B1 had never recorded a default against 
this account.
Mr B remained unhappy with Equifax's response and so brought his complaint to this 
service. Our investigator looked into Mr B's complaint and upheld it in part, in summary he 
said:
He was satisfied that Equifax had explained, it takes into account several factors when it 
generates a credit score, to Mr B and it didn't have to tell him exactly how it calculated its 
scores. Each credit reference agency has its own algorithms for generating credit scores so 
there is no guarantee that they will reflect in the same way, but that didn't mean Equifax had 
done something wrong when calculating his score.
Mr B's credit score had increased due to the usage of his credit card decreasing between 
the two scores being recorded, and he felt that was a suitable explanation for the change.
Equifax raised a dispute with B1 as it should have, and the account was now reflected 
accurately. He understood why Equifaxs mistake saying there was a default would have 
upset Mr B. However, Equifax had since confirmed, again, that no default was recorded and 
this was human error by its agent when typing the response to Mr B.
Equifax should have raised the dispute to B2 on behalf of Mr B when he queried the entry, 
but it didn't and so it should pay Mr B £100 to compensate him for the trouble and upset it 
had caused him.
Equifax accepted the investigator's findings. Mr B did not accept the findings and so the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I've come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for much the 
same reasons, I'll explain.
I realise that I've summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and I've done so 
using my own words. I've concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so but this doesn't mean that I've not considered 
everything that both parties have given to me. And I mean it as no disrespect to either party.
Id like to reassure Mr B that the credit score he sees on his personal Equifax file is an 
illustration of how Equifax thinks potential lenders might look at his credit history. It's not a 
guarantee of what any given company will think. It's just a general indication which helps 
customers get a simple view of how their credit file might be perceived. 
Credit reference agencies differ from one to another and each will have its own way of 
calculating a score based on criteria that it thinks is important. Just because Mr Bs credit 
score is reflecting higher on another agencys site, it doesnt mean that the score Equifax 
has calculated has been done so incorrectly, just that it places different weight on the data it 
holds. It is not our role to tell Equifax how it should rate different factors. The algorithm it 
uses is entirely its choice and it does not have to disclose this as it is commercially sensitive 
to its business. But I consider it good practice for it to tell Mr B the types of things that could 
be affecting his score  which Im satisfied it did.
Equifax also explained to Mr Bs that his credit score increased, following his complaint, due 
to his credit card usage reducing, and I consider this to be a reasonable explanation for this 
and dont agree that it shows the original score was incorrect..
Turning to the data that is shown on a credit file - this information is owned and provided to 
Equifax by creditors such as, but not limited to, banks, utility companies and local authorities. 
As Equifax doesnt own the information, it doesnt have the power to edit it. But it can, and 
should, raise a dispute to the information owners, if the subject of the data raises a dispute 
about the information held. Just as Mr B did about B1 and B2.
I think its worth noting here that the information displayed on a credit file is not in real time  
it is usually, but not always, updated monthly. This means the information reflected can 
sometimes be out of date  but that doesnt mean Equifax has done something wrong, as its 
the responsibility of the business that owns the information to make sure it is updated 
regularly.
B1I can see that Equifax raised a dispute with B1 and clarified that the account had been 
settled and no balance was outstanding  this was updated and has now been reflected on 
Mr Bs credit file. Unfortunately, when it let Mr B know this it mistakenly said there had been 
a default, which it has since confirmed there never was. 
I have seen nothing to suggest this affected his credit score in any way and Im satisfied it 
was never reflected on his credit file. But I accept this would have worried Mr B and 
understand why he has been so upset with this error.
B2
Equifax should have raised a dispute with B2 about its entry on Mr Bs credit file - but failed 
to do so  leaving Mr B to take it up with B2 himself. Mr B has since dealt with B2 directly 
and so Equifax cant put things right here by raising a dispute now. And so, I think the fair 
thing for it to do is to compensate Mr B for this error. 
When deciding on the compensation for this I have taken into account the fact that B2 didnt 
agree with the dispute. And so, Mr B had to take his complaint about it to a different 
ombudsman service to resolve before it agreed to change the information. So, even if 
Equifax had raised the dispute on his behalf its unlikely it would have been resolved at that 
stage. However, its error will have caused some delay and with that in mind I think its 
reasonable for it to pay Mr B £100 for the inconvenience it caused.
I appreciate that this isnt the answer Mr B was hoping for and accept that it may come as a 
disappointment to him. But it does bring to a close what we - as a service - can do for him in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Equifax.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint against 
EQUIFAX LIMITED trading as Equifax. I now require it to:
Pay Mr B £100 for the inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman