DRN-2028715
The complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as TSB) mis-sold him a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1994 when he applied 
for a credit card.
What happened
Mr G complained to this Service. He bought a PPI policy in 1994. He says he wasnt aware it 
had been added to his credit card account. He wasnt told it was optional, he says he didnt 
need it because he had other resources to rely on  like good employee benefits, a car he 
could have sold and his parents. So he concludes it was mis-sold. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr G disagreed 
with our adjudicators view and asked for the whole matter to be looked at 
again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I know this will be a 
disappointing result for him, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether Lloyds Bank made it clear the policy was an optional product. 
Lloyds Bank produced a copy of a sample of a credit card application which it says Mr G 
would have seen in 1994. I can see there was a separate section of the form headed 
Payments Insurance. I can see there was a place for Mr G, or a Lloyds Bank adviser 
to tick the PPI box in this section if he required credit card repayment insurance. And 
there was a No box to tick to decline the offer. I think the active selection for PPI 
means Lloyds Bank probably made it clear that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that he probably chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not be 
able to remember this.
The policy was recommended so Lloyds Bank had to recommend a policy which was 
suitable for Mr Gs financial needs. In this case, I think it was a suitable product for him. I 
say this because he was eligible to buy it, he wasnt affected by the things not covered in 
the policy (the exclusions). And it seems it was affordable for him at the time.
Mr G said he would get employee benefits and had savings. But the PPI could have been 
useful if he wasnt able to work or had lost his job. And it could have lasted for longer than 
and in addition to his employee benefits  leaving his savings for other expenses. So I 
dont think his finances made the policy unsuitable.
Mr G said he could rely on his parents to pay for his credit card if he couldnt afford the 
repayments. I understand the point he is making. But there was no guarantee he could 
rely on this help at some unknown point in the future. So I dont think this made the 
policy unsuitable at the time of the sale.
He also told us he could have sold his car. But a car is a depreciating asset and may not 
have covered his outstanding balance at some unknown point in the future. So I dont 
think this made the policy unsuitable at the time of the sale.
Lloyds Bank also had to give Mr G enough information which was clear, fair and not 
misleading so he could make an informed decision.
I dont know how Lloyds Bank told Mr G about the cost and benefits of the policy. But having 
decided he chose to take it out, it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems it 
would have been useful for him if something went wrong. So even if he had been given 
detailed information about the cost and benefits, I dont think it would have put him off from 
buying the PPI.
Lloyds Bank should also have pointed out the main exclusions. I dont know how it 
did this, but it does not appear that Mr G was affected by the main exclusions. So - 
even if hed been given a full list of them - I dont think it would have put him off from 
buying the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think the policy was most likely shown as optional, 
it was suitable for his needs and Mr G was probably given enough information to 
make an informed decision. So I am not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman