DRN-2569781
The complaint
Mr Os unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline his claim made under a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr O stopped working in March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic and was furloughed by 
his employer. Mr O made a claim with Aviva for disability benefits under his PPI policy. 
Aviva assessed the claim and ultimately declined it on the grounds that, while Mr O had 
been advised by the NHS to be particularly stringent in following social distancing 
measures, he wasnt off work sick. Aviva said it would consider a claim outside of the policy 
terms if Mr O had been advised by the NHS to shield but that the evidence didnt show that 
was the case.
Mr O felt Aviva had declined the claim unfairly since he was classed as at high risk due to 
his medical conditions. Because Mr O and Aviva couldnt resolve the dispute between 
themselves, Mr O complained to us. 
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint and believed Aviva had acted fairly in the 
circumstances.
As Mr O was unhappy with the adjudicators findings, the complaint was passed to me to 
review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I note that the parties agree that Mr O wasnt unemployed as per the policy terms since he 
was still in work during the period in question and had been furloughed by his employer. So, 
I wont address that issue in detail here other than to say I agree a claim for unemployment 
benefits isnt payable in the circumstances for the same reasons.
Turning to Mr Os disability claim, the policy terms say benefits will be paid if accident or 
sickness prevents him from working. Accident or sickness is defined by the policy as:
Any accident, sickness or disease which occurs after the start date which results in 
you being totally unable to carry out the duties of your normal work and not doing any 
other work, as confirmed by a doctor or specialist  
As I understand it, Mr O hasnt suffered accident or sickness that prevents him from carrying 
out the duties of his work. Although he suffers with medical conditions, those conditions 
didnt in themselves stop him from working.
As such, I dont believe Mr O satisfied the policy requirements for claiming disability benefits. 
Mr O argues that the policy terms make no mention of COVID-19, pandemics or furlough, 
meaning there was no justification for declining his claim. I agree these arent specifically 
mentioned. Nevertheless, I dont believe Mr Os claim is payable based on the terms as 
theyre set out.
That said, Avivas said it was still prepared to consider a claim if Mr O could show hed been 
advised to shield  that is, to stay at home because he was classed as clinically extremely 
vulnerable. To date, I havent seen any evidence demonstrating that. Although Mr Os 
provided a copy of a letter showing he was at increased risk of severe illness should he 
contract COVID-19, he wasnt classed as clinically extremely vulnerable or advised to shield 
as a result. Instead, he was advised to be particularly stringent in following social distancing 
measures.   
I note that Aviva also called Mr Os GP surgery to check if hed been advised to shield and 
that it confirmed he hadnt been. 
  
I realise this has been a difficult time for Mr O but, in the circumstances, I dont believe 
Avivas treated him unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman