DRN-4119354
The complaint
Miss P and Mr W complain about Haven Insurance Company Limited (Haven) who has 
avoided their cover (treated it as though it never existed), following their claim under their 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss P and Mr W obtained home insurance cover with Haven. They made a claim under the 
policy. During the claims investigation, Haven discovered that Miss P and Mr W didnt 
disclose the full claims history. It said that when they were asked about the number of claims 
made in the last five years, they disclosed four out of the six claims made. 
Due to the discovery, Haven voided Miss P and Mr Ws policy. It considered that the 
misrepresentation was a deliberate misrepresentation, which meant it could void the policy 
and decline the claim, which it did. 
Miss P and Mr W didnt agree with Havens conclusion. They said that they entered all the 
claims that had been made and had evidence to prove it. They said that the price 
comparison website that they used (in order to buy the policy) failed to carry over the 
information that they inputted in the system. So, the fault lied with Havens and the price 
comparison system and not with them. 
Miss P said that she then obtained other insurance and received cover. The application was 
made in Mr Ws name only. But again, Haven said that she hadnt provided complete or 
accurate details about the previous claims. 
They were given their referral rights, as Haven maintained its position in its final response. It 
also refunded all the premiums paid. 
Miss P and Mr W referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators, considered 
the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. His view was that there was evidence to 
show that Miss P and Mr W hadnt disclosed all the relevant claims. Although, he accepted 
that five claims were inputted in the price comparison website, two of those claims were over 
five years old and so automatically disregarded by the system. Consequently, he said that 
Haven were fair to void the policy and decline the claim. 
Haven accepted the view, Miss P and Mr W did not. They maintained their position that the 
fault fell with both the Haven and price comparison websites and that they hadnt made a 
misrepresentation. They also said that they hadnt received their policy documents. So, they 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator, which I understand is likely to be a disappointment to Miss P and Mr W. But I 
hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The relevant law in this case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Haven said that there is an onus on a policyholder to ensure that the information they 
provide is accurate and factually correct. It also said that had it been made fully aware of all 
of the claims history, it would not have offered cover. Based on this, Haven said that the 
misrepresentation by Miss P and Mr W was deliberate.
Because Haven said that the misrepresentation was deliberate, Ive had a look at the 
questions that Miss P and Mr W were asked, to assess whether it was reasonable for Haven 
to declare that Miss P and Mr W made a deliberate misrepresentation. 
Miss P and Mr W were asked on the price comparison website (among other questions) how 
many claims had there been in the past five years. I think this question is clear. And Miss P 
and Mr W said that they had disclosed all the claims. They also said that there was an error 
with the system on the price comparison website and the system on Havens website that 
didnt pull through all the information they entered. So, Ive had a look at this further. 
Haven said that it obtained the information from the price comparison website and that 
information disclosed that Miss P and Mr W entered four claims (out of six). Miss P said that 
she had proof by way of video (which I have viewed) that showed that she entered all the 
claims. She also said that those claims were dated from 2016  2018. 
I note that two of the claims that Miss P said she entered were dated in 2016 and 2017. The 
other three claims were dated in 2018. But the first two dates from 2016 to 2017, were over 
five years ago. 
As the first two entries are outside the five-year period, those would be disregarded. 
Consequently, the last three claims wouldve been pulled through. And the policy that Miss P 
and Mr W subsequently bought in Mr Ws name only, disclosed the last three claims. 
Because of this, I cant agree that Miss P and Mr W are able to rely on this, as its clear that 
all the claims were not disclosed. And Im satisfied that the information was inaccurate. 
Miss P and Mr W also said that they hadnt received the policy documents from Haven. I 
asked Haven about this, and it explained that it emailed the documents to the email address 
it had on file. I have checked the address and it corresponds to the email that our service 
has on file for Miss P and Mr W. Also, Haven confirmed that it had sent the policy schedule, terms of business, demands and 
needs statement, statement of fact (that only disclosed four claims) and a direct debit 
schedule. Accordingly, Im satisfied that Miss P and Mr W were sent the documents. I say 
this as I havent read any evidence from Miss P or Mr W to say that they had reported to 
Haven that they hadnt received the documents. And I think its reasonable, that had the 
documents not been received, for Miss P and Mr W to have contacted Haven to request that 
it send them again. I havent seen any evidence of Miss P or Mr W having done so. 
I have next considered Miss P and Mr Ws complaint that Haven ought to have known about 
all the previous claims, as they had purchased policies with the same provider over the 
years. Whilst I understand their comments, this doesnt absolve them from providing 
complete and accurate information when requested to do so.
Each new policy that Miss P and Mr W obtained, is a new contract between them and the 
provider. As such, it is incumbent for them to provide both accurate and complete 
information. This then allows the provider to assess whether it wants to take on the risk. 
From the evidence before me, I cant see that Miss P or Mr W provided both complete or 
accurate information and as such, Im persuaded by Havens contentions that the 
misrepresentation was deliberate. 
Finally, Miss W and Mr P complained that Haven had entered a cancellation marker against 
them. Haven confirmed that this had been done. It said it relied on the information obtained 
from the price comparison website, which it provided to me. Based on the evidence, Im 
satisfied that Miss P and Mr W were informed that a declaration would be needed if a 
provider either cancelled/voided or imposed special terms on a policy. And Haven explained 
that it is entitled to record the cancellation, if it wants to. As this is a business decision, I 
dont have the power to recommend against it. 
Taking everything into consideration. I find that the onus was on Miss P and Mr W to 
disclose factually correct and relevant information as required by the terms of the policy. 
Which then wouldve allowed Haven to make an informed choice as to whether it wouldve 
wanted to take on the risk. As this wasnt done, Im satisfied that Haven provided enough 
evidence to show there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And I think it was 
reasonable to void the policy (treated it as if it had never existed). I also think that it was fair 
to offer to refund the premiums paid, from inception of this policy until it was voided. Whilst I 
appreciate that this is not the outcome that Miss P and Mr W wouldve liked, I cant 
reasonably ask Haven to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
Haven Insurance Company Limited has agreed to refund the premiums paid, from inception 
of this policy until it was voided. And I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Haven Insurance Company Limited must refund the premiums paid, 
from inception of this policy until it was voided, within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Miss P and Mr W accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. If it hasnt 
already done so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman