DRN-4334484
The complaint
Miss L complains that EQUIFAX LIMITED (Equifax) failed to properly remove incorrect 
information it was displaying on her credit file.   
What happened
Miss L complained to Equifax around September 2022 when she realised her twin sisters 
data had been merged with her own and was being displayed on her credit file. She said this 
was impacting her credit score, which she felt was lower than it should have been. 
As well as their date of births being the same, Miss L shares the same first and last name as 
her twin sister, they also share an address. They are differentiated by their middle names.
Equifax issued a Notice of Disassociation (NOD) to correct the matter in answer to the 
complaint. However, this didnt fully resolve the matter and so Miss L complained to it again 
in December 2022. 
Equifax investigated and in February 2023, they issued a further NOD adding in some the 
variations both sisters use in their names. This resolved the matter in as far as Miss Ls 
sisters accounts stopped appearing on her Equifax report. But Equifax were unable to stop 
Miss Ls sisters electoral register (ER) information from showing on Miss Ls credit file. It did 
explain to Miss L this wouldnt affect her credit rating as the ER is public information that 
lenders would be able to see regardless of if it showed on her file or not. But they offered to 
add a Notice of Correction (NOC) to her file so lenders could see the ER information was not 
Miss Ls, which Miss L accepted. And they paid Miss L £200 for the inconvenience the 
matter had caused.
In April 2023 hard searches appeared on Miss Ls credit file in her sisters name. As 
Equifaxs hadnt resolved the issue fully Miss L brought her complaint to this service.
Our Investigator upheld Miss Ls complaint and to put things right said Equifax should 
remove the hard searches that were appearing and pay Miss L a further £100. Equifax 
agreed with the investigators findings. Miss L didnt, she wanted reassurances that the issue 
wouldnt happen again. She also said she was still able to see her sisters accounts on a 
third-party credit information agency which is provided information by Equifax. She feels this 
shows that Equifax are still merging hers and her sisters financial data. She feels Equifax 
should be able to remove her sisters ER data from her credit file as it was able to remove 
her mothers ER data from her file previously. She also wanted reassurances that her credit 
score will rise once her credit record is clean.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. 
There is no dispute between the parties about what has happened so Im only looking at 
what needs to happen now to rectify the issue.
Miss L has questioned why her sisters ER data cant be removed from her file when her 
mothers was. The reason Equifax has given for this, and I accept, is although Miss Ls 
mother also shares the same name, she has a different date of birth and so Equifax were 
able to add this to their systems to differentiate the parties. However, as Miss L and her 
sister share the same date of birth it is unable to apply the same approach. 
As a work around Equifax applied a NOC to Miss Ls file, which I think is a suitable remedy 
for this issue in the circumstances. But looking at the credit report dated 4 September 2023, 
the NOC seems to have dropped off and disappeared. So, Equifax need to find the reason 
for this and do whatever is needed to make sure it is visible on the credit file and stays so.
I understand how frustrating this has been for Miss L as each time she has thought it would 
be fixed the issue has reoccurred. Equifax seem to have been able to remove Miss Ls 
sisters accounts from the credit file it displays. But having seen a credit report from 4 
September 2023, it appears her sisters hard searches are still being displayed on Miss Ls 
report. So, Equifax need to ensure these are now removed and put in place a way of 
monitoring the issue and removing any future searches swiftly if the issue recurs in the 
future.
Miss L has said that she can still see her sisters accounts on the third-party credit 
information website. I accept that to be the case and although they are provided with 
information by Equifax, they are a separate business and so I cant hold Equifax responsible 
for the information being displayed by them, especially as I have seen that Equifax has 
removed this data from its reports. So, Miss L will need to raise this as a separate issue with 
the third-party business. I know she has told us she has already tried this and been ignored 
but again their lack of response isnt something Equifax is responsible for, so I cant fairly 
ask them to do anything about this. 
Miss L would like reassurances that the issues wont arise again, but unfortunately, I dont 
think this is something that anyone can give. Miss L has been advised by this service to 
make sure her and her sister continue to use their middle names when making financial 
applications to help mitigate the cause of the data merge. Other than that, all that I can 
suggest here is, should there be a reoccurrence Equifax should aim to deal with the issue 
swiftly, as it is well known to it.
Finally, Miss L would like to know if her credit score will increase as she feels it is unjustly 
low. Now in Miss Ls case there are hard searches on her file that dont belong to her, and 
these should now be removed by Equifax. But I must point out to Miss L this doesnt 
automatically mean her score will go up. I say this because the credit score Equifax provides 
to Miss L is its view of how lenders might see her based on the information it holds on her 
credit file. Its purpose is to give her an indication of her credit worthiness and there are 
many factors that contribute to the score and can affect it both positively and negatively. The 
score is calculated using an automated algorithm so isnt something that can be manually 
changed. Things that can, but dont always, have a negative impact vary but can include, not 
having had much credit in the past, address changes, limited number of accounts, regular 
applications for credit  displayed as hard searches. The score isnt shared with lenders, only the information in the credit file is shared for 
lenders to make their own assessments. Lenders will often have their own internal scoring 
system, that they can sometimes refer to when declining applications, saying the application 
didnt meet the credit score criteria, or something similar. So, it might help Miss L to look at 
the score as Equifaxs view rather than something which is set in stone. Ultimately, lenders 
will make their decisions based on the information contained in her credit report rather than 
the number of the score Equifax provides to her.
To summarise Im upholding Miss Ls complaint in part and think Equifax need to take some 
actions to make things right here, which Ill cover in the next section. And hopefully my 
explanations, on the areas where Im not asking Equifax to take action, have helped Miss L 
in understanding those issues better. 
Putting things right
To put things right now I require Equifax to:
Remove all hard searches from Miss Ls credit file that relate to her sister and 
remove any future searches swiftly should the issue recur.
Make sure the NOC for ER data is visible on Miss Ls credit file for lenders to see and 
ensure it stays so.
Pay Miss L £100 for the delays in rectifying the issues.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I currently uphold this complaint and I require EQUIFAX 
LIMITED to carry out the actions as set out under the Putting things right section of this 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2024.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman