DRN-1627849
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy through a total mortgage protection policy (TMPP).
What happened
In 2009, at a meeting with the bank, Mr M took out a mortgage and PPI policy to protect his 
mortgage repayments in the event of unemployment. TMPP was a package of different 
types of insurance, including mortgage repayment cover, which is a form of PPI. Mr M also 
took out life cover. Im just dealing with the PPI part of his policy here.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. Mr M didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. Mr Ms complaint comes to me to decide
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed when Mr M took out the insurance. Mr M said he 
wasn't told he had a choice about PPI and that he was also led to believe he had sickness 
cover. He said it was only when he tried to make a claim on the policy that he learnt he 
wasnt covered for sickness. He also said he didn't need PPI because his wife was also 
working and he had a private pension. Ive seen the demands and needs statement 
completed at the time recording why Bank of Scotland said PPI was suitable for him. Ive 
also seen the correspondence he was sent when PPI was added, setting out how much the 
insurance cost and the type of cover he had.
In order to uphold Mr Ms complaint, Id have to find that its more likely that he wasnt given 
a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to his mortgage account without his consent. He 
said he was led to believe he had to take PPI to get the mortgage. But I cant fairly say that 
based on the information Ive got, and what we know about Bank of Scotlands sales 
processes around that time.
From the paperwork Ive seen, and from what Mr M's said, I think it was probably made clear 
that PPI was optional. The cost of PPI was listed separately. The correspondence said that 
cover for unemployment cost £32.48 per month and cover for life insurance cost £42.71 per 
month. I think it was made clear that the cost was separate to his mortgage payment, and he 
didnt have to take PPI. So, I think he probably wouldve understood that it wasnt necessary 
to take PPI to get the mortgage, but opted to do so. Looking at the demands and needs 
statement, I think it likely that there wouldve been a conversation about the type of cover he wanted as disability cover (often referred to as accident and sickness cover) was not 
selected. I think, probably, Mr M selected cover to suit his needs at the time. 
So, I dont have enough to safely conclude that Mr M wasnt given enough information about 
the optional nature of PPI to make an informed choice that he wanted it. On balance, I think 
probably Mr M was persuaded, at that time, of the need to protect his home by taking out the 
PPI offered and decided to buy the policy.
The policy was recommended to Mr M. So, Bank of Scotland had to make sure the policy 
was suitable for him, as well as giving him information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading, so that he could make an informed choice about whether the policy was right for 
him and he wanted to buy it.
The mortgage was in Mr M's name only and so only he was covered under the policy. Mr M 
said his wife wouldve helped with the mortgage repayments and they had sufficient income 
not to need PPI.  Ive taken into account Mrs Ms circumstances too when deciding if the 
policy was right for Mr M. But, it doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable for Mr M based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances when the policy was sold. I say this because:
     Mr M appeared eligible to take out the cover.
     Mr M said he wouldve got between three to six months worth of sick pay from work if he 
was unable to work. He also said he couldve relied on his wifes pay to pay the mortgage 
repayments. He didnt mention having any savings. I understand the pension he mentioned 
wasn't in payment, so at the time that didn't bring in any extra income. Overall, I think TMPP 
couldve provided Mr M with useful protection. It wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per 
claim if he was made unemployed. As he didnt take out disability cover, he wouldnt have 
been able to claim for accident and sickness, but I think this was made clear in the 
paperwork he was sent when he took out the policy. TMPP gave Mr M long term protection if 
he was made unemployed. It wouldve allowed them to use Mr Ms wifes salary to meet their 
other household expenses. So, I cant see that Mr Ms other resources made this policy 
unsuitable for him.
     there were some things the policy didnt cover. I cant see that Mr M was affected by 
these. So, I dont think having more information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve 
affected his decision to take out the policy.
     Mr M paid a monthly premium for TMPP. He didnt have to pay interest on the premium 
and couldve stopped the policy at any time without losing out financially. I cant see that it 
was unaffordable.
     Mr M was told the cost of the policy up front. Its possible he couldve been given clear 
information about the costs and benefits. But, I dont think having clearer information 
wouldve changed his decision as the TMPP seemed affordable, he knew how much it was 
going to cost and agreed to take it out, and it was suitable for his needs.
Taking all of this into account, I think the TMPP policy couldve provided Mr M with useful 
protection to safeguard his home.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy was sold. But, I 
think Mr M still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if he had been better advised and 
informed as the policy gave him useful protection in his  circumstances. I cant see that hes 
lost out because of anything that Bank of Scotland may have done wrong.My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman