DRN-3961423
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain they were mis-sold an endowment plan by a predecessor scheme of 
The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London). 
Mr and Mrs P are being represented by a claims management company (CMC) with this 
complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P were sold an endowment plan in March 1987.
As well as being a savings vehicle, the policy provided life cover on a joint and decreasing 
basis, for a term of 25 years. The policy had an initial monthly premium of £8.40 and an 
initial sum assured of £15,000.  
Royal London have said that Mr and Mrs P continued to pay the premiums for twenty years 
until 2007. They have said that whilst it essentially lapsed from this point, it still continued 
with a value as it included a survival benefit. 
The plan matured in April 2012. Mr and Mrs P were paid approximately £2,720. This 
included a survival benefit, a terminal bonus and a reversionary bonus. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to Royal London through their CMC, in September 2022. Amongst 
complaint points, they said that the policy had been sold without due care as Mr P wasnt 
employed at the time of sale. They also said that Mr and Mrs P had no need for the life 
cover, as they had no liabilities at the time to protect. 
Royal London responded to say that due to the time that has passed, there was a lack of 
relevant information from the point of sale. They said that it had been sold prior to the 
implementation of the Financial Services Act, and the requirement to know your client. 
Based on the information they had, they didnt think there was anything wrong with the sale 
of the plan. 
The complaint was brought to our service for an independent review. An investigator looked 
into it. He said that he didnt think based on the information provided to him, that the plan 
sold was unaffordable and nor did he think that the advisor has acted without reasonable 
skill and care. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as the investigator, Ill explain why. 
Understandably, due to the amount of time that has passed since the sale in 
1987, Royal London havent been able to provide me with any of the point-of-sale 
documentation. I have therefore had to base my decision on any information I do have and 
what I think were the most likely circumstances at the time. 
As has already been correctly noted by all parties in this case, this policy wasnt sold until 
after investment advice had become regulated (through the Financial Services Act 1986, 
which came into effect from 29 April 1988). Before this, advisers didnt have to consider if a 
recommendation was suitable for a consumers circumstances. Instead, advisers had to 
advise with reasonable skill and care.
Mr and Mrs Ps CMC have said that due care wasnt taken, in part because this policy was 
sold to the couple whilst neither were recorded as employed. I cant be sure what their 
circumstances were at the time. Whether Mr or Mrs P were planning on returning to 
employment or whether they had sufficient means elsewhere to pay the £8.40 monthly 
premium. However, I am satisfied it was affordable for them based on the fact that they 
continued to pay it for twenty years. 
Mr and Mrs Ps CMC have also said that the policy shouldnt have been sold to them as they 
had no liability to protect. I have no information from the point of sale to show there was a 
loan or mortgage that decreasing cover would have protected. However, this doesnt negate 
any need for life cover. There may have been other family circumstances it would have 
protected and it would have provided provisions and a safety net for each of Mr and Mrs P, if 
either had passed away. I havent seen anything to show considerable savings or 
investments elsewhere. They were stated as not having any other life cover. So, Im satisfied 
the adviser acted with reasonable case in selling this policy.  
In summary, whilst much time has passed since the sale, Im satisfied that the advisor acted 
with reasonable skill and care. The plan appears that it was affordable and I cant say there 
was clearly no need for it.  
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman