DRN-3744135
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In January 2022, Mr F received a phone call from someone claiming to be from HSBCs 
fraud department. They told him criminals had tried to use his bank account and that they 
were working with the police to try to identify them. The caller then told Mr C they would 
transfer some money into his account and asked him to use that money to make two 
payments out of his account, as this would help them catch the criminals. Mr F then made 
two payments out of his account, for £4,900 and £9,600, to the bank details the caller gave 
him. Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer.
The scam was uncovered after Mr C received a text message from HSBC about the £9,600 
payment. He then called HSBC but it said it hadnt called him earlier or asked him to make 
any payments, and so explained he had been the victim of a scam. HSBC was able to 
reverse the payment of £9,600 as it hadnt yet left Mr Fs account, but it couldnt reverse the 
payment of £4,900.
Mr F complained to HSBC that it should have done more to protect him. HSBC investigated 
but said it felt it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place and that Mr F could have 
done more to prevent the scam. So it didnt agree to refund the money hed lost. Mr F wasnt 
satisfied with HSBCs response, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think HSBC had established 
that it provided Mr F with an effective warning before he made the payment. But they also 
didnt think Mr F had a reasonable basis for believing that the caller was genuine. So they 
thought HSBC should refund 50% of the £4,900 payment Mr F had lost. Mr F didnt agree 
with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr F fell victim to, in all but a limited number 
of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr F have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
This was a cruel scam and I appreciate that Mr F thought the call he received was legitimate 
and he was genuinely being asked to help with a police investigation. But there were a 
number of things which I think should have caused him concern about what was happening.
The call he received came from an unrecognised mobile number, rather than from a number 
associated with HSBC. And there doesnt appear to have been any number spoofing on the 
call, so it wont have appeared on Mr Fs phone as coming from HSBC.
Mr F has said the caller knew his name and that he had an account with HSBC, and that the 
background noise on the call made it sound as if it was coming from a call centre. But the 
caller doesnt appear to have known any specific, personal information about Mr F or his 
account. And they didnt take him through any sort of security or identity verification process, 
as I would expect a genuine call from a bank to do.
Mr F was asked to download software onto his phone, so that the caller could check his 
bank account. But I wouldnt expect a genuine bank to need to do this, as it should be able 
to check customers accounts through its own systems.
Mr F was also asked to make two payments, to two different individuals, but doesnt appear 
to have been given any explanation of who these people were or why the payments were 
being made to them specifically. And he was asked to enter false information about the 
reasons for the payments when making them.
And while Mr F received a text message saying money had been paid into his account, he 
didnt see this money enter his account or check that it had actually gone into his account  
despite having the opportunity to do so when logging into his mobile banking app.
So I think there were a number of things about what was happening that should have caused 
Mr F significant concern. And I dont think the information he was given by the scammers 
should have been enough to overcome those concerns. And so I think HSBC has 
established that Mr F didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when he made the payment.
Did HSBC meet its obligations under the CRM code?
Even though I dont think Mr F had a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment, 
he may still be entitled to a refund of 50% of the money he lost if HSBC didnt meet its obligations under the CRM code  one of which is to provide effective warnings when it 
identifies a scam risk.
As this payment was for a relatively large amount, I think HSBC should have identified a 
scam risk in relation to it and so provided Mr F with an effective warning.
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
HSBC has sent us a copy of the warning Mr F was shown when making the payment, and it 
says:
This could be a scam
Fraudsters may use social media or dating sites to build up a relationship with you. Theyll 
try to gain your trust before asking you to send the money. They may ask you for money for 
emergencies such as travel expenses or medical fees, or to invest in a new business.
Talk to a different family member or friend before sending any money
Fraudsters can pretend to be someone you know to trick you into sending money to them. 
You must check where you are sending the money by contacting them in person.
Stop and verify the person youre dealing with is who they say they are.
While the warning does mention that this payment could be the result of a scam, the 
examples it gives about fraudsters using social media or dating sites and pretending to be 
someone you know arent relevant to the scam Mr F was the victim of. I dont think the 
warning goes into enough detail about what the scam could look or feel like, or is clear 
enough about the severity of the possible risks. And so I dont think this warning was specific 
or impactful enough to be effective in Mr Fs circumstances.
Overall then, I think HSBC has established that Mr F didnt have a reasonable basis for 
belief when he made the payment, but also that HSBC didnt meet its obligations under the 
code. So I think HSBC should refund 50% of the money Mr F lost, under the terms of the 
CRM code.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC UK Plc to:
Refund Mr F 50% of the £4,900 payment he lost as a result of this scam, or £2,450
Pay 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially rejected his claim until 
the date of settlementUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman