DRN-3493150
The complaint
Ms Ps representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on her behalf 
that she was given unsuitable investment advice by Zurich Assurance Ltd (previously Allied 
Dunbar) referred to as Zurich or the business.  
In summary, the CMC said:
Theres no record that a risk assessment was carried out. 
The investment was too high risk.
Ms Ps plan to purchase a property wasnt considered, making the investment for 
income purposes unsuitable.  
What happened
In December 1999, Ms P was advised to invest £10,000 in a single premium investment 
bond. It was to facilitate a regular income, to pay for life cover on a separate policy.
Ms P began to make withdrawals from February 2001. I understand she could make 
withdrawals of up to 5% of the initial investment each tax year, for a maximum of 20 years, 
without any personal liability to tax.
In total Ms P received an income of £10,518. I understand her policy is still in forced and at 
the time of this complaint was valued at around £5,927, although this isnt guaranteed.  
  
At the point of sale Ms P was in her late 20s, single, with no dependants. She had £12,000 
in savings, £7,000 in an equity ISA and life cover in place. She was in full time employment, 
had a net monthly disposable income and living at home with her parents. 
Zurich didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said:
The recommendation was suitable given Ms Ps circumstances at the time. 
The aim of the bond was to provide medium term growth with facility to take regular 
withdrawals. 
Ms Ps father was present at the meeting  the funds were a gift from him. 
Ms P had a balanced attitude to risk. The funds within the bond were suitable for a 
balanced risk investor. 
The funds  the managed fund and the managed income fund  werent unsuitable 
for Ms P given her circumstances and investment objectives. 
The risks associated with the investment were fully explained. 
The bond remains in place and theres no evidence that it was ever intended to be 
used to purchase a property. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary he said:
Ms P had capacity to invest. She had a stable income (with surplus disposable 
monthly income), no debts and no planned expenditure. Therefore, she was in a 
good position to invest some of her money in risk-based investments in order to 
achieve her objective. 
Despite what the CMC says, Ms P had some investment experience and was aware 
of alternative options available to her. 
Ms P had £12,000 in cash savings and a £350 net monthly disposable income 
therefore had capacity to replace loss. She was also unlikely to need access to her 
funds for the recommended period. Ms P has kept her bond in place for 22 years. 
Ms P was prepared to take a balanced risk to achieve her objective. She was 
supplied with the necessary policy documentation and was aware that the returns 
werent guaranteed. Its therefore likely that Ms P made an informed decision to 
invest in the bond, split equally between the funds in question. 
The funds were in line with the level of risk Ms P was prepared to take. 
The asset allocation for the funds included a mix of equities, cash, and fixed interest 
rate bonds. 
Although the managed fund had 85% in equites, 55% were in UK equities which 
wasnt unsuitable for a typical first-time investor or Ms P who had some investment 
experience. 
The managed income fund had more than 30% in lower asset classes (fixed interest 
rate bonds) and 70% in UK equities. A high level of UK equities wasnt unsuitable.  
Out of £10,000 22% (£2,250) was invested in lower risk assts and £6,250 (63%) was 
invested in UK equities. It didnt carry too much risk for Ms P.  
Ms Ps age and source of funds would suggest that she had a much longer 
investment horizon. 
Ms P had planned to buy a property. But theres no evidence that the bond was to be 
used for this purpose.  
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
An extract from the fact find showed that Ms P wanted to buy a property in the next 
year or two. 
She had £1,000 in her current account, £12,000 on deposit and £7,000 in an ISA.
If she wanted to purchase a property in two to three years time shed be using the 
money from her bond so how was she meant to buy a property in one or two years 
time without doing the same?
The reasons why letter also noted that Ms P planned to go on holiday abroad and 
was thinking of changing her job.  
The fact the investment is in existence today doesnt mean that its suitable.  
The investment wasnt balanced risk. So Ms P was recommended something that 
wasnt compatible with her agreed risk profile.
Theres an assumption that Ms P understood the product. The investment has been 
misrepresented. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
It wasnt the ombudsman services role to risk rate the funds. 
Ms P had some investment experience  its not something that can be dismissed.
Ms P was aware of the risks involved and had capacity to tolerate risk. Theres no 
rule to say that a balanced risk investment was unsuitable for a first-
time/inexperienced investors. The fact that the investment is still in force shows that she didnt have any plans for it 
to buy a house.  
Performance isnt something we can consider. Its worth nothing that the markets 
have had a number of setbacks, but this isnt to do with the advice Ms P received.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to say that the recommendation 
was unsuitable for Ms P. 
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope that Ms P wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by the CMC, and Zurich, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, I think the advice 
to invest in the bond was broadly suitable for Ms P. I note that she was in his late 20s, single 
and working with a reasonable net disposable income. She also had a total of £19,000 in 
savings and investments, and the money for the bond was a gift from her father, in order to 
pay for a life policy. I also note she was living at home with her parents, having moved from 
her flat and had no obvious debts or liabilities. 
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Ms P to arrive at the conclusion that she 
was a balanced risk investor. On balance, Im satisfied that Mrs Ps risk appetite was 
discussed and that she was willing to take a balanced risk with a portion of her money to 
meet her objective for income on this occasion. It could be argued that a balanced risk was 
necessary given her objective to fund an existing life cover plan.  
I note Zurich said:
The aim of the managed income fund was to achieve medium to long term growth 
through investing, both in UK and globally to generate and accumulate a steady and 
rising level of income. The fund will invest in a range of assets, including equities and 
interest bearing investments. This is the fund we recommend for investors who wish 
to generate income within the next five years.
The aim of the of the life managed fund is to provide capital growth from a balanced 
investment portfolio spread across a wide range of shares, properties fixed interest 
securities and cash. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im satisfied that 
Ms Ps risk appetite was reasonably considered and that she was recommended a product 
that carried no more risk than she was willing to take and the recommendation met her key 
objective for income. 
I think its likely that other funds were considered but Ms P chose the above two. I note 
under the heading Recommended funds the application form contains the names of two 
other funds  the cautious managed fund and the adventurous fund  which I think were 
more likely than not considered. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that Ms P opted to split 
her money equally between the managed income fund and the life managed fund, because 
thats what she wanted. I note she also had the option to switch funds at any point but never 
did.  
I appreciate Ms P wasnt an experienced investor, but she wasnt without investment 
experience, therefore shes likely to have known how the investment worked and the risk 
involved. In other words, despite what the CMC says, Im satisfied that Ms P had meaningful 
investment experience and therefore was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware of 
the general risks involved with the bond. The key policy documentation provided also made 
reasonably clear the nature and operation of the bond. In any case, theres nothing to 
suggest that she couldnt take a balanced risk approach or even higher if thats what she 
wanted to do. 
I should make clear that Im not specifically looking at whether Ms P was a balanced risk 
investor, or whether the recommendations were balanced risk. Im considering if the 
recommendations were generally suitable for her. Notwithstanding the points made by the 
CMC about the funds, I agree with the investigator that its not for us to risk rate the funds. In 
this instance the funds were classed as presenting a balanced risk, Ive no reason, given the 
business explanation, to think this was incorrect.
I note that Ms P might be unhappy with the returns but Ive seen no evidence to suggest that 
she was given any guarantees about the level of return or income  the illustrated returns 
were only projections. Just because she didnt receive a better return doesnt mean the 
recommendation was unsuitable. I note the investigator says that Ms P remained invested 
through some global financial crises thats likely to have had an impact on her level of 
returns. 
On balance, the evidence suggests that Ms P knew what she wanted and made an informed 
decision under the watchful eye of her father who had gifted her the money to invest so that 
she could use the income to pay for life cover. I note it was recorded Gift from father to fund 
existing lifestyle plus plan. Whether or not the CMC thinks this was a poor reason to 
invest £10,000 is immaterial if thats what Ms P (and her father) wanted to do.
If any information recorded on the fact find was incorrect  and Ms P disagreed with her 
attitude to risk or investment experience  she ought reasonably to have raised it with the 
adviser at the time, and not signed the relevant forms confirming the information was correct. 
Im mindful that an adviser can only advise based on the information provided, so if Ms P 
had concerns about investing for a medium term when she was planning to purchase a 
property, she ought reasonably to have made this clear at the time. But the fact that she 
didnt raise this suggests it wasnt an issue. 
Im also aware that even if, for whatever reason, Ms P wasnt comfortable raising an issue at 
the time  although Ive seen no evidence that she was  she still had the option to change 
her mind during the cooling off period.In my opinion even though the bond was for a medium-term, Ms P was relatively young and 
could commit for that period of time. Despite it being recorded that she wanted to buy a 
property or extend her mortgage in the next year or two, there was no suggestion that shed 
need access to the funds, and no issue was raised by her or her father. 
I also note Ms P answered 1 or 2 years time to a number of other questions including 
protecting her income and regular savings  under the future interest box  which would 
suggest that her answer in relation to her future plan to buy a property was probably generic.    
I note Ms P was a basic rate tax payer and was happy to receive an income which met her 
objective. It could be argued that her plan to buy a property was aspirational and because 
she was living at home with her parents  having moved from a flat  she was unlikely to be 
left homeless if she didnt.   
I also note Zurich said:
I do appreciate that Miss P (name anonymised) may have been considering purchasing a 
property in the future However, the investment into the bond was separate from this and the 
bond remains in place to date so there is no indication the money was to be used in 
conjunction with property purchase.
The CMC queried where else were the funds meant to come from, but I dont think thats a 
question I need to answer. The fact that she has kept the investment for over 22 years (and 
still has it) doesnt in this instance suggest that she had an issue with the term of the bond, 
its level of risk/her risk rating or that shed planned to ever use the funds to purchase a 
property. I also note she had the opportunity to switch funds but never did. 
I appreciate Ms P will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going to ask Zurich to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give her what she wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman