DRN-3280295
The complaint
Mr W complains that MBNA Limited wont refund credit card payments he was tricked into 
making towards a fictitious investment.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here.
Mr W says he fell victim to an investment scam in early 2019. Relevant to this complaint are 
three payments totalling just over £5,100 made using his MBNA Mastercard credit card. The 
payments were made to a cryptocurrency exchange, who Ill refer to as J. Mr W believed he 
was dealing with an investment firm N who were going to help him invest his money. Ns 
representative persuaded Mr W that N was a genuine broker, the investment opportunity 
was legitimate and that hed be making a good return.
 
Mr W realised hed likely fallen victim to a scam when he wasnt able to withdraw his funds; 
the representative ceased communication; and his trading account balance reduced from 
thousands of euros to cents. 
Mr W contacted MBNA. He asked that it reverse or refund the payments taken by J as N 
was operating a scam. Mr W shared with MBNA some negative Trustpilot reviews about 
both N and J. He also shared that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA); other regulators 
worldwide; as well as consumer protection bureaus had issued warnings about N. He was 
also unhappy that MBNA failed to intervene and prevent his loss.    
MBNA denies liability for what happened, saying that Mr W made authorised payments to a 
legitimate merchant using the Mastercard credit card it had issued to him. Accordingly, there 
were no grounds for a chargeback claim under the Mastercard scheme; and nor was the it 
liable to him under either section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 or any other grounds.
Unhappy with its response Mr W referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
Investigators considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. In 
summary she didnt think MBNA had acted unfairly when concluding Mr W didnt have a 
valid chargeback or section 75 claim. She also wasnt persuaded that the payments to J 
were sufficiently unusual that MBNA should have been concerned enough to intervene. 
Mr W disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr W but, having done so, I wont be asking 
MBNA to do anything further. Ive explained my reasons below. 
Firstly, in his submissions, Mr W says:
- he was tricked into making payments to J; 
- he was unaware at the time he authorised the payments that the broker he was 
dealing with was a scammer; 
- the payments were made under false pretences and through means of coercion; and 
- his money was never invested, traded, or used to purchase shares as promised. 
I fully appreciate Mr W did not intend for the money to go to scammers and he hasnt 
received the service he was expecting from N, however, under the relevant regulations, that 
being the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) it still remains that the payments are 
considered authorised because they were made by Mr W using the legitimate security 
credentials provided to him by MBNA. Therefore, he is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance. To be clear, simply because Mr W has been the victim of a sophisticated scam 
doesnt entitle him to a refund. And where (like here) authorised payments have been made 
using a credit token (MBNA credit card) the possible avenues for recovery through the card 
issuer is generally limited to a chargeback or section 75 claim and/or where it can be fairly 
and reasonably concluded that the card issuer has failed to prevent the loss or recover the 
money.   
Chargeback 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme. There is no right to a chargeback. It is for the regulated 
card issuer (here MBNA) to decide if it has a basis upon which it can raise a chargeback 
claim. MBNA are bound by the card scheme providers rules which in this case is 
Mastercard. It is Mastercard  not MBNA, who will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between 
the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. 
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on 
which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess 
Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated 
card issuer (i.e. MBNA) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to 
present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder.
I think it would be helpful to explain that there is limited protection under the Mastercard 
scheme rules if a cardholder authorised and engaged in a transaction with the intent to 
participate in gambling, investment or similar services. Our service has clarified this with 
Mastercard directly. It explained that, issuers have no chargeback rights related to the use of 
these chips or value, unspent chips, or withdrawal of such value, or on any winnings, gains 
or losses resulting from the use of such chips or value. In short, Mastercard consider the 
purpose of the Mastercard transaction to load funds into the gambling or investment account 
and not what activities are subsequently done with the funds.
The only chargeback route available in such circumstances is limited to if the merchant does 
not make available on its platform funds transferred to it. But I agree with what our 
Investigator has said that this was not the nature of Mr Ws claim. His claim is that N is 
operating fraudulently and wouldnt allow him to withdraw his funds. I appreciate Mr W says 
the trading platform was not real, it was a simulation and his money has never been credited 
to the platform. Im sympathetic to his situation but ultimately Mr W is alleging that N were 
operating a scam. And this isnt something that the Mastercard chargeback scheme provides 
a dispute resolution process for. Notwithstanding Mr Ws claim that hes been scammed by N, the fact remains that the three 
Mastercard payments were made by him to J and not to N. I understand Mr W says Ns 
representative assisted him in making the payments, he was under the impression he was 
paying N to fund his trading account.  I also appreciate Mr W has made submissions, which 
he feels evidences that J were not legitimate. Ive carefully considered what Mr W has 
provided but Ive seen no evidence that persuades me that J were not a genuine 
cryptocurrency exchange. Whilst I recognise Mr W says he was tricked into making the 
payment to J. As far as I can see J did not defraud him nor steal his money; they did not 
pass it onto a third party without his consent; nor put obstacles in the way of his withdrawing 
any funds. It seems to me that J simply did what was asked of it: in return for Mr Ws 
Mastercard payments, it exchanged and remitted an equivalent amount in bitcoin to the 
external wallet address that it had been provided with. 
Additionally, by the time Mr W contacted MBNA, he was outside the required time limits (120 
days) for MBNA to have attempted chargeback claims.
So, for the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded that MBNA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in connection with any rights or responsibilities under the Mastercard 
chargeback scheme, so I cannot uphold this complaint on that ground.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Section 75 gives a debtor the right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract and/or 
misrepresentation against a creditor as he would have against the supplier of goods or 
services. For a section 75 claim to apply there are a number of criteria that need to be met, 
one of which is a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement between the parties.
Mr Ws claim is that N didnt provide him with the services it had agreed to. So for the 
purposes of the DCS agreement N is the supplier. However, the payments Mr W disputes 
were not made to N  they were made to J. So For Mr Ws claim to be covered under the 
joint liability provision of section 75 I would need to see evidence that would satisfy me that J 
were a party to the contract between Mr W and N as there is no right under section 75 to 
pursue a like claim against a third party who was not privy to the debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship. Ive not seen any evidence linking J to the supplier  N, so it follows that Mr W 
doesnt have the required DCS agreement in place to make a section 75 claim. So I cant 
fairly say MBNA ought to have done more under section 75.
And even if I were to consider J to be the supplier, as it appears to be the case that it did 
nothing wrong, there could not reasonably be a successful like claim against MBNA (the 
creditor). 
So, as with the chargeback issue above, I can see no viable grounds under section 75 for 
upholding the complaint. 
Intervention
Mr W has argued MBNA failed to protect him from financial harm as a result of fraud and has 
referenced BSI: PAS 17271: 2017 Protecting customers from financial harm as a result of 
fraud or financial abuse  Code of practice. I agree with him that MBNA does have a duty to 
protect customers against the risk of financial loss due to fraud. So Ive thought about 
whether MBNA could have reasonably done anything more to prevent Mr Ws loss at the 
time the payments were processed. But I dont think it could have. Ill explain why.I appreciate Mr Ws strength of feeling, that MBNA had a responsibility to intervene and 
contact him before allowing these payments to be made as they were made to a 
cryptocurrency exchange and this was a new type of activity for him. Additionally, he has 
argued MBNA ought to have taken reasonable steps to forestall fraud, or at least mitigate its 
risk by using an effective risk management system and it has failed to demonstrate its ability 
to respond to questionable transactions responsibly and pre-emptively. He says MBNAs 
security systems should consider emerging new scams and have mechanisms built in that 
would identify common fraudulent practices and/or merchants. 
I dont entirely disagree with Mr W. I do think due to the rise in cryptocurrency scams in 
recent years credit card providers, such as MBNA should have mechanisms in place to 
detect and prevent this type of fraud. But its not always the case that a payment made to a 
cryptocurrency exchange is necessarily at risk of fraud. Whilst I acknowledge innocent 
victims are tricked into utilising these firms services by a scammer. They are likewise 
utilised for legitimate transactions. So credit card providers do have to strike a fine balance 
between convenience for their customers and prevention of fraudulent activity. 
Having considered everything carefully, in this specific case I dont think the payments in 
question would have stood out to MBNA as being suspicious and/or sufficiently unusual 
where Id have expected it to intervene. I say this because:
 
- The mere fact that Mr W was making a payment to a cryptocurrency exchange 
wouldnt justify MBNA making further enquiries before allowing these payments to be 
made. 
- Ive not seen any credible adverse data about J or evidence to support that it was 
anything other than a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange firm. So it follows that I 
dont think MBNA ought reasonably to have had triggers in place at the time about J.  
- I also dont think MBNA couldve reasonably known that the payments debiting 
Mr Ws account were to be passed onto N. 
- Of course, in hindsight, now knowing Mr W has likely lost money as a result of a 
scam its easy to make the argument that MBNA ought to have done more. But I 
think it would be too high a burden to expect a credit card provider to become 
suspicious of fraud or financial crime just on the basis of three credit card payments 
to a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange of £859.47, £2,568.18 and £1,734.71, which 
were also a few weeks apart.
Ultimately, Mr W paid a legitimate merchant and in return bitcoins were sent to the wallet of 
his choice (albeit through manipulation by Ns representative). I recognise that some 
financial firms may now choose not to allow such transactions, particularly using borrowed 
moneysuch as credit cardsbecause of the commercial risks involved. But that is their 
own commercial decision. Its not something financial firms were required to do, and that 
MBNA failed to do. The fact remains that purchasing cryptocurrency was and is not an illegal 
activity. I therefore conclude for the reasons above that I cant fairly say that in these specific 
circumstances MBNA acted unreasonably by not intervening to ask further questions about 
the transactions or to give Mr W a scam warning.
My final decision
Despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ws loss my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman