DRN-4322192
The complaint
Mrs T, on behalf of the Estate of Mr T, has complained about how Peoples Administration 
Services Limited, trading as B&CE (B&CE), handled her late husbands life assurance 
which she says caused her stress, anxiety, and uncertainty. She said that B&CE didnt 
question the lack of life assurance cover even though Mr T was an employee of the policy 
holder. 
In my decision I will sometimes refer to the late Mr T as Mr T. I dont mean any discourtesy 
by this. 
What happened
Mr T died on 4 February 2021. Mr T was employed at the time of his death but because of 
an error, Mr T wasnt covered by his employers life cover when he died. 
Mrs T experienced delays in getting the lack of cover issue resolved. Mrs T told us that when 
Mr T died, she had little or no income and was financially vulnerable during this time. She 
said she made financial decisions she wouldnt otherwise have made if she had been aware 
of the true position. 
The issue about the life cover was later resolved and B&CE paid the life cover claim of 
£40,000 to Mrs T on 2 June 2021. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with how her late husbands affairs had been dealt with and raised a 
complaint with B&CE in October 2021. B&CE responded to Mrs T on 12 November 2021. It 
said;
Mr Ts employee life cover was only active until August 2020 as the premiums had 
been missed after that. B&CE recognised an error had been made and in June 2021 
it agreed to honour the life cover claim. 
Mrs T had wanted details of the correspondence between B&CE and Mr Ts 
employer but was advised it couldnt provide this for data protection reasons.
B&CE didnt uphold the complaint as it had done everything it could to assist Mrs T 
with the concerns she raised. 
B&CE also carried out a further internal review about what had happened and provided a 
response to Mrs Ts queries on 27 May 2022. It offered Mrs T £100 in recognition of the poor 
customer service she had received. 
B&CE wrote to Mrs T again on 9 August 2022 but concluded that it didnt uphold her 
complaint and it had honoured the claim. But it accepted Mrs T had received poor customer 
service and offered a payment of £250 because of this. 
Mrs T wasnt satisfied with the outcome and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. She said she was unhappy that B&CE didnt question the non-payment of 
premiums for Mr Ts life policy, how it had handled the estates affairs, including the claim on 
the life policy, and that it wouldnt provide copies of correspondence between it and Mr Ts 
employer. 
Our investigator who considered the complaint didnt think B&CE needed to do anything 
more. He said;
B&CE werent obliged to notify Mr T that the premiums for the life policy had lapsed. 
That relationship was with Mr Ts employer  as the policy holder  and the insurer  
B&CE. This had been explained to Mrs T in B&CEs responses to her complaint.
Mrs T had been told by B&CE on 15 March 2021 that it wasnt aware of any claims 
but because of the pandemic, turnaround times had been extended. A life policy 
claim wasnt discussed, and Mrs T was referred to Mr Ts employer as it was the 
policyholder.
He accepted that it was frustrating for Mrs T not being told the life policy wasnt active 
until 22 April 2021 and he took account of this when assessing whether the offer 
being made was fair.
Mr Ts employer communicated with B&CE on 10 May and by 20 May Mr Ts 
employer acknowledged there had been an error and asked that B&CE pay the claim 
which it did two weeks later.
He wouldnt have expected B&CE to pay out when a policy was inactive so he 
couldnt say the benefit should have been paid at that point as B&CE wasnt aware of 
the error until 20 May when Mr Ts employer made this clear. The claim was paid two 
weeks later. 
The rules of this service meant that we could only award a distress and 
inconvenience payment to the estate, not to its representative, and the investigator 
didnt recommend an award for financial loss as the claim was paid within a 
reasonable time. 
B&CE had acknowledged it could have provided clearer information to Mrs T and that 
she had been frustrated by the multiple times she had had to make contact, but he 
thought the current offer of £350 was fair. 
Mrs T wasnt happy with the outcome and said that her complaint had been misunderstood. 
She asked for copies of some correspondence between B&CE and Mr Ts employer.
The investigator made Mrs T aware of the terms and conditions that applied to the life cover 
which confirmed for a death in service benefit to be paid the relevant contributions would 
have had to have been paid. Claims would not be settled unless contributions were up to 
date.
Mrs T asked that her complaint be considered by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and broadly for the same 
reasons. I appreciate that Mrs T will be disappointed in my decision, but Ill explain how Ive 
reached. Id also like to explain that we are an informal dispute resolution service set up as a free (to 
consumers) alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint, I have focused on what I 
consider to be the central issues that are relevant to the outcome of the complaint, rather 
than commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy, rather it reflects 
the informal nature of our service and my remit.
And I should make clear that I will only be considering the actions of B&CE regarding the life 
claim in my decision. I wont be looking at any actions of Mr Ts employer or any of the other 
benefits the late Mr T was due from B&CE. My decision is limited to the actions of B&CE in 
relation to the life cover complaint.
Ive outlined a timeline of events that occurred after the death of Mr T on 4 February 2021;
25.02.21  B&CE received notification of the death of Mr T.     
15.03.21  Mrs T called B&CE about Mr Ts pension, but this is the first time it was 
made aware of Mr Ts death and records it. It became clear later that because of 
delays caused by the pandemic B&CEs administration team hadnt been able to 
action the notification of Mr Ts death before Mrs Ts call. 
16.03.21  A claim form was sent to Mrs T for completion.  
22.03.21  Mrs T called B&CE as she had just received the form and sought 
guidance about its completion. Mrs T returned the form, and it was received the 
following day.
08.04.21  Mrs T called B&CE to ask about the benefits she would receive, and she 
was informed about the pension but was advised that for any life cover questions she 
should speak with Mr Ts employer.
19.04.21  Mrs T called B&CE, but it couldnt confirm final amounts due to her as the 
(pension) claim was still being processed. Its clear that Mrs T was unsure what she 
was claiming for from B&CE.
22.04.21  Mrs T called B&CE for an update. She was told there was a backlog, but 
her case was marked as urgent. Mrs T says she would chase somewhere else if the 
workplace insurance wasnt with B&CE and was advised that if it was an employee-
based scheme, she should contact Mr Ts employer. Mrs T says she was waiting to 
hear from them. 
22.04.21  B&CE wrote to Mrs T asking about any dependents of Mr T and 
confirmed that no employee life cover benefits were payable.
27.04.21  B&CE received confirmation from Mrs T that there were no dependents. 
06.05.21  Mrs T called B&CE for an update and was advised of the delays.
10.05.21  Mr Ts employer emailed B&CE to say Mrs T had been in touch, but she 
hadnt received any correspondence. 
18.05.21  Mrs T called B&CE. The agent confirmed that Mr T wasnt covered by any 
employer life insurance when he died. Mrs T was informed that it would investigate 
this as the premiums hadnt been paid since August 2020 and the agent thought this 
was incorrect.  Mrs T was also advised service levels had been extended to 18 
working days because of a backlog caused by staff disruption during the pandemic. 
18.05.21  Mr Ts employer emailed B&CE to find out if the claim had been 
progressed and the relevant form had been sent to the family. 
18.05.21  B&CE responded to Mr Ts employer to say that Mrs T had been in touch 
and thought there would be life cover for her late husband. But B&CEs records showed that premiums for the life cover had stopped in August 2020.
19.05.21  B&CE called to Mrs T to confirm it was waiting to hear back from Mr Ts 
employer.
20.05.21  Mr Ts employer emailed B&CE to explain that in error the premiums 
hadnt been paid since August 2020 and asked for the life claim be paid. 
24.05.21  B&CE called Mrs T to update her and advised that its Governance Panel 
would be making the decision about payment of the claim.
28.05.21  A call took place between B&CE and Mrs T.
02.06.21  B&CEs Governance Panel met, accepted an error was made by Mr Ts 
employer but agreed to pay the claim in any event.
The above makes clear that the first B&CE was made aware of the potential of a life claim 
was when it realised that premiums hadnt been paid since August 2020 when it looked at 
the issue again on 18 May. And it was subsequently contacted by Mr Ts employer on 
Thursday 20 May 2021 which clarified the error. It contacted Mrs T on the following Monday 
to advise her that its Governance Panel would be meeting to decide on the claim. That 
meeting took place the following week and the claim was agreed. Payment of the claim was 
made to Mrs T on that day. 
So, while I appreciate that Mrs T did have to make contact with B&CE many times about her 
claims  which also included the pension  but I note she was advised on 8 April that she 
should contact Mr Ts employer about any life claim. While this must have been frustrating 
for Mrs T, but at that time B&CE wasnt aware of the error that had been caused by Mr Ts 
employer so couldnt have known of any potential claim Mrs T could have made for life 
cover. 
Mrs T has said that if B&CE had made Mr Ts employer aware of a rejected life claim at an 
earlier date, then this would have raised an enquiry which would have cleared the matter up 
sooner. But this wasnt a straightforward claim that was rejected. There wasnt any cover in 
place for a claim to made against. The claim itself wasnt actually made until Mrs T had 
approached her late husbands employer in May 2021 about a life claim and it was at that 
point Mr Ts employer established that an error had been made and requested that the claim 
be paid by B&CE. 
Mrs T has referred to the phone conversation she had with B&CE on 22 March 2021. During 
the call she was advised by B&CE to complete and return the form Mrs T had just received 
and that for the employer section it would send that onto Mr Ts employer for completion. 
Mrs T has said this was never done.
But that form related to Mr Ts pension as referred to during the phone conversation held on 
15 February when it was confirmed with Mrs T that B&CE would be sending out the form for 
Mrs T to claim on the pension. It didnt relate to any life assurance cover or claim.
And Mrs T has also referred to other correspondence and sent me copies including 
messages. But prior to the confirmed from Mr Ts employer on 20 May 2021 B&CE wouldnt 
have known that an error had been made when the premiums werent paid from August 
2020. So, while Im aware there was correspondence and contact between B&CE and Mr Ts 
employer after Mr Ts death that would have only been treated in relation to the pension as 
no-one was aware of the error in the premiums not being paid. 
Clearly this was an unfortunate series of events and Mrs T wasnt clear what she was 
claiming for, but B&CE didnt have the information any earlier than 18 May that might have 
made it clearer there was a life cover issue and that the premiums had lapsed. It would have been helpful if B&CE had noticed this potential error sooner but according to B&CEs records 
no life cover was in place for Mr T at the time of his death  so it couldnt have given Mrs T 
any guidance about that  but that wasnt B&CEs error. However, Im satisfied that B&CE 
acted as it should have done by directing Mrs T to Mr Ts employer as soon as Mrs T sought 
information about that. 
It wasnt for B&CE to make Mr Ts employer aware that the premiums had stopped being 
paid in August 2020. Thats not its role. Employees can change all the time and it wasnt for 
B&CE to challenge Mr Ts employer about that non-payment or know that an error had been 
made when the premium wasnt paid from August 2020 onwards. So, I dont find B&CE 
responsible for this, so it doesnt have a case to answer or look to put anything right. I dont 
uphold this complaint point. 
Mrs T has said the incorrect employers name (Mr Ts employer was splitting the divisions of 
its business) was referred to on the claim form and says that should have been questioned 
by B&CE. But I cant find any evidence to suggest that even if an error had been made about 
the employers name  and I dont make any finding on that  it would have had any impact 
on the situation or that the error would have been discovered any sooner.
Mrs T has complained that B&CE wont provide her with all of the correspondence it had with 
Mr Ts employer because of data protection reasons. I know the investigator provided Mrs T 
with additional copies of correspondence, but I am not in the position to ask B&CE to provide 
any further correspondence that Mrs T considers she hasnt had access to if B&CE 
concluded it cant do so for data protection reasons. But with regard to the complaint itself, 
Id like to reassure Mrs T that I am satisfied I have sufficient information  including copies of 
correspondence  in order for to make a fair and reasonable decision about the complaint as 
it has been presented to me. 
This service cant make awards for any distress and inconvenience that has been caused 
when a complaint is brought by the executor of an estate  as in this case  as Mrs T doesnt 
have the required relationship with B&CE. However, B&CE has said that while Mrs Ts claim 
didnt take an excessive amount of time and it didnt uphold that element of her complaint, it 
did accept there were service failings and has offered Mrs T a total of £350 because of that 
which doesnt seem unreasonable. So, it is now for Mrs T to decide whether to accept that 
offer. 
Overall, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Its clear from the file, and I fully appreciate, that 
Mrs T has been through a really difficult time. Her husband had very recently died, and she 
was having to deal with her late husbands estate during which time she was financially 
vulnerable. And its also clear Mrs T was very frustrated in having to verify any employee life 
cover her late husband may have had. 
Id like to express my sympathy for Mrs T and Im very sorry to hear of the position she was 
in at such a difficult time for her. And Id like to assure Mrs T that I have fully reviewed the file 
and all of her submissions  even if I havent commented on everything  and am satisfied 
she has been treated fairly. 
For the reasons given, I dont find that B&CE was unfair or unreasonable in its dealings with 
Mrs T. And I also note that B&CEs decision to pay out on the policy  for which premiums 
hadnt been paid  was done because it was correct and ethical even though it wasnt 
under any obligation to do so.  
Mrs T now needs to decide whether she accepts the offer of £350 that has already been 
made by B&CE.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman