DRN-4018247
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs and Mr C hold with Santander UK Plc. They say that 
the annual mortgage statements issued since 2008 have not been compliant with the 
requirements of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). As a result, they believe Santander is 
prohibited from charging interest during the period of non-compliance. Both borrowers have 
joined the complaint, but all our dealings have been with Mr C.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision dated 6 March 2023, I set out my provisional conclusions on 
this complaint. The following is an extract from the provisional decision.
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mrs and Mr C and 
Santander. So I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information 
that might result in Mrs and Mr C being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the 
outcome of the complaint. 
Mrs and Mrs C made a subject access request (SAR) of Santander under the 
General Data Protection Regulation. Theyve raised a separate complaint about how 
that was handled by Santander and I understand a fellow ombudsman is dealing with 
that. Following the SAR, Mrs and Mr C brought this complaint. 
In a final response of 26 July 2022, Santander denied the existence of any 
shortcoming in the form and content of its mortgage statements. Our investigator 
agreed with Santander, and so Mrs and Mr C have asked for the case to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, as is their right.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial 
businesses, and we dont police their internal processes or how they operate 
generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with 
individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont 
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without 
interference from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of 
the ombudsman service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Mrs and Mr Cs mortgage began in 1989, before residential mortgages were subject 
to any form of regulation. Mortgage regulation was introduced in 2004, but not via the 
CCA. Rather, when the FCA introduced mortgage regulation, it did so via the 
Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB).
Mrs and Mr C believe their mortgage statements are missing key information, but by 
invoking the requirements of the CCA theyre applying the wrong test. The mortgage 
statements theyve received from Santander since 2008 meet the requirements set 
out in MCOB, in the form prescribed by the regulator, and so the issue of 
non-compliance with the CCA doesnt arise.
I cant be sure, but from other comments theyve made, it seems Mrs and Mr C may 
think their mortgage account has been wrongly calculated. If they do think that, then 
thats a separate complaint from the one Im deciding here, which is solely about 
whether the form and content of the statements meets regulatory requirements (and 
Ive concluded they do).
If Mrs and Mr C do think there are accounting mistakes to their detriment (and I 
stress its not entirely clear if they do or not) then theyd need to raise a new 
complaint with Santander with evidence of the mistakes they think have occurred. 
Typically, such evidence might be an independent audit by a suitably-qualified third 
party instructed and paid for by Mrs and Mr C, which Santander could then consider 
and respond to. If Mrs and Mr C werent happy with any such response, then they 
could refer that complaint to us.
I gave the parties two weeks two weeks to reply to the provisional decision; both have done 
so already. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered afresh everything that both parties have said and provided, including Mr Cs 
most recent emails to the investigator. Having so, I wont be departing from my provisional 
conclusions. However, I will address some of Mr Cs further comments.
First of all, hes right to say that the FCA didnt exist in 2004, when mortgage regulation was 
introduced via MCOB. This was carried out by the FCAs predecessor, the Financial 
Services Authority. My apologies for the error, however, it changes nothing.
Credit agreements that are regulated under the CCA have a clear narrative on the first page 
saying just that. Mrs and Mr Cs original mortgage offer from 1988 contains no such 
narrative, simply because it wasnt ever a regulated agreement under the CCA. The fact that 
the starting balance of the mortgage in 1989 was below £15,000 is not a factor in whether it 
was regulated by the CCA. 
First charge mortgages are not regarded as consumer credit for the purposes of the CCA, 
and were never included in its scope. So the question of exemption doesnt arise; an 
agreement cant be exempt from something it was never covered by in the first place. 
For the avoidance of doubt, regulation of first charge mortgages, like the mortgage 
Mrs and Mr C have, began in 2004 under MCOB, and applied retrospectively to mortgages 
already in existence. Nothing Ive seen in the evidence from either party gives me any 
reason to find that Mrs and Mr Cs mortgage statements arent MCOB-compliant.Mr C says I am tasked with looking at what has gone wrong with my statements since 
2008. Ive already explained what Mrs and Mr C can do if they think something has gone 
wrong arithmetically. My remit here is decide if anything regulatory has gone wrong with the 
statements, and for all the reasons Ive set out, the answer is nothing. For that reason, it 
would not be fair or reasonable to say Santander cannot charge interest in accordance with 
the terms of the mortgage contract. 
I appreciate that Mr C might not agree; if he and Mrs C decide not to accept my final 
decision, they will be free to pursue their claim against Santander in court, should they wish 
to do so. I would suggest they take advice from a solicitor before pursuing any legal action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 April 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman