DRN-1951325
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A has unfairly declined their claim made under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W had booked fights in June 2019 for a holiday in September 2019. They 
booked their accommodation separately. The airline they had booked their flights through 
ran into problems and just a few days before they were due to travel, ceased trading. 
Mr and Mrs W had already paid for their accommodation and other amenities and so rather 
than cancelling their holiday, they booked flights with a different airline at a higher cost. They 
claimed a refund for the cancelled flights through their credit card provider but submitted a 
claim to Mapfre for the difference between the original cost and the higher cost of their 
replacement flights. 
Mapfre initially told them they couldnt claim for the costs of the original flights as they had 
submitted a claim through their credit card company. After further clarifying their claim,       
Mr and Mrs W were told there wasnt any cover provided for by the policy for the difference 
in flights costs. Not happy with that they complained about the claim outcome and the 
service they had received. Mapfre stood by its decision to decline the claim but agreed it had 
provided poor service and so offered Mr and Mrs W £100 compensation. 
Our investigator concluded the claim had been declined fairly; there wasnt any cover 
provided by the policy for the event Mr and Mrs W were claiming for. She also found the 
£100 compensation for poor service to be fair. 
Mr and Mrs W have asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, they 
remain of the view they had bought maximum protection and so should be covered under 
the policy. They argue that although the policy doesnt say it covers additional flight costs, it 
doesnt say it doesnt either. They also refer to the call they had when they were told they 
couldnt book new flights; had they booked when they first heard of the airline troubles, 
flights would have cost less. They would also like to know if they would have been covered 
had they cancelled their holiday instead of replacing their flights. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I empathise with the situation in which Mr and Mrs W found themselves. Through no fault of 
their own, they were in a difficult situation because the airline they had booked their flights 
with ceased trading just a matter of days before their holiday. But I can only uphold their 
complaint if I find that Mapfre has unfairly or unreasonably declined their claim. 
The starting position with any claim is the contract between the parties  the terms and 
conditions of the travel insurance. Both the policy schedule and the policy document form 
those terms and conditions. 
The policy shows Mr and Mrs W took out the Premier Plus level of cover. And in addition 
they paid for excess waiver and travel disruption cover. The only area of the Premier Plus 
cover that might have been applicable to Mr and Mrs W was section O  Scheduled Airline 
Failure. This section says:
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Policy Schedule for:
1. Irrecoverable sums paid in advance in the event of insolvency of the scheduled 
airline provider not forming part of a package holiday arrangement by a tour 
operator prior to departure; or
2. In the event of insolvency of the scheduled airline after Your departure:
a. Additional pro rata costs incurred by You in placing that part of the flight 
arrangements to a similar standard to that originally booked; or
b. If Curtailment of the holiday is unavoidable the cost of return flights to the 
United Kingdom to a similar standard to that originally booked. 
This section doesnt apply to Mr and Mrs W, as they werent claiming for the original failed 
flights; and in any event were recouping their outlay for those via their credit card company. 
So I turn to the travel disruption cover they paid an additional premium for. 
I understand and accept they took out this additional cover because they were told through a 
website that it would provide maximum protection. But that doesnt mean the insurance 
covers them for every eventuality. Indeed, almost all travel insurance policies Ive seen only 
cover certain events and even then are subject to exclusions; if a particular event isnt listed 
it means it isnt covered by the policy.
The policy document sets out that the travel disruption option extends cover for events 
already covered by the policy; cancellation or curtailment, delayed departure or holiday 
abandonment, missed departure or unused or additional accommodation costs. I have 
looked at the cancellation section and this is for unused travel or accommodation costs or if 
the trip was curtailed before completion.  It doesnt provide cover for additional costs for 
replacement flights and none of the other sections are applicable. Im therefore not 
persuaded the costs Mr and Mrs W are claiming for are covered under travel disruption.
During Mapfres consideration of the claim, Mr and Mrs W argued they were claiming under 
section T  Flight Cancellation.  The policy schedule doesnt show this additional cover as 
something they opted and paid an additional premium for, and so they cant bring a claim 
under section T. But for the sake of completeness, I dont think this section would have 
applied to their claim because it only covers accommodation costs and additional travel 
expenses if an airline cancelled a flight, and the replacement flight offered by the airline was 
not within 24 hours of the original departure time. That wasnt the situation in which Mr and 
Mrs W found themselves. 
I have listened to the call Mrs W had when the news broke about the financial troubles of the 
airline and the possibility of it ceasing trading. Although she does ask about replacement 
flights, she wasnt told she couldnt book new flights, rather she was told advice about the 
situation couldnt be provided, as they were still waiting to hear back from the underwriters. 
Im not persuaded there was anything said during that call which impacts my consideration 
of whether the claim has been declined fairly. 
Mr and Mrs W would also like to know if their claim would have been covered had they 
decided to cancel their holiday instead of book new flights. My role is to consider the 
complaint before me and decide a fair resolution to it. It isnt my role to consider a 
hypothetical situation or the outcome to a possible claim that was never made. So I hope Mr 
and Mrs W will understand why I wont be commenting on that. Mapfre agreed the service it had provided to Mr and Mrs W was poor; it had recorded the 
claim incorrectly and it had to be contacted several times by Mr and Mrs W for the correct 
claim to be considered and for their complaint to be investigated. I accept this was frustrating 
for them. I find £100 to be fair compensation for the inconvenience that caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional 
De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A has fairly resolved this complaint. I require it to pay Mr and 
Mrs W £100 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman