DRN-1212477
 
The complaint
Mr A complains Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis sold him payment protection insurance 
(PPI) in connection with his credit card account.
What happened
Mr A applied for a credit card over the internet in 2000. At the same time he took out a PPI 
policy to cover his credit card repayments. 
The policy cost £0.59 per £100 of the balance on Mr As credit card. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mr 
A was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr As complaint about the sale of PPI. Mr A disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr As complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A says he was given a leaflet to take the policy but Barclays internal records show the 
policy  was applied for online when Mr A applied for a credit card. Barclays have given us a 
copy of the screen shots of the application form Mr A wouldve seen and completed when he 
applied for his credit card.
I can see that theres a separate section on the application form that deals with PPI. 
Within this section it briefly explains what the cost of PPI is along with what it protects 
against.
Directly under this it gives the customer the option to either select:
 
Yes, I would like to protect my repayments; or
 
No, I do not wish to protect my repayment 
 Barclays say when Mr A selected Yes additional information would have appeared including 
the full policy terms and conditions and at this point he would have still been able to change 
his mind and change his decision to No. If he did not change his decision and carried on 
with the application PPI would be added to his account.  
So I think Mr A had PPI because he selected to take it on the application form. If Mr A didnt 
want to take out PPI he couldve selected not to take the cover. So I think Mr A wouldve 
understood he had a choice in taking out the PPI and chose to take it because he wanted 
the cover.
Because the policy was taken over the internet I dont think Barclays recommended the PPI 
to Mr A so it didnt have to check if it was right for him.
But it did have to make sure Mr A got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover.
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A or 
refund any interest and charges applied to his credit card that may have been incurred 
because of those premiums.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because: 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr A about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr A, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr A.
 
 
 
 
 
  
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman