DRN-3299649
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC is holding him responsible for payments and 
direct debit refund requests which he says he didnt make or allow anyone else to make.
What happened
Mr M has disputed ten payments from his account made between 18 and 23 October 2020 
totalling £15,726. These payments were made to electronic money providers where the 
funds were later used to purchase cryptocurrency.
These payments were partially funded by a payment into Mr Ms account on 20 October 
2020  this was from one of the aforementioned electronic money providers for £5,417. Mr M 
says he was not expecting this credit. The payments were also funded by payments returned 
to his account following successful requests for a refund under the direct debit guarantee 
scheme totalling £8,489.65. Mr M says he didnt make these requests.
Barclays declined Mr Ms claim, it said the mobile banking application on his device was 
used for eight of the ten payments disputed. A new device was also set up via speedy 
registration using Mr Ms online banking and mobile phone number. Further, the requests for 
direct debit refunds were made via a secure online chat with Barclays that was accessed 
through Mr Ms online banking. Barclays says no third-party compromise of the secure 
information needed to take these steps could be established and so it concluded Mr M was 
involved. 
Mr M says he hasnt shared any secure information or received any suspicious calls. Hes 
also said he doesnt use online banking or own the brand of phone that was registered to his 
account on 19 October 2020. Mr M says he realised something was wrong when he checked 
his balance after being paid. He now owes money to the businesses where the direct debit 
refund requests were raised  he wants this money returned to those businesses and a 
refund of the payments he didnt make.
When Mr Ms complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold his complaint. They 
concluded Barclays had declined Mr Ms claim fairly in light of the evidence around how the 
direct debit refund requests and payments were made.
Mr M didnt agree. He said one of the accounts where money was taken back from was a 
joint mortgage account, but neither of them gave permission. He also said he hadnt been 
scammed and wasnt involved at all. 
Mr M later raised that he thinks Barclays should have flagged the activity as suspicious and 
verified the payments with him. He said hackers can change peoples IP addresses. Mr M 
added that the information shared in the online chat (when the direct debit refund requests 
were made) was incorrect  for example he doesnt have a work number or take emergency 
calls.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for similar reasons to the investigator.
In relation to the direct debit refunds, Barclays has provided a copy of the chat in which Mr M 
(or someone purporting to be him) requested refunds. These reference specific direct debits 
and the dates payments were incorrectly taken from Mr M. Under the direct debit scheme, 
banks such as Barclays guarantee to provide a refund where theres an error with a 
payment. 
Mr M says one of these beneficiary accounts was his joint mortgage account and neither 
account holder was asked to give permission. For clarity, Im only considering whether 
Barclays has acted fairly here, rather than his mortgage provider. Barclays only needed 
Mr Ms instruction to request a refund as the direct debit came from his sole account. I think 
it was reasonable for Barclays to believe the instruction was coming from Mr M as the chat 
was accessed via Mr Ms online banking and so whoever requested these would have used 
Mr Ms secure information needed to log into his online banking. None of the information 
Mr M says was untrue about his job or work number would have been known to Barclays 
staff  information such as his email address and mobile number remained unchanged. I 
understand Mr M wants the funds returned to the payees, but they are no longer in his 
account to return.
Its more likely than not that these requests are linked to the disputed payments from Mr Ms 
account given the timing here. And the way they were utilised suggests the incoming 
payments were expected. As this is where the loss occurred, Ill focus on the disputed 
payments in the remainder of my decision.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Mr M is responsible for any payment(s) that he has authorised (either by making them 
himself or allowing someone else to) and he isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
So, the key question here is whether Barclays has acted fairly in concluding that Mr M did 
authorise the disputed payments. 
For a payment to be authorised, Barclays must show that it was authenticated correctly and 
why it thinks Mr M consented to it. Here Barclays has provided audit information to show the 
payments were made through Mr Ms mobile banking. To make the payments Mr Ms secure 
passcode was used to access his mobile banking application. Mr Ms long card number and 
CVV was also used to set up new payees. Theres no suggestion here that the payments 
have gone to a different account than the instructions provided. So, I think the payments 
were authenticated correctly.
The key issue is whether Mr M consented to the payments or to someone else making these 
payments on his behalf.
Mr M told Barclays that no one knew his mobile phones passcode or the passcode for his 
mobile banking application and that his card remained in his possession. Hes also 
confirmed that he wasnt scammed into either sharing his secure information or making 
these payments himself.
On balance, I think Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably in concluding Mr M consented 
to these payments for the following reasons:
The device ID used for eight of the disputed payments was linked to Mr Ms mobile number and registered to his mobile banking profile since January 2019. It had been 
used several times previously for genuine payments. 
To make the payments Mr Ms secure passcode was used to access his mobile 
banking application. 
This means whoever made these payments had access to Mr Ms phone and knew 
his secure passcode. They would have needed to access his phone several times 
and Mr M has confirmed he had his phone and no one else knew his passcode.
Mr M has confirmed he made a genuine payment of £15 on 21 October 2020. This 
payment was made from the same device ID and IP address as many of the disputed 
payments. At this point several of the disputed payments had already taken place.
A new device was added on 19 October 2020  this is the device Mr M says he 
doesnt own. Speedy registration was requested through Mr Ms online banking to his 
genuine phone number. This online banking session was logged into using Mr Ms 
existing device. In the circumstances there would be little point for a fraudster to do 
this as whoever did this already had access to Mr Ms online banking.
To set up new payees Mr Ms long card number and CVV were also used.
In summary, there is no explanation for how someone else would have had access to this 
quantity of secure information or repeated access to Mr Ms device. The evidence indicates 
that whoever made these payments was in the same location as Mr M. 
Ive considered whether Barclays ought to have been concerned about the activity on Mr Ms 
account. However, for Barclays to provide a refund or partial refund on this basis, I would 
need to find in the circumstances that it was more likely than not Mr M didnt consent to 
these payments, or that he had been the victim of a scam. However, Mr M has confirmed he 
wasnt the victim of a scam, and on the evidence available I cant reasonably conclude that 
Mr M wasnt involved in making these payments. It would be completely speculative to 
consider what Mr M would have said had Barclays got in touch with him sooner.
For the reasons explained, I dont think Barclays has handled Mr Ms claim unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman