DRN-3561097
The complaint
Miss S complains TransUnion International UK Limited trading as TransUnion Information 
Group have merged her details on her credit file with those of her sibling.
What happened
In March 2021 Miss S checked the information TransUnion held about her following a loan 
application thatd been turned down by a bank. She found out TransUnion recorded a lot of 
information about her sibling, who lives at the same property. After receiving a copy of her 
report, she said there was no apology for the mistakes and stress theyd caused her. So, she 
complained as she said shed been penalised for years as a result of TransUnions errors.
TransUnion replied to Miss S complaint on 19 August 2021 and said sorry for the obvious 
annoyance and inconvenience this issue had caused her. They explained theyd corrected 
their database, and events of this nature are very rare. They said they receive hundreds of 
millions of personal data records each month from different sources. As there isnt one 
unique identifier, they spend a lot of time trying to get the most complete picture of a 
persons identity and credit history. TransUnion said they have a very high success rate of 
doing this, but occasionally their data gets matched incorrectly. To say sorry for the error, 
they offered to pay Miss S £50 compensation.
Unhappy with this, Miss S asked us to look into things  setting out the impact this had had 
on her for many years. One of our Investigators considered everything, and overall she felt 
£200 compensation was fairer to resolve this issue. Miss S also raised a concern about her 
credit score being identical to her siblings, but our Investigator didnt uphold this issue.
Unfortunately, TransUnion didnt reply to our Investigators outcome, but Miss S did, and 
said she didnt think £200 was enough to compensate her for the damage its caused her 
physically and mentally. So, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TransUnion recording incorrect information on Miss S credit file
TransUnion have accepted they made an error in the recording of the data, and I understand 
the credit file is now showing the correct information  so I dont need to make a finding on 
this or consider it further. 
Instead, I need to focus on what I consider is fair compensation. To do that, I need to 
consider the impact this issue has had on Miss S  which shes set out as an impact on her 
health, and ability to get lending in the past.
I dont doubt Miss S has been impacted by this  but the evidence shes provided in support 
of this issue impacting on her health is before she had realised there was a problem with her 
credit file. I can see this was mentioned by our Investigator in her outcome, and Miss S 
hasnt provided anything else for me to consider. So, I cant say the stress of the information 
being wrong is the sole cause of the health issues Miss S has outlined, but I think its fair for 
me to say they likely will have added to or exacerbated them.
Miss S has also said being turned down for credit significantly impacted her and reduced the 
options she had to pursue matters earlier in her life  such as getting a mortgage. I should 
explain at this point Id have to be satisfied the sole or main reason Miss S was turned down 
for previous lending was due to this error by TransUnion. To be satisfied that was the case, 
generally Id expect a lender to have confirmed this was the specific reason Miss S was 
turned down for that lending. I say that because I know lenders will often take into account 
many different pieces of information before deciding to lend  and I cant hold TransUnion 
responsible for another partys actions unless Ive got sufficient evidence to show they 
actually are at fault.
In support of her complaint Miss S has provided evidence of applications being turned down 
prior to the issues being resolved. None of these letters say the information held on Miss S 
credit file was the sole or main reason for the application being turned down. The letters do 
mention the CRAs  and say Miss S may want to get in touch with them to find out what 
information is held. Some of these letters dates back several years, though Miss S says she 
didnt check her credit report until 2021. So, I think I also have to draw the conclusion Miss S 
could have checked this issue earlier  which may have limited the impact it was having on 
her.
Bringing all of this together, I do think TransUnions mistake has caused Miss S distress, but 
overall I think the £200 recommended by our Investigator for this issue is fair.
Miss S credit score is identical to her siblings
Our Investigator asked Miss S if there was now anything wrong showing on her report  and 
Miss S said no. We also asked TransUnion why this might be the case. They said as far as 
theyre concerned the information is now correct, and they cant share anything about 
another partys credit file with us for data protection reasons.
In the absence of any other evidence, it appears this is simply a coincidence rather than 
anything else. So, given Miss S confirmed there wasnt anything wrong on her credit file, I 
cant require TransUnion to take any action.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require TransUnion International UK Limited trading as 
TransUnion Information Group to pay Miss S £200 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman