DRN-1564507
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Lloyds Bank PLC dealt with some payments that debited his 
account under a Continuous Payment Authority.
What happened
In May 2019 Mr S reported the loss of his Lloyds debit card. Lloyds cancelled that card and 
issued a replacement. However, three payments of £7.99 debited Mr S account in June, 
July and August 2019. These payments were requested by a company that Ill refer to as A 
in this decision.
Mr S said he didnt authorise these payments. And he understood that cancelling his card 
would prevent them from debiting his account. So he complained to Lloyds about what 
happened.
After Lloyds investigated it informed Mr S that the payments in question had debited his 
account under a Continuous Payment Authority (CPA). Lloyds told Mr S that, in setting up 
that CPA, hed given his authority for A to debit his account. And it explained it had a duty to 
make those payments when requested. Lloyds also told Mr S that cancelling a card wouldnt 
stop payments from debiting as the CPA would generally transfer over to any new cards 
issued unless it had been told to block the payment, which it hadnt. So, it didnt uphold Mr S 
complaint as it didnt think it had made an error.
Being dissatisfied with Lloyds response to his complaint Mr S referred it to our service. He 
thought Lloyds should have returned the money to him. He said he had no recollection of 
entering into a CPA and maintained that he hadnt authorised the payments that debited his 
account.
Our investigator empathised with Mr S but didnt uphold his complaint. Overall, they didnt 
think Lloyds had made an error. And they werent persuaded it had acted unreasonably or 
treated Mr S unfairly. But he disagreed and asked an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr S and Lloyds that Ive read everything that they have 
provided. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr S experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about his complaint and I can appreciate that he was caused distress and inconvenience by 
what happened. My role is to assess whether I think Lloyds made a mistake, or treated Mr S unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything he and 
Lloyds have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mr S will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope he can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
In this case both Lloyds and Mr S agree that he cancelled his card prior to A taking 
payments in June, July and August 2019. And Ive seen evidence confirming that Mr S 
cancelled his debit card in May 2019. 
Lloyds says payments to A left Mr S account under a CPA. Mr S told our service that he 
doesnt recall setting up a CPA with A. But, based on the evidence Ive seen evidence I've 
seen, I'm persuaded Mr R set up a CPA with A. Ill explain why.
Ive reviewed Mr S bank statements carefully and can see a payment to A for £7.99 
regularly debiting his account in the months prior to June 2019. Mr S says he didnt benefit 
from his CPA with A. But that isnt the issue here as whats relevant is whether Mr S set up 
the CPA in question and whether Lloyds made an error in allowing payments to debit his 
account in June, July and August 2019 - after he cancelled his debit card.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr S is challenging any payments to A that debited 
his account prior to June 2019 on the basis that they were unauthorised. It appears the CPA 
was a longstanding arrangement that Mr S had set up with A. I say this because I can see 
payments debiting his account for some time prior to June 2019. 
I appreciate that Mr S may not have appreciated that he was giving authority for A to collect 
payments under a CPA. But that isnt something for which I can fairly hold Lloyds 
responsible. This would be an issue between Mr S and A.
I can see that our investigator has explained to Mr S that a CPA is linked to the account 
against which its been set up rather than the card. I can also see that Lloyds informed him 
about that when it looked into his concerns. I think this demonstrates Lloyds was trying to 
help Mr S understand how CPAs work.
Lloyds told Mr S that, in line with its policy, any CPAs would have been transferred to a 
replacement card in the event that a card was cancelled in order to ensure payments werent 
missed. This explains why A was able to continue to collect payments even after Mr S 
cancelled his debit card. 
Mr S has raised concerns that Lloyds may have breached the rights he has under relevant 
data protection legislation in communicating with A. However, I havent seen any evidence 
that his account security has been compromised by Lloyds or that anyone accessed 
personal information about his account. In any event, I should explain that its not our role to 
decide whether a breach of data protection has taken place. Thats the role of the 
Information Commissioners Office. But, overall, I dont think Lloyds has done anything 
wrong here.  
To ensure that payments to A wouldnt continue to debit his account Mr S would have had to 
cancel his CPA with both A and Lloyds. However, I havent seen any evidence that 
he cancelled his subscription with A or instructed Lloyds not to allow any further payments to 
debit his account prior to raising his concerns with it. And Mr S hasnt told our service he 
took such action.I understand Mr S feels Lloyds should have raised a chargeback on his behalf in order to 
recover the payments that debited his account. However, Lloyds policy regarding CPAs is 
that if a customer has forgotten to cancel a CPA the payment can't be refunded or disputed.
Mr S may disagree with Lloyds' policy about this. But were not the regulator of banks and 
building societies. So, we cant tell a business to change its policy on CPAs as Mr S may like 
here. 
In any event, Im not persuaded that chargeback would have assisted Mr S here because 
the chargeback scheme is a voluntary code. So, a consumer doesnt have a right to bring a 
claim and theres no obligation on a business to do a chargeback  especially where a claim 
would appear futile. 
In the absence of Mr S providing evidence that hed cancelled the CPA with A I think it would 
have been clear to Lloyds that any chargeback claim would be unlikely to succeed. I 
therefore cant fairly criticise it for not pursuing a chargeback claim on Mr S behalf.
Mr S has told our service that hes suffered financial hardship due to payments leaving his 
account, which I sympathise with. But, as Im not persuaded Lloyds made an error here, I 
cant fairly tell it to refund the payments that are the subject of Mr S complaint.
I know this wont be the response Mr S will want. But for the reasons given, I dont think 
Lloyds made an error here. I think that it has responded to this complaint fairly and 
reasonably and I wont be asking it to do anymore. This now brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve Mr S dispute with Lloyds informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help 
Mr S any further with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman