DRN-2973639
The complaint
Mr K complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc repeatedly failed to respond to 
his questions about options for paying off his credit card. Then it suspended his account.
What happened
Mr K said that M&S sent him messages about his credit card account asking him to contact 
it. He wrote, but M&S asked him to call. Mr K said he preferred not to do that, he said it was 
difficult to call from overseas, where he currently is. And he explained to us that English isnt 
his first language. He said M&S knew this, but it didnt respond to his written 
communications. Mr K said hed increased his payments, but M&S just told him it would 
suspend his account, then did so.
Mr K said hed been affected financially and emotionally. He wanted his card reactivated, 
M&S to apologise, and pay him compensation. And he said he wanted M&S to deal with him 
in writing, as hed asked.
M&S said it had been writing to Mr K about persistent debt on his credit card since 
September 2018. It explained to him the steps its required to go through under the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) guidance, and it went through those steps. M&S eventually 
decided to suspend Mr K's credit card. It said it was due to take this step in March 2020 but 
due to Covid-19 this was delayed until October 2020.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said she couldnt see that 
Mr K had made M&S aware of the reasons he was unable to communicate by phone. So 
M&S didnt appear to have known about this until Mr K raised his complaint with our service. 
If he had told M&S about this, then M&S has said it would have explored alternative ways of 
communicating at the time. So she didnt think M&S treated Mr K unfairly based on what it 
knew at the time. 
Our investigator went through the FCAs requirements on persistent debt, and set out how 
M&S had complied with these when it wrote to Mr K. She also said that although Mr K had 
increased his monthly payments, this didnt change the outcome of the calculation on 
persistent debt, because he only changed this relatively recently. 
Our investigator said she didnt think she could fairly or reasonably censure M&S for 
following the FCA guidelines for accounts considered as being in persistent debt under these 
circumstances. And our investigator explained that M&S relied on the terms of the account 
when it then suspended Mr Ks account. She didnt think M&S had been unfair or 
unreasonable.
Mr K didnt agree. He repeated that M&S never responded to his questions. And he said that 
more recently, M&S just referred to his complaint to our service. He said he wasnt legally 
obliged to talk to M&S on the phone. Mr K said our investigator had alleged that M&S asked 
you for income and expenditure on several occasions, but you didnt provide it. He wanted 
her to substantiate that statement. And he wanted his complaint to be considered again.
Our investigator apologised, she said that M&S communications didnt directly ask for Mr 
Ks income and expenditure, but Mr K had been asked to contact M&S by phone on several 
occasions. That was to discuss his finances and the options available to pay off his card. 
During this call, M&S would have reviewed Mr Ks income and expenditure to ensure any 
proposed repayment plan would be affordable. 
Our investigator hadnt changed her mind about Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I havent set out the FCA requirements for dealing with credit card customers in persistent 
debt here, as its clear that Mr K is familiar with those, and understands why M&S was 
communicating with him about this.
When Mr K replied to M&S communications on persistent debt, he asked a number of 
questions. In particular, Mr K asked how much he would need to pay each month to clear the 
debt within four years, and he asked if M&S would consider reducing or waiving interest. 
Those arent questions I would expect M&S to answer in the abstract. M&S would need to 
have a considerable amount of additional information from Mr K, before it could work with 
him to decide how much he could afford each month, and before it could think about whether 
it should reduce or waive interest. 
M&S prefers to take this information, and to have a discussion about this, with its customers 
over the phone. I think thats a fair and reasonable starting point for M&S to have. Thats 
because M&S does need to engage in a detailed consideration of Mr Ks income and 
expenditure. M&S would want to look closely at this, to check what Mr K could afford, and it 
would want to make sure it wasnt asking for too much money. And, if any of the options 
open to Mr K might affect his credit file, M&S would need to explain any impact to Mr K. I 
think that, in most cases, is all usually best done over the phone. 
Our investigator explained that she would expect M&S to communicate with Mr K through 
alternative means if it was advised that Mr K had some reason why he wasnt able to have 
this conversation over the phone. I agree with that. But I cant see that Mr K ever told M&S 
that he preferred not to call because English isnt his first language. And from the 
communications Ive seen, I dont think that M&S ought to have realised Mr K would have 
difficulties communicating with it over the phone. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 
M&S to reply to Mr Ks communications with a request for him to call.
Mr K says that M&S didnt have to suspend his account, and he says the FCA guidance 
doesnt always require banks to do that. But I do think that M&S needed more information 
from Mr K. We know that Mr K didnt supply that information, because he didnt call. And Ive 
not been able to see that he had explained to M&S why not. So I dont think that M&S acted 
unreasonably or unfairly when it then suspended his account. Mr K has since told us that hes still asking these questions now, and M&S still isnt replying. 
He says its now referring to his complaint to us. But again, M&S is doing what I would 
expect it to do. 
It can be difficult for our service to manage a complaint to a successful conclusion if the 
business is also communicating directly with the customer about the issues which are central 
to the complaint. And here, the questions Mr K is asking M&S do appear to be those he has 
raised before, and then referred to us when M&S didnt directly answer them. So I dont think 
that M&S has made a mistake by saying to Mr K more recently that he should deal with this 
through our service, while our investigation was ongoing.
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think that M&S has done anything wrong. I know 
that Mr K will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman