DRN-3629084
Complaint
Mrs B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs B is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In May 2018, Mrs B was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mrs B decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 10-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In July 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mrs Bs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs B to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on energy bills would provide enough income to 
cover the finance agreement repayments costs.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs B or that there were 
any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mrs B and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators view for the following reasons: 
The CMC re-iterated that Mrs B was verbally told that the FIT payments and savings 
on energy bills would cover the cost of the monthly payments and that the system 
would be self-funding. 
The CMC challenged whether Ps sales processes were followed during the sales 
meeting  Mrs B says she was not taken through the sales document, and the 
information contained within it was not brought to her attention. Mrs B adds that if she 
had been shown the expected monthly deficits, she would not have bought the 
panels.
The CMC adds that even the benefits set out in the sales quote have not been 
realised.
The CMC has referred to a court case which it says had similar circumstances to 
Mrs B and this was upheld in the consumers favour  but it was for a different 
consumer against a different provider. 
The CMC has also pointed out that many consumers have raised complaints over the 
selling of solar panels, and many have been previously upheld in favour of 
consumers. 
The CMC questioned why Mrs B would buy solar panels if she had been told that she 
would receive no profit until 13 years after the installation of the system.
Mrs B replied directly and added that she was assured the system would be self-
funding for the first 7 years and after that any benefit received would be profit. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs B paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs B could claim against Shawbrook, 
the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same way she could 
have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding 
what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs B and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities - 
what I think most likely happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mrs B says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with the consumers testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the 
consumers version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
I would add that while Ive considered carefully the comments made by the CMC and the 
evidence submitted, each case brought to our service is assessed on the individual merits of 
that case. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Im satisfied that Mrs B was told that the cost of the system was £9,555. The quote sets this 
out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that the cash price 
of the system was £9,555. The total amount of credit is £9,455 (after deducting a deposit of 
£100) and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be £13,798.
The quote also set out that the expected monthly loan repayment was £114.22. But I note 
Mrs B deferred her payments for a few months which is reflected in her credit agreement 
and her monthly payment is also marginally different at £114.15  but I dont think these 
differences make the quote mis-leading. 
Having considered all the evidence, including the consumers recollections, Im satisfied that 
she was told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, 
as set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,555, it would 
cost Mrs B more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
Mrs B has said that she was told her monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and savings on energy bills. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the consumers recollections of their meeting with Ps 
representative to decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs B could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs B could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £159.09, which results in an average monthly income of £13.25. 
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs B could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £280.21 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs B the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £759.46. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together. 
As outlined above, Im satisfied that the quote set out that there would be a monthly loan 
repayment due of £114.22. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the consumer was told 
that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments and savings.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three table showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs B entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 120 monthly payments of 114.22. For each year of the 10-year loan it shows 
the expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, 
and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £114.22, to give an average difference 
between the monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs B could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. The 
table does clearly set out that the overall income she could expect to receive by way of FIT 
income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover the monthly 
loan repayments. This supports my finding above that the consumer wasnt told that the FIT 
payments and savings would cover the loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about the 
consumers version of events. However, as Ive found that the quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that she was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the 
FIT income and additional savings.
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs B that the system would be self-funding from the outset. 
In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have 
happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs B was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by year 13 the overall benefits that Mrs B could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs B that the system would pay for itself by 
year 13, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the 
contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
The MCS certificate sets out what the system is expected to produce in kWh a year and I 
understand the solar panel system may not be performing in line with the estimates made. 
Currently there is no explanation as to why the energy generated is not in line with the 
estimates made - for example, it may be that the system was defective, or it developed a 
fault. 
Mrs Bs original section 75 claim was that the system was not generating the estimated 
financial returns (in FIT payments and savings on energy bills), that the financial benefits 
were not covering the monthly finance cost, and that the system had therefore been 
misrepresented on that basis. So Shawbrook only dealt with that complaint, and itss answer 
was that the quote had made it clear Mrs B had not been told the system would be self-
funding from the start. 
Shawbrook didnt have to go further than that and investigate whether the system was 
generating as much energy as P had estimated. I can however see Shawbrook has noticed 
from Mrs Bs FIT statements that the system isnt performing in line with the quote in terms 
of energy generation and has offered to send an engineer out to inspect the system. If Mrs B 
would like Shawbrook to investigate this, she can contact Shawbrook to discuss this matter 
with it separately but I have not looked at it as part of this case. 
I have only considered whether P made any misrepresentations when it estimated the 
financial returns Mrs B was likely to receive from the system, independently of the systems 
failure to generate as much energy as estimated. 
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I think 
explain why she hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been expecting 
from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the modelling 
predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has been 
correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs B 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs B entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs B to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman