DRN-3581769
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with Fairmead Insurance Limiteds (Fairmead) handling of a
subsidence claim made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr and Mrs C noticed their porch had started to sink and the roof was
leaking. They reported this to Fairmead, their home insurance provider.
Fairmead appointed specialists, and following investigation, a claim was accepted for
subsidence under Mr and Mrs Cs insurance policy. This included repairing damage to the
drains associated with the subsidence.
Mr and Mrs C were also asked to pay a further excess for additional drain repairs, which
werent deemed to be connected to the subsidence damage or claim.
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy that theyve been asked to pay multiple excesses and make
separate claims. They think that all the damage should be considered under the one
subsidence claim. And they think additional damage to their property should also be covered
under the subsidence claim, but Fairmead says its not connected.
Mr and Mrs C have since paid to have some drain repairs completed privately but are
unhappy with the service theyve received from Fairmead, so they raised a complaint.
Fairmead didnt uphold the complaint. They said some drain damage was unconnected to
the subsidence claim, so would be considered under the accidental damage to underground
services policy cover, so a further excess was due. Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy and
approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint in part. He said that drain
repairs needed as a result of the subsidence damage should be considered under the one
subsidence claim, rather than as a separate accidental damage to underground services
claim. So, he said that should be considered as one claim and Fairmead should refund the
£200 excess paid by Mr and Mrs C, and 8% interest should be added from date of payment
to date of settlement.
The investigator also said that Mr and Mrs C had reported that the drain issues remain after
some of the repairs were carried out, so Fairmead should investigate this further. And that
some slabs were damaged too, so he said they should also be covered under the claim. He
also said Fairmead hadnt acted unreasonably by not covering alleged patio damage as this
was likely due to settlement, rather than subsidence.
Our investigator said that he noted Mr and Mrs C had paid for some of the drain repairs
themselves, but based on the information provided, these repairs were unconnected to the
subsidence. And he noted there were some drainage design issues and cracking above the
windows due to a lack of lintels. He said that the policy doesnt cover defects caused by
faulty design or workmanship, so it wasnt unreasonable that Fairmead didnt include these
within the claim.
However, the investigator recognised that Mr and Mrs C had experienced poor
communication during the claim along with some delays, so he said they should be
compensated.
In summary he recommended:
A further site investigation be completed to assess if further works are required to the 
drainage repairs connected to the subsidence claim. And a lasting and effective 
repair should be completed if required
Continue with monitoring and the remaining subsidence repairs
Refund the £200 policy excess paid by Mr and Mrs C with 8% interest added from 
date of payment to date of settlement, as the drains damage caused by the 
subsidence and subsidence repairs to the property should be one claim
Pay Mr and Mrs C £500 compensation.
Fairmead responded and agreed in part. They said that the drains connected to the
subsidence damage and within influencing distance were repaired under one subsidence
claim. So, they say they have met their liabilities under the subsidence claim. But as there is
suggestion there is a defect with the repairs theyve completed, theyll need to investigate
this further.
But Fairmead said a separate claim was set up to deal with the drainage repair to the
unrelated and unconnected area, but this was withdrawn by Mr and Mrs C and they settled
costs for repairs privately. Fairmead say dealing with this separately was the right process
as they did not affect the property or cause the subsidence movement. But as the claim was
withdrawn by Mr and Mrs C, no excess was paid by them in any event so there was no
excess to refund.
Fairmead also said theyd review the slabs near the kitchen when the alleged drainage
repair defects are investigated. They said that if they have been damaged by the same
ground movement that has affected the main property, then they agree they should meet the
cost of relaying them. But if they havent moved, or its not as a result of the subsidence,
then the policy wouldnt cover the cost of relaying them.
Fairmead also said they agreed in part with our investigator that the communication
shouldve been better.
Mr and Mrs C responded and they didnt agree with the investigators view of things or
recommendations. They said only part of the drain repairs have been completed. They said
that as subsidence has caused the land to drop on three sides of the property, anything
connected with that should be covered under the subsidence claim regardless.They also reiterated they had paid for private drainage works to Fairmeads agent, and they
are also unhappy with the drainage works carried out under the claim. And they also said the
actual subsidence repairs to their home also havent been completed either.
Mr and Mrs C asked for reimbursement of the private drains works they paid for and for
Fairmead to cover the cost of them obtaining an independent drainage specialist survey.
They also said Fairmead should cover the cost of the slabs outside the kitchen to be entirely
relayed.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision. I reached broadly the same outcome as our investigator, but 
there were some additional reasons. I also didnt think Fairmeads response to our 
investigators assessment was entirely correct or reflected the actual position based on what 
Id seen. So, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment 
on my provisional findings, before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I note that Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with an increase in their insurance 
policy premiums after they made the subsidence claim. This was considered as a 
separate complaint by this service, so doesnt form part of my consideration here. 
This complaint solely relates to Fairmeads handling of Mr and Mrs Cs subsidence 
claim.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Ive reached broadly the same outcome as our
investigator, but there are some additional reasons. I also dont think, based on what 
Ive seen, Fairmeads response to our investigators assessment is entirely correct or 
reflects the actual position based on the information both parties have provided. I 
asked Fairmead for their comments on this, but they didnt respond. So, Im issuing a 
provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my provisional 
findings, before I reach my final decision.
The drain damage and repairs
Mr and Mrs C noticed their porch was sinking and the roof was leaking. Fairmead 
appointed their agents to carry out investigations into the cause. Drain surveys were 
carried out, which concluded some drains had been damaged as a result of 
subsidence. They also noted that some of the drain defects were unrelated to the 
subsidence as they were deemed to be outside the area of influence.
Ultimately, repairs to the drains determined to be as a result of subsidence damage 
were covered under Mr and Mrs Cs policy by Fairmead. Ill talk about what part of 
the policy and the applicable excess further below.However, Mr and Mrs C have said these subsidence related drain repairs havent 
been correctly completed, and this is why our investigator said a further site visit 
should be carried out to establish if a lasting and effective repair has been 
completed. Fairmead also responded to the investigators view agreeing theyd need 
to consider the repairs already completed to establish if they were defective. And I 
think this is reasonable in the circumstances.
I note Mr and Mrs C have said theyd like Fairmead to pay for an independent 
inspection of the drains. But Im not minded to direct Fairmead to do that at this 
stage. In the first instance, Fairmead needs to have the opportunity to inspect works 
they carried out, and to rectify them if needed. So, if my final decision remains the 
same as my provisional decision, then Im minded to direct Fairmead to carry out a 
site investigation to establish if there are issues with the drain repairs completed, and 
if so, to carry out a lasting and effective repair.
However, some additional drainage works needed were not deemed to be as a result 
of the subsidence. Therefore, Fairmead said an additional claim would need to be 
made and an additional excess would need to be paid by Mr and Mrs C. Whilst I note 
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with this, in the absence of any expert reports which show 
this was damage to those drains caused by the subsidence (or contributing to it), Im 
unable to conclude these repairs should be included as part of the subsidence claim.
I understand that Mr and Mrs C have since paid to have some drain works privately
completed. And in the absence of expert evidence demonstrating subsidence caused 
this damage (or it was contributing to it), Mr and Mrs C not making a claim or paying 
the excess for it, Im not minded to direct Fairmead to reimburse the £325 
Mr and Mrs C have paid for the repairs.
In addition, Fairmeads agents have also said that a drainage channel to front of the 
property has a faulty design and have recommended Mr and Mrs C complete private 
works to direct ground water away from their property. And they also concluded 
damage above the windows was due to the absence of lintels, so faulty design and 
workmanship too. But thats not covered under Mr and Mrs Cs policy. So, I dont 
think Fairmead has acted unreasonably by not covering either the redesign of this 
part of the drainage or installing lintels above the windows.
The policy excesses
As Ive outlined above, I dont think its unreasonable for Fairmead to ask for another 
claim to be raised and a separate excess to be paid for accidental damage to drains 
unconnected to the subsidence.
Fairmead has said that the drain damage, which was caused by the subsidence, 
and/or contributing to it, was covered as part of the one subsidence claim. The 
internal notes in places reflect this position, such as:
payment approved  the drainage repairs required to mitigate the subsidence 
damage are covered under this claim. The leaking drains remote from the 
property / not influencing the movement of the property are to be dealt with as 
a separate claim subject to the policy excess accordingly.However, having reviewed all the information provided, Im not persuaded, based on 
what Ive seen, that it was actually considered under the one subsidence claim as the 
notes and Fairmeads response to the investigator view allege. Instead there appears 
to have been a separate subsidence claim and a separate accidental damage to 
underground services claim at the same time, and separate excesses applied to 
each, despite them both being for the subsidence related repairs.
I say this for several reasons, based on the information both parties have provided.
Firstly, Mr and Mrs C have provided two receipts from Fairmeads drain specialist 
which show two separate amounts of £200 paid. One payment was made in April 
2020, and one in May 2021. I understand the May 2021 payment relates to the claim 
which was withdrawn by Mr and Mrs C. And they paid an additional £125 to the 
drainage company for the private repairs to be completed. But as I said above, Im 
not minded to direct Fairmead to reimburse that £325.
However, Mr and Mrs C also paid the drain specialist separately a £200 excess in 
April 2020 and have provided a receipt for this. This was at the same time as the 
subsidence claim (which carries a separate excess of £1,100). So, it does appear a 
second claim and excess were applied for the drains part of the subsidence claim, 
alongside the actual subsidence claim itself.
The costings breakdown in the interim reports from the loss adjuster from this time 
also show a £200 excess was paid for accidental damage to undergrounded 
services, along with an excess being due for subsidence, and the notes from them 
also reflect this, for example:
I would like to explain that the cost for the drainage repairs were split into 
two sections. One that was deemed local tot eh (sic) area of subsidence 
movement by the engineer and the other that was not. The one that was 
deemed to be subsidence related was done under AD on the subsidence 
claim with a policy excess. 
Insurers had advised that the remaining which is not subsidence related 
would need to be dealt with under a new claim which would require a different 
excess.
So, this shows a separate accidental damage excess was charged for the drain 
repairs which were actually related to the subsidence damage. And a note from July 
2020 also says:
The second quotation is for drainage works that are required that are beyond 
the area of possible influence in relation to the subsidence issuerelining of 
this section of the drain is deemed not to be related to the current subsidence 
claim and therefore we have not included it within the mitigation purposes for 
the subsidence claim. We request clarification whether these works are to be 
funded by the Policyholder on a private basis or alternatively whether a 
second drainage claim should be instigated with regard to this aspect of 
works or alternatively whether these works should be undertaken within the 
previous claim with the Policyholder already having paid the Policy Excess of 
£200.
So, whilst Fairmead says it was all considered under the one subsidence claim, the
information provided conflicts with this and it does look like a separate excess was 
paid for the drain repairs associated with the subsidence - as Ive outlined above.I can see from the internal notes there has been some internal discussion as to what 
drain repairs should or shouldnt be considered as part of the subsidence claim. And I 
think the end point reached (and mentioned in Fairmeads response to our 
investigator assessment) is fair and reasonable  that the drain damage associated 
with and contributing to the subsidence should be considered under the one 
subsidence claim, and the drain damage unconnected should be separate. But this 
doesnt appear to be what has actually happened here.
With this in mind, if my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision, Ill 
be directing Fairmead to reimburse the £200 excess paid by Mr and Mrs C in April 
2020, with 8% interest added from date of payment to date of settlement. In addition, 
if this is currently recorded internally and externally as two separate claims for that 
same event, Fairmead will need to amend its records internally and externally to 
reflect the one subsidence claim and repairs.
The subsidence repairs
Mr and Mrs C have said that subsidence repairs to their property, separate to the 
drains, still havent been completed. If my final decision remains the same as my 
provisional decision, Ill be directing Fairmead to carry out a site investigation to 
establish if the drains have had a lasting and effective repair completed. If 
Mr and Mrs C accept my final decision, and once Fairmead have done that, and 
carried out a lasting and effective repair to the drain if required, then Fairmead will 
then be able to continue with the subsidence repairs to the property.
So at this stage there isnt anything more I can do to direct Fairmead to complete the 
repairs, as further drain investigations are required in order to establish if a lasting 
and effective repair has been carried out, before the remaining repairs can be 
completed.
Fairmead said theyll review the slabbed area outside the kitchen at the same time as 
the drain repairs being reviewed. Theyve said that if they have been damaged by the 
same ground movement that has affected the main property then theyll consider 
relaying them as part of the claim. But if they havent moved or the movement is 
unrelated to the subsidence, then it isnt covered by the policy.
Whilst the outcome of the investigation isnt known until it is carried out, in principle I 
think what Fairmead has said here might be reasonable, but I cant make a finding on 
that as its not yet happened. Once the investigation has actually been carried out, 
and if Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the ultimate outcome reached following this, 
based on that new information, we may be able to consider that as a new separate 
complaint. But at this stage Im not able to direct them to carry out those works yet to 
be inspected.
The service received
Subsidence claims can take time due to their nature. As is the case here, there were 
periods of monitoring required, along with investigations into the cause and this can 
take long periods of time to complete. But here it does appear confusion has been 
caused around what is and isnt being covered under the subsidence claim, and 
whether an excess or excesses are applicable. And Mr and Mrs C have argued that 
all the drain repairs should be covered under the same claim, and Im partly in 
agreement some should have been, for the reasons outlined above.And there have been several different parties involved in the claim, and I cant see 
that Mr and Mrs C were given any clear explanation who was involved or their role 
until much later into the claim, which has added to their concern and frustration about 
what was happening and who was responsible for what and who they needed to 
contact.
It also appears there were delays during the claim, such as the insured drain repairs, 
further repairs later being discovered and a delay in approving them, albeit some 
delays were outside Fairmeads control due to wider unforeseen circumstances in the 
outside environment. But Fairmead also accepts communication couldve been better 
throughout. And as Ive mentioned, allegedly the repairs to drains under the 
subsidence claim still have issues, which has added to the overall timescale in the 
remaining repairs being able to be completed.
Having considered everything provided by both parties, like our investigator, Im 
minded to direct Fairmead to pay Mr and Mrs C £500 compensation.
Therefore, I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct Fairmead to:
Carry out a further site investigation to establish if a lasting and effective repair has
been carried out to the drainage covered under the subsidence claim, and if not, to
complete a lasting and effective repair
Investigate whether the slabs near the kitchen have been damaged by subsidence,
and if so, meet the cost of relaying them under the subsidence claim
Reimburse the £200 accidental damage to underground services excess paid by
Mr and Mrs C in April 2020, with 8% interest added from date of payment to date of
settlement
Update any internal and/or external records of the claim (for subsidence and drain
repairs associated with that subsidence) so they reflect one subsidence claim
Pay Mr and Mrs C £500 compensation
The responses to my provisional decision
Fairmead responded accepting my provisional decision. They said they didnt have any 
further comments to add in response.
Mr and Mrs C responded to the provisional decision. They reiterated they were unhappy with 
the service received from Fairmead and their agents and are sceptical about the future 
service theyll receive from them. They also said they are unhappy that Fairmead opened a 
subsidence and separate drains claim without their consent but recognise that I said in my 
provisional decision that it should be one claim.
Mr and Mrs C reiterated that they think all the damage to three sides should be covered 
under the subsidence claim, along with all works to the drains, regardless. They maintain 
Fairmead should reimburse the £325 they paid for some of the drain repairs, and that all 
works should be included under the claim.
Theyve also said that the drain repairs that have been completed as part of the subsidence 
claim havent been carried out correctly, and some have been missed. So, they maintain that 
they should be able to get an independent survey completed of the works that have been 
carried out.Mr and Mrs C also added further comments surrounding the slabs and that they have sunk, 
and their view on the reasons why this has happened. And they think this should be 
surveyed to establish the cause. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, and 
the responses to it. Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional 
decision.
Neither party disagreed with my provisional findings that the original claim for subsidence 
and drains shouldve been considered as one, with one excess. And the information 
provided, despite Fairmeads assertions, showed that Mr and Mrs C actually paid a separate 
£200 excess for drain repairs caused by the subsidence, rather than it all being considered 
under the one subsidence claim.
So, my final decision on this point is that Fairmead should refund the £200 excess paid in 
April 2020 (with 8% simple interest added from date of payment to date of settlement), and 
amend records internally and externally to reflect the one subsidence claim and repairs. 
I recognise Mr and Mrs C are unhappy it was treated as two separate claims with a separate 
excess. Along with refunding the excess (with 8% interest added), and recording it as one 
claim, Ive also decided Fairmead should compensate Mr and Mrs C £500 for this, and for 
the overall service theyve received. 
Whilst I note Mr and Mrs C have concerns about the future service they may receive from 
Fairmead and their agents, I cant compensate them for something which may or may not 
happen in the future. But if there are any new issues, Mr and Mrs C would need to raise 
these with Fairmead in the first instance, before referring those concerns to this service as a 
new complaint.
As I outlined in my provisional decision, in the absence of expert reports demonstrating all 
the drain repairs needed are part of the same subsidence claim and damage, Im unable to 
conclude Fairmead has acted unreasonably by considering some of the drain damage and 
repairs separate. Whilst I note Mr and Mrs Cs comments and information provided, in the 
absence of an expert report specifically demonstrating this, and/or Mr and Mrs C making a 
separate claim and paying an additional excess, Im not going to direct Fairmead to 
reimburse the £325 Mr and Mrs C have paid for those repairs. And Im also not going to 
direct them to pay for lintels to be installed, or to rectify a drain which has a faulty design, as 
the policy doesnt cover faulty design or workmanship. 
In my provisional decision I said that Mr and Mrs C allege that the repairs to the drains 
carried out under the claim havent been completed correctly by Fairmead. Whilst I note 
theyd like an independent inspection carried out (or the opportunity for them to obtain one 
with Fairmead covering the cost), as I said in my provisional decision, Fairmead needs to 
have the opportunity in the first instance to inspect works they carried out and to rectify them 
if needed. So, Im directing them to investigate whether a lasting and effective repair has 
been completed to the drainage covered under the subsidence claim, and if not, to do so.Fairmead said theyd review the slabbed area when the drain repairs are reviewed. And if 
they have been damaged by the same ground movement that has affected the main 
property, then theyll consider relaying them as part of the claim. But if they havent moved or 
movement is unrelated to the subsidence, then it isnt covered by the policy. 
In my provisional decision, I said I was minded to direct Fairmead to investigate the slabs 
movement and whether they had been damaged by subsidence, and if so, meet the cost of 
relaying them under the subsidence claim. If after that investigation has happened, and if 
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the outcome reached by Fairmead, we may be able to 
consider that as a new complaint based on that new information. But at this stage Im not 
going to direct them to carry out works without reviewing the cause, and instead Ill be 
directing them to investigate the cause in the first instance as outlined in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Fairmead Insurance 
Limited to:
Carry out a further investigation to establish if a lasting and effective repair has been 
carried out to the drainage covered under the subsidence claim, and if not, to 
complete a lasting and effective repair
Investigate whether the slabs near the kitchen have been damaged by subsidence, 
and if so, meet the cost of relaying them under the subsidence claim
Reimburse the £200 accidental damage to underground services excess paid by 
Mr and Mrs C in April 2020, with 8% simple interest* added from date of payment to 
date of settlement
Update any internal and external records of the claim (for subsidence and drain 
repairs associated with that subsidence) so they reflect one subsidence claim
Pay Mr and Mrs C £500 compensation
*If Fairmead Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs C how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman