DRN-1303275
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited declined his claim and treated his 
motor insurance policy as if it never existed (avoided it) following the theft of his motorbike. 
 What happened
Mr Bs bike was stolen from outside his flat and he made a claim to MCE. But it declined it 
because it said he had made a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation when hed 
taken out his policy. It later avoided his policy. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought MCE 
had asked Mr B clear questions about where the bike was kept overnight. He thought Mr B 
had answered that it was kept in a concrete garage. But the investigator thought that in the 
calls Mr B later made to MCE hed said the bike was usually kept at railings outside his flat. 
So he thought MCE was entitled to conclude that Mr B had made a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation. And so he thought it was entitled under the relevant legislation to decline 
the claim and avoid the policy. 
Mr B replied that hed been confused by MCEs questions about where the bike was usually 
kept. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come to me for a 
final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator has explained, the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, its entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims under it. So Ive looked to see whether MCE asked Mr B a clear question when the policy was taken 
out. Ive then checked that the information given would affect whether a policy was offered. 
And Ive checked whether Mr B has acted carelessly or deliberately in making the 
misrepresentation.
Mr B took out his policy online. MCE has provided us with the questions he was then asked 
about where his bike was kept when at his home address. He was given a list of options and 
Mr B selected garage. He was then asked to select the garages structure, and he chose 
concrete. This was confirmed on the policy schedule. I think these were clear questions 
and I think theres no disagreement that Mr B chose garage and concrete.
But I think Mr B gave the incorrect answer and so misrepresented where the bike was kept. 
This is because when, following the theft, MCE asked Mr B where the bike was kept. He said 
it was usually on the railings outside his flat block. This was repeated in a validation call. 
When MCE asked about the garage, Mr B said hed never mentioned a garage. 
After MCE declined the claim, Mr B said hed misunderstood its questions and that the bike 
was usually kept in a garage. But Im not persuaded by this as Mr B hadnt said anything 
about this in the two earlier calls.  
So I think Mr B didnt take reasonable care to correctly answer MCEs question about where 
the bike was kept. MCE has provided us with evidence from its underwriters showing that 
the answer Mr B gave made a difference to the cover he was offered. So, under the relevant 
legislation, I think Mr B made a qualifying misrepresentation.
I also think MCE was entitled to decide that Mr Bs misrepresentation was reckless or 
deliberate. I say this because, from Mr Bs responses to MCEs questions, I think its clear 
that he must have realised that the bike would be usually kept outside his flat and not in a 
concrete garage. In that case, under CIDRA, I think MCE was entitled to avoid the policy, 
decline the claim and retain the premiums. So I think MCE acted fairly and reasonably and I 
cant say that it did anything wrong or needs to accept Mr Bs claim.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman