DRN-2952593
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as P, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly delayed a loan 
to the company and hasnt offered enough compensation.
What happened
In the summer of 2019, P approached Lloyds with the aim of obtaining a loan which it 
needed to set up a franchisee business. The bank agreed the loan but it wasnt until the end 
of December 2019 that the money was available for P to draw down.
P complained to Lloyds about the time it had taken. The bank noted that the application form 
was not signed until early October 2019 and that some of the delay resulted from a property 
valuation that was lower than expected, from communications difficulties that were not of the 
banks making, and from complications arising because the property was found to be held in 
joint names. But Lloyds agreed that the process had taken longer than it should have done. 
As compensation for Ps inconvenience, Lloyds paid the company £250.
P didnt think Lloyds had done enough to settle the complaint. The company referred the 
matter to this service, saying the delay had caused financial losses. Ps director, Mr H, said 
that P had incurred various costs, including fees for legal and accountancy services.
After considering the evidence, our investigator didnt think that Lloyds needed to do 
anything further. He thought that the costs that P incurred were always going to be payable  
though perhaps at a different time  and he wasnt persuaded they would been avoided if the 
lending had been released earlier. 
In response, Mr H said he accepted that P would have needed to pay the costs in the normal 
running of the business, regardless of the delay. But he drew attention to Ps business plan 
and to the actual takings of the business when it began trading. He said P suffered revenue 
losses resulting from its delayed opening, and the revenue forecast was a good 
approximation for these losses.
The investigator considered Ps claim for lost revenue. He said that it was difficult to know 
what exactly would have happened if the loan been approved earlier. Given the inherent 
uncertainty, the investigator said he wasnt persuaded that the additional earnings would 
have been received had it not been for the delay. 
P didnt agree with the investigators conclusion. Mr H said the figures in the business plan 
were based on the experience of many similar franchisee businesses.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im sorry to tell Mr H that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and for largely the same reasons.
Its common ground now that the costs incurred during the start-up of the business would 
have arisen at some point anyway and therefore werent caused by the delay.
Ive looked carefully at Mr Hs arguments and evidence regarding Ps revenue. In the 
circumstances of this case, I agree with the investigator that the evidence from the business 
plan and actual takings doesnt establish with any certainty that the banks delay caused 
losses to P. This was a start-up enterprise and there are many possible factors which might 
have determined when it opened and its level of takings. I dont believe it would be 
reasonable to conclude that its revenue would have come on stream earlier, at the level 
estimated by its business plan, if the lending had come through sooner. 
In any event, I note that the formal loan application was made in October 2019 and there 
were some complications related to the security, so I dont believe that the draw-down at the 
end of December 2019 represented so great a delay that I could reasonably hold the bank 
responsible for any loss of initial earnings. I understand that the delay was an 
inconvenience, for which Lloyds has already paid £250 compensation, but I dont think it was 
substantially outside the range of problems that could reasonably be expected when 
arranging business finance in advance of trading. 
For these reasons, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to require the bank to pay any 
further compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman