The complaint
Mr G complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited failed to pay a claim 
made under a group critical illness insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G experienced a cerebrovascular event in 2017 so made a claim for stroke under a group 
critical illness insurance policy. The claim was declined as Legal and General didnt think 
Mr G had suffered a stroke.
This was the subject of a previous complaint with our service  the ombudsman decided 
there wasnt sufficient evidence to show Mr G had met the policy definition of stroke. But he 
said Mr G could provide new evidence to Legal and General if his situation changed.
Mr G was no longer a member of the group scheme from December 2018. But in 2019 he 
asked Legal and General to reconsider the claim, providing further evidence from his 
doctors. Mr G felt the evidence showed he had lasting neurological symptoms as a result of 
a stroke. So, he thought the claim should be accepted.
Legal and General didnt change its position so Mr G referred a new complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Whilst he thought the medical evidence showed 
Mr G had most likely suffered a stroke, he wasnt persuaded the policy definition had been 
met before Mr Gs cover under the policy ended.
Mr G asked for a final decision on the matter. He thought the evidence provided by his 
doctors showed that the headaches he experienced since he had the stroke were caused by 
it and were now considered permanent.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr G, so Ill 
explain why.
Under the terms of the policy, in order for a claim for stroke to be accepted, the following 
definition must be met:
Stroke  resulting in permanent symptoms
Death of brain tissue due to inadequate blood supply or haemorrhage within the skull 
resulting in permanent neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms.
DRN-1315858For the above definition, the following are not covered:
(i) Transient ischaemic attack.
(ii) Traumatic injury to brain tissue or blood vessels.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think its fair to say Mr G has suffered a stroke. Whilst the 
initial diagnosis was a transient ischaemic attack (TIA), it seems to me that following an 
MRI scan of Mr Gs brain in June 2017, an infarction was confirmed in the frontal lobe. From 
this point on, the neurologists involved in Mr Gs care refer to the incident as a stroke. 
However, in order for the claim to be payable there must be evidence of a permanent 
neurological deficit with persisting clinical symptoms.
Ive considered the evidence provided by Mr G. Some of this comes after the point he 
stopped being covered by the policy in December 2018. So I havent relied on this evidence 
unless it seeks to clarify Mr Gs state of health whilst he was covered by the policy.
Overall, Im not persuaded the evidence shows Mr G meets Legal and Generals definition of 
stroke. I say this largely due to a letter provided by Dr A, Consultant Neurologist dated 
26 June 2018. In this letter Dr A confirms a diagnosis of primary stabbing headache. He 
goes on to say:
It is difficult to know why this has happened, although the stroke certainly seems to be a 
relevant trigger factor. I am not worried about the underlying cause of the headache but it 
would be nice to try and find something that would reduce the symptoms a little.
Ive also seen a further letter Dr A wrote to another insurance provider. This is dated 
12 March 2019, but as Dr A hadnt seen Mr G since 2018, I think its fair to take this into 
account. In this letter Dr A repeats the diagnosis and refers to it as a rare headache disorder. 
He also discusses some potential treatment options, although he says there wasnt a lot of 
evidence to show whether or not this would likely improve Mr Gs symptoms.
Taking both of these letters into account, I dont think theres sufficient evidence to say that 
Mr Gs headaches are evidence of a permanent neurological deficit resulting from the stroke. 
Whilst Dr A clearly considers Mr Gs stroke to be a relevant trigger factor, he refers to an 
underlying unknown cause of the headaches. If he considered the underlying cause to be a 
permanent neurological deficit caused by the stroke, I think he would have said so. It also 
seems to me that prior to cover under the policy ending it couldnt be said that the symptoms 
were permanent. This is because at that point, treatment options were still available to Mr G.
Mr G has also said Legal and General declined to consider whether he met the definition of 
total and permanent disability. But I dont think that was unreasonable. While Mr G was 
prevented from working by his symptoms at the point his cover ended, there were still 
treatment options available to him which couldve improved his symptoms and allowed him 
to return to work. So, his disability couldnt be said to be permanent at that point.
I know this wasnt the outcome Mr G was hoping for and I appreciate it leaves him in a 
difficult position. But I dont think Legal and Generals decision to decline his claim for critical 
illness benefit was unfair.
 
 
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman