DRN-2183542
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc was irresponsible when it offered them 
a mortgage without verifying their income.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with Bank of Ireland in July 2006. The mortgage was 
recommended by a broker. The mortgage was on an interest only basis and expired in 2016. 
Mr and Mrs D sold the property to repay the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs D say the information in the mortgage application about their income was 
incorrect. They say Bank of Ireland was irresponsible as it didnt verify their income or check 
the mortgage was affordable.
Our investigator said Bank of Ireland offered the mortgage based on the information 
provided to it and in accordance with rules on mortgage regulation at that time. It had no 
reason to question the information it was given about Mr and Mrs Ds income. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
make a decision. This is the final stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was recommended by a broker. The broker made the mortgage 
application on behalf of Mr and Mrs D. 
Mr and Mrs D say their broker only offered them one type of mortgage, the mortgage offer 
was on the lenders letterhead and the broker received a fee from the lender. They say this 
shows the broker acted on behalf of the lender. They say they werent given a chance to 
review the information included in their application and recently discovered it was incorrect. 
They say this would have been avoided if Bank of Ireland had checked the details with them. 
Mr D says the mortgage offer was on the lenders letterhead. Theres nothing unusual about 
that  mortgage offers are issued by the lender. And its not unusual for a broker to receive a 
fee from a lender. This doesnt mean the broker was acting as the lenders agent or 
representative, its simply the usual application process. 
The broker that recommended the mortgage to Mr and Mrs D was responsible for checking it 
was suitable and affordable. And the broker would have completed the mortgage application 
on behalf of Mr and Mrs D. Mr and Mrs D say the broker acted improperly, and Im sorry if 
thats the case. But Bank of Ireland isnt responsible for the broker. 
Bank of Ireland, as lender, had to take account of Mr and Mrs Ds ability to repay the 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs D say their income in their application was inflated and Bank of 
Ireland would have known this if it had verified their income. 
Mr and Mrs Ds income was self-certified, which rules on mortgage regulation allowed at the 
time. This was intended for applicants who were not easily able to evidence their income  
for instance if they were self-employed and didnt have recent accounts. Bank of Ireland 
could rely on self-certified income in appropriate circumstances and provided it had no 
reasonable grounds to doubt the information provided. It didnt have to verify Mr and Mrs Ds 
self-certified income. 
Mr D says he signed a part-completed form expecting the broker to complete it using 
information from his accountant and bank. He says the broker completed it with incorrect 
income information. Mr D says he didnt review the completed application, and so wasnt 
aware of this. 
Mr D says the application was wrong: he didnt need to self-certify income as he was able to 
provide evidence of his income, and the income was wrong. But based on the evidence 
available to me, I dont think Bank of Ireland knew this. It received an application signed by 
Mr and Mrs D to confirm the information, including about their income, was correct. If Mr and 
Mrs D signed the application before the information was completed, Bank of Ireland couldnt 
have known this. I havent seen evidence to support what Mr D has said about Bank of 
Ireland fast-tracking the mortgage to avoid checking his income. 
Bank of Ireland assessed Mr and Mrs Ds application based on the information it received, 
including their self-certified income. I dont think Bank of Ireland knew this was incorrect, or 
had any reasonable grounds to question the information it received.
The mortgage was on an interest only basis, and Mr and Mrs D sold their house to repay the 
balance at the end of the term. When Mr and Mrs D took out the mortgage rules on 
mortgage regulation didnt require Bank of Ireland to check Mr and Mrs Ds repayment 
vehicle. Im sorry that matters havent turned out as Mr and Mrs D hoped. But, based on the 
available evidence, I dont think Bank of Ireland acted wrongly or unfairly and so Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman