DRN-3470578
The complaint
Miss N complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) blocked and then closed her 
accounts. Miss N is also unhappy Barclays held onto these funds causing her distress and 
inconvenience. 
What happened
Barclays carried out a review of Miss Ns account in December 2020 after it received a 
payment of around £6,000. In doing so Barclays blocked the account. Around a month later 
in January 2021, Barclays decided to close Miss Ns accounts with immediate effect. A letter 
was sent to Miss N explaining this decision. 
Miss Ns current, Child ISA and savings accounts were closed by Barclays. The funds held 
in them, totalling around £9,000 were withheld by Barclays. 
Barclays sent its final response in February 2021, after Miss N had complained. Barclays 
said it would not provide a reason for the closure of the accounts. It added most of the funds 
will continue to be withheld  but that Miss N can access around £2,000 by going into a 
branch with proof of identity. 
Barclays explained the funds being withheld related to a large payment into Miss Ns 
account in December 2020 - and they will continue to be held until April 2021. Barclays 
offered Miss N £200 for the inconvenience it had caused her. 
Unhappy with what Barclays said, Miss N referred her complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint. In summary, they found: 
- Barclays reviewed Miss Ns accounts in line with its obligations and the terms of the 
account   
- Barclays isnt obliged to provide any notice or explanation for carrying out a review or 
for closing the accounts
- Barclays have acknowledged its review went over its internal timescales by two days 
- Unless theres a good reason, this service wont usually say a bank must keep a 
customer thats had their account closed 
- Barclays had not conducted a thorough enough investigation and so closing the 
account immediately was not fair or reasonable. Miss N should have been given 30 
or 60 days notice which would have allowed her to make alternative arrangements 
- Barclays could have been more flexible in February 2021 when Miss N told it she 
couldnt come into branch due to medical vulnerabilities to collect part of the funds  
around £2,000  that were being withheld. But Miss N hadnt at that point been 
identified as a clinically vulnerable person due to COVD, so she wasnt likely officially 
shielding
- Barclays later said it would give all the funds it was withholding back to Miss N. There 
were clear failings in Barclays investigation and these funds should have been 
returned much earlier. Miss N had told Barclays these funds were from her childrens 
fathers education fees  so they were not intended for her. 
- To put things right, our Investigator recommended Barclays: give a written apology to 
Miss N; refund all of the funds; pay 8% simple interest on the amount separate from 
her partners fees of around £2,000 - as the other funds were not intended for Miss N 
 from when Barclays should have released them until February 2022;and it should 
pay £350 compensation for the impact its errors caused 
Barclays had previously made a pro-active offer through our Investigator. This included 
Miss N being given all the funds with simple interest being applied to them entirely, and £200 
as compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Miss N did not accept Barclays offer, nor did she agree with what our Investigator said. In 
response she has said: 
- Barclays should pay 8% simple interest on all the funds and not on part of them 
- Not all the money sent to her on 24 December 2020 was for her partners fees, some 
of it was for her household costs 
- She was left without money over Christmas and had to borrow to get by. This matter 
almost broke her home and her two very young children were adversely affected. 
The compensation offered for the pain and suffering isnt enough  
As Miss N did not agree with what our Investigator said, the matter has now been passed to 
me  an Ombudsman  to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Account review, block and closure
Banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at Barclays reasons for carrying out the review, and subsequently blocking 
Miss Ns access to the funds, Im satisfied it acted in line with obligations placed on it  and 
in line with the terms of the account. Barclays are under no obligation to disclose its reasons.
Barclays say it should have released part of Miss Ns funds which were not sent to the 
account by her partners relative two days before it did. Miss N says she told Barclays she 
was unable to come into its branch as she was concerned about her health due to COVID 
and being vulnerable. Though Miss N wasnt clinically diagnosed as vulnerable, shes sent in 
information which shows she was advised to follow shielding guidelines from the relevant 
public health body.  Barclays internal notes dont show it took any reasonable steps, or showed any flexibility, to 
send Miss N these funds in another way given she was in effect shielding. Im persuaded it 
should have done more to help her, especially as those funds were not earmarked for her 
partner  but her living costs. 
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank. 
But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account. Under the terns of its accounts, Barclays exercised a 
provision to close the account immediately when it completed its review. 
But from what Ive seen, Im not persuaded Barclays carried out enough of an investigation, 
including the source of funds it had concerns about, before deciding to close the accounts 
immediately or with more notice.  So because of that, Im persuaded Barclays should have 
given Miss N more time  typically 60 days  before closing the account. This in turn would 
have meant Miss N had more time to make alternative banking arrangements. 
Given Barclays failed to carry out an investigation in the way Id expect it to, its possible it 
should have returned all the money to Miss N much sooner than it did. Because of that I 
think its reasonable for Barclays to have returned all the funds to Miss N when it decided to 
do so in February 2021  as thats how long it typically has said its investigations take, albeit 
a couple of days late in this case. 
Miss N wanted a letter apology from Barclays  and it has said it will do this. So I dont need 
to make a finding on this point. 
Miss N has questioned why our Investigator recommended Barclays only pay 8% simple 
interest on the portion of money held by Barclays which was separate to funds earmarked 
for her partners educational fees. 
Having given this some thought, I agree. Thats because its not Miss N who has been 
deprived of these funds, they were her partners. Any loss on any potential earnings accrued 
on this portion of the funds, are not Miss Ns. So I make no award of interest on any portion 
of the funds that didnt belong to her.
I note Miss N says some of the money sent by her partners relative was for her as he 
contributed a quarter of the households costs. Im not placing any weight on this as its 
something shes only mentioned after our Investigator reached his view. Nor have I seen any 
compelling evidence to support this altered assertion. 
Distress and inconvenience  
Miss N feels strongly she should be awarded more compensation than that recommended 
by our Investigator for the distress and inconvenience shes suffered. Ive taken on-board 
that it was Christmas when the account was reviewed and blocked. But Ive already said 
Barclays didnt do anything wrong by reviewing the account and blocking it while it did this. 
So, unfortunately, Miss N would likely have suffered the consequences of this up until 
Barclays should have properly concluded its own investigation. 
I do however accept Barclays should have shown more flexibility in how it returned Miss N 
the money given her vulnerabilities. And I think having it returned sooner would no doubt 
have alleviated any distress and inconvenience. Ive also thought about how this matter 
would have put strain on Miss Ns relationships and reputation. Ive further noted the impact 
Miss N has said this had on her health. 
Having given this considerable thought, Im satisfied £350 is fair compensation. Lastly, Ive picked up on a couple of statements Miss N has made about Barclays treatment 
being prejudicial. That is, Miss N feels she was treated differently due to a protected 
characteristic.  Having closely reviewed Barclays internal notes, I havent seen anything that 
shows Miss N was treated any different because of a protected characteristic. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC should: 
- Refund all the money Barclays withheld from Miss Ns accounts, if it hasnt done so 
already. I understand Barclays has agreed to do this by bank transfer
- Pay Miss N 8% simple interest on the portion of money which belonged to her and is 
separate to that which was sent by her partners relative in December 2020. This 
should be paid from 14 February 2021 up until the money is paid back or when it was 
paid to Miss N
- Pay Miss N £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to put things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman