DRN-4317765
The complaint
Miss C complains about Motors Insurance Company Limited trading as Car Care Plan 
Insurance (MICL) and the deductions theyve applied to the settlement theyve paid, 
following the claim she made on her GAP insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2022, Miss C purchased a new, used car. As part of this purchased, Miss C 
paid for a GAP insurance policy, underwritten by MICL.
Unfortunately, in early 2023, Miss Cs car was deemed a total loss, and she received a total 
loss settlement through her own, separate motor insurance policy. But this settlement was 
less than the amount she paid for the car and so, she contacted MICL to make a claim on 
her GAP insurance policy for the difference.
MICL accepted Miss Cs claim, and they paid her £2,079. But Miss C was unhappy with this 
payment, as it included over £1,500 worth of deductions that she thought were applied 
unfairly. So, she raised a complaint, asking for the payment to be increased.
MICL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought Miss Cs claim had been 
settled in line with the terms and conditions of the GAP insurance policy she held. So, they 
didnt think they needed to do anything more. Miss C remained unhappy with this response, 
so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought the payment 
MICL made was a fair one, that fell in line with the terms of the policy. And they were 
satisfied the payment reflected the financial information shown in the vehicle order form and 
vehicle sales invoice. So, they didnt think MICL needed to do anything more.
Miss C didnt agree. She maintained her belief that, as a consumer, the policy didnt provide 
her with the cover that she felt it was intended for. So, she maintained her position that the 
payment included deductions that were unreasonable, and she wanted MICL to increase the 
amount she received. As Miss C didnt agree, the complaint has bee passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Miss C. I dont doubt Miss C 
paid for the GAP insurance policy believing that, should her car be deemed a total loss, the 
policy would cover the difference between the total loss payment her insurance company 
issued and the total amount she paid out to purchase the car. So, when Miss C received a 
payment from MICL and it included deductions that equated to a significant amount, I can 
understand why shed feel as though she had been left at a financial loss unfairly.
But for me to say MICL should do something more, such as pay Miss C an additional 
amount, I first need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be 
satisfied that, when calculating the payment Miss C received, they failed to act in line with 
the terms and conditions of the GAP insurance policy she held. Or, if I think they did act 
within these, Id need to be satisfied they acted unfairly in some other way. And in this 
situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Miss C held. And these explain Following 
the total loss of your vehicle during the period of insurance we will pay the difference  up to 
the sum insured  between the insured value and the purchase price of your vehicle as 
confirmed in the net sales invoice.
And I can see within the same document that purchase price is defined as confirmed in the 
net sales invoice which includes delivery, factory fitted accessories and dealer fitted options 
but excludes any insurance premiums. We exclude all deposit allowances, discounts, 
rebates, concessions, cashbacks, incentive and contributions. We also exclude new vehicle 
registration fees, road fund license fee, number places, warranty costs, fuel, paintwork 
protection applications, other extras, arrears or negative equity. 
So, I think the terms make it clear there were exclusions applicable to the purchase price 
that would be used to calculated Miss Cs payment. And these exclusions are also set out 
clearly within the Insurance Product Information Document sent to Miss C alongside the 
GAP insurance terms and conditions, under the what is not insured section. 
Ive seen the sales invoice. And Ive seen it lists the total gross vehicle selling price as 
£27,773.00. But I can see that this price included a total of £1,594.00 worth of costs, that all 
fall under the exclusions listed in the term Ive quoted above. As these costs fall under the 
exclusions set out within the terms of the policy, I dont think I can say MICL have acted 
outside of the terms, or unfairly, when deducting these costs from the overall settlement they 
paid to Miss C.
Once these deductions were applied, it meant Miss Cs selling price as detailed within the 
net sales invoice was £26,179.00. And when Miss Cs payment of £24,100 after the 
applicable excess, from her motor insurer is subtracted, this leaves a total settlement of 
£2,079.00. And this is the amount MICL paid to Miss C. So, based on the above, Im 
satisfied the payment MICL made is a fair one, that has been calculated correctly and fairly. 
And so, I dont think MICL need to do anything more on this occasion.
I understand this isnt the outcome Miss C was hoping for. And I recognise it leaves Miss C 
at what she feels is an unreasonable financial loss. But, while I do understand why Miss C 
feels as though the policy she took out isnt fit for the purposes she intended, I do think the 
terms and conditions, as well as the associated policy documentation, made it reasonably 
clear that there would be exclusions applied when determining the purchase price of the car 
and so, the payment she would receive. And I wouldve expected Miss C to ensure she 
understood the limitations of the policy before paying for it. So, while I do recognise Miss Cs 
unhappiness and her reasoning for this, I dont think this impacts the decision Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint about Motors Insurance Company Limited trading as Car Care Plan Insurance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman