DRN-2573538
The complaint
 In the circumstances I think it is reasonable to have expected Mr W to clarify this given this 
was an execution only account and he didnt have the information he needed. I think it is 
reasonable to have expected him to make further enquiries as to when he could sell the 
units, such as checking the prospectus.
What happened
 In February 2020 Mr W decided he wanted to carry out a purchase of 2,252.929 units in the 
Legal & General US Index Fund (L&G Index Fund) at a unit cost of 665.8 pence per unit - a 
total cost of £15,000. The trade date was 21 February 2020 and the settlement date was 27 
February 2020 - Mr W sold the units on that day for a total of slightly more than £13,000 as a 
result of a drop in the unit price.
He had tried to sell the units the previous day but had been unable to do so because the 
trade hadnt settled. He complained to HLAM because he was unhappy that the information 
that he was given about the fund purchase didnt inform him that he wouldnt be able to sell 
his units until four business days after the trade date.
In its response to the complaint HLAM explained that when dealing with Unit Trusts and 
OEICs (funds) it submits client orders and must wait for the fund manager to return the 
proceeds. It said this is usually received four working days after the point of sale at which 
time the sale settles and that it isnt until the settlement date that funds are available to 
withdraw.
HLAM referred to Section A19 of its terms and conditions which it said had further 
information on general settlement although it accepted this didnt explicitly state that funds 
take four working days to settle. But it said the Help section of its website does state that 
the settlement period is typically four working days. Mr W didnt agree that HLAM provided 
the information it shouldve done.
I issued a provisional decision, the key points from which are as follows:
HLAM provide an execution-only service so any decisions to trade are Mr Ws 
responsibility. But HLAM needs to be aware of the information needs of its clients 
and provide information that is clear fair and not misleading.
HLAMs Help section provides information about settlement but only in relation to 
sales, not purchases. So, whilst it does refer to settlement in four working days for 
funds it is not clear this relates to purchases as well as sales.
Section A19 of HLAMs terms and conditions, which HLAM relies upon, provides no 
timescale and in any case only refers to purchasing stock not funds.
Section A14 of the terms and conditions does give a timescale for stock trades but 
the following section which sets out the terms for fund trades has no details of 
settlement times.
HLAM has said it cant be definitive about settlement of fund trades in the same way 
as stock trades, but Mr Ws point is it provides no information about settlement of 
fund purchases. 
However, Im not persuaded that it was reasonable for Mr W to have thought there 
was no period between when he purchased and when he could sell. 
The KIID directs the client to the fund prospectus and this was available to Mr W to 
consider.
The prospectus did include information about there being a settlement period of four 
days for purchases and Mr W should have considered this.
I am not persuaded he wouldnt have invested in the L& G Index fund even if he had 
been aware there was a four-day settlement period, as the price had been trending 
upwards since the beginning of February 2020.
Although I upheld the complaint on the basis that I didnt think HLAM had provided clear 
information I didnt make any award because I thought Mr W should have been aware from 
the prospectus that he wouldnt be able to sell for four days and in any case, thought he 
would have invested anyway.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding and providing further information. HLAM 
said it agreed with my provisional decision and had taken on board the comments I had 
made. Mr W didnt agree with my provisional decision. He provided a detailed response 
which I have considered, but the key points were:
After considering the literature from HLAM he had checked the Help section and was 
satisfied that settlement related to withdrawing money only.
He didnt seek out the prospectus because he didnt have any further doubts.
Information as to a fund characteristic, such as the fact they should not be traded in 
the way he intended, should be made clear.
Much greater prominence needs to be given to the fund settlement period and the 
fund fact sheet he has provided from another provider which clearly identified a 
settlement period of four days for buy and sell is more in keeping with the level of 
information consumers should expect.
He certainly wouldnt have chosen to trade in the fund if he had been aware of a four-
day settlement period and my finding he would have done is in effect saying he is 
lying.
Mr W provided a detailed explanation of his thinking at the time of purchase of the L & G 
Index fund which I have considered but havent set out as I dont think this is necessary. In 
answer to a question I put he explained that his expectation in terms of when he could sell 
the fund was when this appeared in his account which, from his previous experience, was 
two days. He said the fund was visible on his account on 24 March 2020.
Mr W then provided further comments in which he referred to some changes HLAM had 
made to the information in its Help section of its website but which he thought didnt clear 
matters up. He said he wanted to make sure that what happened to him didnt happen to 
others.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not persuaded to change the findings set out in my provisional 
decision. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr W.
I note his most recent email and his comments about what he considers ongoing issues with 
the information provided by HLAM. I acknowledge he wants to try and make sure what 
happened to him doesnt happen to anyone else. However, my role is to consider whether 
HLAM did anything wrong insofar as his individual complaint is concerned and it isnt 
appropriate for me to look beyond that.
 
I am satisfied that the information HLAM provided itself through its terms and conditions and 
Help section didnt provide information as to when a fund could be sold after purchase.
Mr W has referred to the fund fact sheet and argues this should have provided clear 
information about this and has referred to what other businesses provide about the sale of 
units in the fund. However, I dont think this takes matters any further forward, given I have 
already found that HLAM didnt provide information about when the fund could be sold and 
upheld the complaint on that basis.
However, I didnt make any award as Mr W could have found out when he would be able to 
sell the units if he had considered the prospectus. Mr W has said that he didnt see the need 
to consider the prospectus because he was satisfied by the information provided by HLAM. 
If HLAM had provided information showing the period before he could sell after purchase of 
units in a fund was two days, then I think it would have been reasonable for him to have 
relied on this. But that isnt what it did. Rather it provided no information as to when Mr W 
would be able to sell the units he purchased.
Mr W has said he expected to be able to sell when the trade appeared in his account, which 
he says was 24 February 2020. Mr W says this is because this is what has happened with 
previous trades. However, Im not persuaded it was reasonable for him to rely on 
assumptions as to when he would be able to sell the units based on previous trades he 
made. If he was able to sell two days after purchase this would indicate these trades were in 
stocks not funds. Fund trades and stock trades are not the same, as the terms and 
conditions make clear - given they are referred to separately.
In the circumstances I think it is reasonable to have expected Mr W to clarify this given this 
was an execution-only account and he didnt have the information he needed. I think it is 
reasonable to have expected him to make further enquiries as to when he could sell the 
units, such as checking the prospectus.
Given I am of the view that Mr W should have made further enquiries about when he could 
sell units in the fund - and that if he had done so he would have been aware he couldnt sell 
for four days - I dont have to address the issue of whether he would have gone ahead with 
the trade in any event. However, as Mr W has commented on my findings on that issue, I 
think it is appropriate for me to address what he has said.
I am sorry if he thought I was suggesting he was lying about not going ahead if he had 
known he wouldnt be able to sell for four days. It wasnt my intention to suggest this, but I 
need to consider all the available information, and the possibility that what Mr W has told me 
about what he would have done is based on hindsight.
I acknowledge what he has said about what was happening in the markets at the time due to 
the pandemic and I accept this may have been a consideration when investing. But he has 
also referred to turbulence in the markets being calmed by announcements from the UK and 
US governments and that he was relying on such announcements.So although he has referred to having comfort in the belief he could minimise his loss and 
sell if the markets did turn, Im not satisfied he was of the view he might have to sell after 
only two days such that if he had been made aware he could not sell for four days, this 
would have prevented him from investing in the fund.
 
It is also of note that he didnt sell after two days despite the fund dropping in price from the 
day he invested. Despite the significant drop in price at the time the trade first appeared in 
his account on 24 February 2020 he only attempted to sell his units two days later, on 26 
February 2020 - only one day before his trade settled and he was able to sell. 
In the circumstances Im still not persuaded that he wouldnt have decided to go ahead with 
the trade if he had known he would not be able to sell for four days. I dont think Mr W has 
sought to mislead me, but I do think he has told me what he thinks he would have done with 
the benefit of hindsight rather than what he would necessarily have done at the time of 
purchasing units in the fund.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint but make no award, for the reasons I have explained above and in 
my provisional decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021. 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman