DRN-2622620
The complaint
Mrs P doesnt think Next Retail Limited acted responsibly when approving her account, and 
she doesnt think its fair they registered a default against her.
What happened
Mrs P opened an account with Next in 2008, with an initial credit limit of £900. The credit 
limit was gradually increased until 2013, when it stood at £5,000. In 2017 Mrs P fell into 
financial difficulties and arranged a payment plan. Next stopped all interest and charges. 
The payment plan continued until June 2019, when Mrs P didnt pay the agreed payment. 
Because of this, Next cancelled the payment plan. Another payment plan wasnt set up 
because Next couldnt speak to Mrs P to confirm her income and expenditure. And the 
account was defaulted on 13 August 2019. On 27 August 2019 Mrs P repaid the full 
outstanding balance on the account.
Mrs P complained that Next defaulted her account on 13 August 2019 without telling her 
what they were going to do first. Shes also complained that Next approved the account with 
a credit limit of £10,000  she said she wasnt working and had no income. But Next didnt 
think theyd done anything wrong. So Mrs P brought her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, when the account was originally opened, it was with a £900 credit 
limit. But, because of the time thatd passed, the paperwork for the account opening was no 
longer available. But she thought it was likely that Mrs P provided details of her income and 
expenditure, and that Next verified this as well as carrying out a credit check.
The investigator also said that every credit limit increase was approved based on how Mrs P 
had conducted her account, and on the information on her credit file. Which the investigator 
thought was reasonable. And she said Mrs P had managed her account with a £5,000 credit 
limit from 2013 to 2017 without any problem. So she didnt think that Next had acted 
unreasonably when initially approving the account, or when approving any limit increases.
The investigator detailed the actions Next had taken when Mrs P fell into financial difficulties 
 agreeing a payment plan, renewing this on three occasions, and trying unsuccessfully to 
set up a new plan when Mrs P failed to make the agreed payments. She also said that Next 
had sent Mrs P a default notice on 16 July 2019  saying that, unless the outstanding £166 
was paid by 13 August 2019, the account would be defaulted. And, when this wasnt paid by 
the agreed date, Next defaulted the account. So the investigator thought Next had followed 
their default process correctly and didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mrs P didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she never received any letters from 
Next. Shes also said that its very strange a company would give someone with no earnings 
a limit of over £10k even if they are saying its gradual. Mrs P said she never asked for a 
credit limit increase, and she feels that most of the money she owed Next was postage and 
interest, not for goods received. 
Because the outstanding balance with Next was paid off in full, Mrs P thinks that Next should 
remove the default from her credit file  its affected her and her family massively, and its 
unfair that she s in the same position she wouldve been if the outstanding balance hadnt 
been paid. So shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen that Mrs P opened her account with Next in September 2008 and was approved for 
a credit limit of £900. Her account was kept under review and, in September 2009 the credit 
limit was increased to £2,000. Further credit limit increases happened in October 2010 (to 
£3,600) and March 2013 (to £5,000). Im aware Mrs P has said Next increased her credit 
limit to £10,000; but Ive not seen anything to show me that was the case  her credit limit 
never exceeded £5,000.
Next arent able to provide the information they checked at the time they initially approved 
Mrs Ps account. And, because of the time thats passed since the account was opened, I 
wouldnt necessarily expect them to still have this paperwork. But this doesnt mean they 
didnt do any checks when the account was applied for.
Next have said they checked the credit reference agencies to assess Mrs Ps credit 
worthiness. Its in Nexts interest to do this, because they wouldnt want to offer credit to 
someone who was unable to repay from the outset. So Im happy that Next wouldve 
completed checks when they approved the account for Mrs P. And Mrs P would also have 
declared an income when she applied  had she said she had no income, its highly likely 
that her application wouldve been declined for the same reasons above.
When considering credit limit increases, Next have said they considered how Mrs P 
conducted her account, as well as the information from the credit reference agencies. And 
Ive seen from Nexts file notes that Mrs Ps credit score was reviewed on a monthly basis.
Given this, I dont think Next have done anything wrong when they approved the account 
initially, or when they approved the credit limit increases. And Mrs P always had the option to 
tell Next she didnt want her credit limit to be increased, and to ask for it to be reduced.
Looking at how Mrs P conducted her account, Ive seen that her outstanding balance 
remained below £1,200 (usually substantially lower) from when she opened the account until 
March 2015. It was at this point Mrs P started to order more goods. And she maintained 
payments on the account until April 2017. In July 2017 she went on a payment plan. 
Given the conduct of the account, this shows that Mrs P was able to maintain payments with 
no problem until 2017. And Ive not seen that she was reliant on other lending to be able to 
do so. So this satisfies me that Next acted reasonably in approving the account and the 
credit limit increases.Ive noted Mrs Ps comment that most of the money she owed Next was interest and 
charges, and not for goods ordered. But, having seen how she used the account, I cant 
agree with this - between when the account opened and June 2017, Mrs P ordered multiple 
items using the account on an almost monthly basis. So, while some of the balance would 
be interest and charges, a lot of it would be goods ordered. 
Mrs P had financial difficulties in 2017 and Next agreed a short-term payment plan. They 
also suspended all interest and charges. The payment plan was renewed several times until 
2019, when Next suggested a long-term payment plan would be best for Mrs P. But to do 
this they needed to confirm Mrs Ps income and expenditure  this was so any payment plan 
would be both affordable and sustainable. But, despite arranging to speak to Mrs P on more 
than one occasion about this, Mrs P never provided Next with the information they needed.
When Mrs P failed to maintain payments on the short-term payment plan, Next wrote to her. 
This letter, dated 1 July 2019, was sent to Mrs Ps postal address - the one Next had been 
using since the account opened. This letter explained the payment plan had been cancelled, 
that the £241 arrears were due immediately, and that (if Mrs P didnt contact them within 14-
days) a Default Notice would be issued.
Mrs P didnt contact Next and, on 16 July 2019, they issued the Default Notice. Ive seen that 
this was also sent to Mrs Ps postal address. This letter explained to Mrs P that if she didnt 
pay £166 by 13 August 2019, a default would be issued and recorded with the credit 
reference agencies. Mrs P didnt make the payment on time, and the default was issued.
Mrs P has said she never received either of these letters. But Ive seen they were sent to the 
correct address. I dont know why Mrs P didnt receive them, but I cant hold Next 
responsible for any failing within the postal service. Im satisfied that Next followed the 
correct process for issuing a default.
Mrs P has also said that, because she cleared the account balance in full at the end of 
August 2019, the default shouldve been removed from her record  its unfair that shes 
being treated the same as someone who didnt pay the amount they owed.
The default was correctly issued, and its right this should be registered. But Mrs P isnt 
being treated the same as someone who didnt pay the amount they owed  credit reference 
agencies will also record that the default has been satisfied and the date this happened. 
And, when deciding to lend, other lenders will take this information into account when 
making their decisions.
So, for the reasons stated, I dont think Next have done anything wrong, and I wont be 
asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint about Next Retail Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman