DRN-3160776
The complaint
Mr P complains about a car he acquired using finance provided by BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited  trading as ALPHERA Financial Services (BMWFS). 
He says the car suffers from a tyre skipping issue at low speeds.
What happened
Around November 2020 Mr P acquired a used car, funded in part by a hire purchase 
agreement with BMWFS. The car was around 18 months old and had covered around 9,286 
miles. The cash price of the car was £27,291.
Shortly after acquiring it, Mr P said he noticed the car making a dragging noise when 
manoeuvring with the steering at full lock. Mr P discussed this with various parties including 
a manufacturers garage. Mr P was told this was tyre skipping and was a characteristic of 
the car.
At the end of March 2021 the car was taken to the manufacturers garage to inspect  but no 
repair was carried out. Mr P says he was told this was a common issue and a change of 
tyres might make the problem less noticeable. At this point the car had covered around 
13,678 miles.
Mr P complained to BMWFS and asked to reject the car. It sent him its final response in May 
2021. This said, in summary, that the tyre skipping issue wasnt a defect and was a 
characteristic of the car. It said this meant at low speeds, in certain weather and under 
certain steering conditions, a slight juddering might be experienced. It said this didnt affect 
the cars safety or performance and so it wouldnt allow Mr P to reject it.
Mr P remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. He provided various 
pieces of information about the problem and sent in several decisions from this service. 
While investigating, we asked Mr P to provide some evidence of the problem. In July 2021 
Mr P told us he had changed the tyres the previous month and due to this, and the weather, 
the car was not experiencing the issue.
An investigator issued their opinion on the complaint and didnt uphold it. They said, in 
summary, that they accepted the car had likely experienced the issue Mr P told us about. 
But, he said there was little to show the severity of the problem. So, he didnt think complaint 
should be upheld.
Mr P disagreed. He pointed to other decisions this service had made and wanted to know 
why his was different. He said any case where the car was experiencing this issue should be 
upheld. 
Out investigator said this didnt change their opinion. So, the case was passed for an 
ombudsmans decision.
While the case was waiting to be allocated, Mr P said the issue had returned. He sent in a 
couple of videos. And he later said that he had to sell the car at a loss due to the issue.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr P complains about issues with a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering 
into consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied 
I can consider Mr Ps complaint about BMWFS. 
I should point out that in addition to the tyre skipping, Mr P has mentioned other problems 
the car had that have mostly been repaired. These issues do not form part of this decision 
and so I havent considered these further.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  BMWFS here  has a responsibility 
to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable 
person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, Ill consider that while the car Mr P acquired was used, it was 
only around 18 months old and had done under 10,000 miles. While I dont think a 
reasonable person would have the same expectations as a brand new car, given the above 
and that the car cost over £27,000, I think they would still have high standards for it. I think 
they would expect it to be in good condition and to have trouble free motoring for a 
significant period.
Mr P has provided a lot of background to this case. This included other decisions our service 
has made, views by other ADR bodies and information from the manufacturer and other 
parties about the tyre skipping. So, Im satisfied both Mr P and BMWFS are well versed in 
this particular issue and so I dont intend to go into detail about the background or causes 
here. Rather, I will just point out that what Mr P describes is a known issue with certain cars 
from this manufacturer. 
It isnt in dispute in this case that Mr Ps car was suffering from this issue. I say this as Mr P, 
the manufacturer and BMWFS all acknowledge this. I appreciate Mr P thinks that because 
this is the case, his complaint should automatically be upheld. But, I dont agree. What I 
need to consider is whether or not the car supplied to Mr P was of satisfactory quality. Just 
because the car was experiencing this issue doesnt mean this was the case. Given I accept 
the issue was present, what I need to consider is the severity of the problem.
Ive carefully thought about this. Mr P says the issue mainly happened while reversing. He 
said the car made a horrendous dragging noise and caused noticeable tyre wear. But, I 
also need to consider that he later told us a change of tyres and the warmer weather had 
stopped the problem. So, I think its fair to say that the issue was intermittent.
Ive also considered that, while Mr P changed the tyres, he didnt provide any photos or other 
evidence of the old ones to show uneven or premature wear. The invoice from the garages 
inspection doesnt mention this, and neither does the invoice for the tyres.Mr P sent in videos which he says showed the problem. These are taken from the drivers 
seat, but they only show part of the steering wheel and a small portion of the dashboard. 
Having watched and listened to these several times I do not agree with Mr P that these show 
any issues.
Ive thought about the other decisions and information that Mr P sent in. But, its important to 
stress that I am only considering the specific circumstances of Mr Ps complaint and the 
severity of the problem with his individual car.
Ive very carefully thought about everything here. And I appreciate there is somewhat a lack 
of evidence in relation to this complaint. But, from what Ive seen, Im satisfied on balance 
that in this specific case its most likely the issue Mr P had with the car didnt affect the ability 
to manoeuvre or park it and it didnt affect the safety or general use of it. Im also satisfied 
the problem was intermittent and didnt seem to be an issue in the warmer months. I also 
havent seen any evidence that it was causing issues with the tyres.
I want to reassure Mr P that Ive carefully considered everything hes sent in and told us 
about this complaint. But thinking about all of this, Im satisfied, on balance, that its most 
likely the car supplied to Mr P was of satisfactory quality  despite this issue. It follows that I 
dont think BMWFS need to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman