DRN-2028387
The complaint
Mrs P says Barclays Bank UK PLC has not fairly compensated her for a mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy sold to her with a credit card.
What happened
In August 2019 Mrs P complained to Barclays about the PPI policy.
In November 2019 Barclays wrote to Mrs P upholding her complaint. Barclays offered her a 
total of £439.17 compensation and sent Mrs P a cheque for this amount. The offer included 
compensatory interest of 8% simple for the time Mrs P had been out of pocket. My 
understanding is the cheque was not cashed and has now been cancelled.
Mrs P refused the offer of compensation from Barclays and asked this service to step in.
Mrs P said the offer was derisory and didnt reflect the time she had spent taking the 
complaint to Barclays. She said she had issues making her complaint on Barclays website 
and had to supply details of the policy herself.
 
An adjudicator from this service said they thought the offer was fair. And they said that if    
Mrs P now wanted to accept the offer Barclays should update the 8% compensatory interest 
and issue a new cheque.
Mrs P didnt agree with the adjudicators findings.
Barclays said it wouldnt update the 8% compensatory interest.
The complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Barclays has agreed to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont look 
into how the PPI policy came to be sold to Mrs P. In this decision Ive looked at Barclays 
offer and whether it represents fair compensation.
Ive firstly looked at how Barclays calculated the compensation it offered Mrs P for the      
mis-sale of the policy. 
When a PPI policy is mis-sold Id expect the business to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd be in if the policy had not been sold. To do this Id expect the business to 
refund all the PPI premiums together with any interest and charges incurred due to the PPI 
having been added to the account. And the business would need to add compensatory 
interest for the time the consumer has been out of pocket. The compensatory interest should 
be calculated at 8% simple per year.
Barclays has sent us a copy of its calculations. I can see it refunded all the PPI premiums 
added to Mrs Ps account totalling £168.46. Barclays also refunded the interest she was 
charged on these premiums, this totalled £28.93. Barclays also refunded £24.00 for charges 
it says were caused by the PPI. And I can see Barclays added interest calculated at 8% 
simple to compensate Mrs P for the time shed not had use of the money. This totalled 
£217.78 net of tax. So altogether Barclays offered Mrs P £439.17.
Looking at the calculations I am satisfied Barclays calculated the compensation fairly and in 
the way Id expect it to. I realise Mrs P has said the offer is derisory but it reflects the actual 
PPI premiums that were charged to the account and puts Mrs P back in the financial position 
shed be in if the PPI hadnt been sold to her. Which is what this service would expect 
Barclays to do.
Ive also thought about what Mrs P has said about the time it took Barclays to uphold her 
complaint and make an offer.
I see Mrs P made her complaint in August 2019 and Barclays acknowledged the complaint 
in the same month. And in September it wrote to Mrs P to provide an update and advise her 
it was experiencing high volumes of PPI complaints and there may be a delay in reaching an 
outcome.
But Barclays wrote to Mrs P in November 2019 upholding the complaint and making an offer 
of compensation.
I dont think Barclays response to Mrs Ps complaint was particularly slow, especially taking 
into account the PPI complaint deadline of August 2019 which led to many businesses 
receiving high volumes of complaints. It received Mrs Ps complaint in August, updated her 
in September that there may be a delay and contacted her with an offer in November.
And I think it is reasonable for Barclays to have asked Mrs P to complete some forms and 
supply it with any documentary evidence she had to support her claim. When making any 
complaint it is expected that it will involve some time and I wouldnt usually make any 
additional award for this.
So in summary I think the offer made by Barclays is fair and was calculated in the way Id 
expect.
In response to our adjudicators findings, Barclays replied that it would not update the 8% 
compensatory interest as Mrs P had not cashed the cheque it sent her.
Barclays should know that to fairly compensate a consumer for the mis-sale of a PPI policy it 
needs to calculate 8% compensatory interest up to the date it makes payment. This is to 
compensate consumers for the time theyve been out of pocket. If Barclays doesnt update 
the offer then it follows that it wont have properly compensated Mrs P.
Mrs P was entitled to refer her complaint to this service if she thought Barclays offer wasnt 
fair. And it is entirely understandable in my view if some consumers are hesitant to cash a 
cheque if they are not happy with the offer made.
So if Mrs P now accepts Barclays offer I direct it to update the offer and pay 8% 
compensatory interest up the date it makes payment. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that the offer made by Barclays Bank UK PLC was fair and calculated in 
the way Id expect.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should update the calculation before making payment to Mrs P.
I make no further award against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman