DRN-1514540
The complaint
Mr L complains Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited took a payment for a motor insurance 
policy, from his account without his agreement. 
What happened
In March 2018 Mr L took out a motor insurance policy. It was arranged by Endsleigh. He 
paid the premium in full using his credit card. Later that month Endsleigh took a further 
payment of about £350 from the same card. Mr L complained that he hadnt agreed to the 
payment.
Endsleigh responded to Mr Ls complaint. It said it had been discovered Mr L had more 
motor incidents recorded against him than had been declared when he took out the cover. It 
also said at that time he had declared an incident as non-fault. But it was recorded by the 
insurer as a fault. Endsleigh said it wrote to him to explain this meant an additional premium 
would be charged. It added that during a later phone call Mr L had agreed to the payment 
being taken from his card. So it didnt uphold his complaint. 
Our Investigator said a call recording showed Mr L had agreed to the payment being taken. 
Mr L didnt accept his findings. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
Mr Ls also complained about how his insurer handled a claim. Endsleighs involved in the 
claim, but the claim is the responsibility of his insurer  a different firm. So that issue is being 
considered in a separate complaint against the insurer. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not making Endsleigh pay Mr L any compensation or do anything 
differently. 
Ive listened to the call recording provided by Endsleigh. Mr L discusses the reasons for the 
additional premium. He tells Endsleigh to use the card details it has on record to take the 
payment. So I cant say Endsleigh did anything wrong by using his card to take the payment.
 
Mr L says the call recording has been edited by Endsleigh to remove a part of the 
conversation  him requesting a refund of part of the additional premium. It seems unlikely to 
me that Endsleigh would do that. So to think it probably did happen Id need to see 
something to support what Mr L says. But he hasnt provided anything. Theres nothing in 
the call that makes me think it was edited. So I cant say Endsleigh edited the recording.  
Mr Ls also complained Endsleigh kept his card details without his permission. Its pointed to 
information provided when he took out the cover. Policy details sent to Mr L says Endsleigh 
will use debit or credit details provided, when taking out the policy, to pay for any outstanding 
payments. That does imply, at least, that card details will be retained. 
In any event I cant see Mr L lost out financially by Endsleigh retaining any details of his 
payment card. They werent misused as far as Im aware. Endsleighs explained to him that it 
only kept partial details to minimise the risk of misuse. Neither can I say Endsleigh has 
caused Mr L any unnecessary distress or inconvenience by holding part of his card details. 
Mr Ls asked that Endsleigh provide a call recording of the sale of the policy. But I havent 
asked for it. I dont think Mr Ls lost out as a result of anything thats happened  financially 
or by being caused unnecessary distress or inconvenience. So even if the call showed he 
hadnt been asked for permission for his card details to be held, I still wouldnt require 
Endsleigh to pay him compensation. 
In response to our Investigators view Mr L asked that it be shown where he had agreed to 
automatic renewal. He also wants to know why he wasnt offered a renewal. It seems these 
issues were raised by him in response to the Investigators explanation that insurance firms 
often retain card details for automatic renewal purposes. It seems the Investigator was 
making a general comment  rather than saying this was the case for Mr L. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think Endsleigh did set up Mr L up for automatic renewal.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making Endsleigh Insurance Services Limited pay Mr L 
any compensation or do anything differently. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman