DRN-3470909
The complaint
Mr G complained that esure Insurance Limited (esure) unfairly settled a fault claim against 
him under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G was involved in a minor accident when his car bumped into a third-party car in a car 
park. The third-party was unable to reverse out of their space, so Mr G reversed first. Mr G 
said his nearside front passenger wing mirror met the third partys offside wing mirror 
causing minor damage.
esure settled the claim paying over £2,200 for the repair costs. Mr G said this was excessive 
as there was only minor damage, so he raised a complaint. Mr G said the third-party claimed 
for damage to the wheel arch that didnt occur. Mr G said at no stage did his car contact the 
third partys wheel arch.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought the claim had been fairly 
settled in line with the policy terms. Mr G disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to 
an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, Ive come to the decision that I dont think esure has done anything wrong, so I 
wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why I think this.
I can see esure has provided an explanation to Mr G on why it took the approach to settle 
the claim for circa £2,200. esure said in relation to the repair costs, the third-party insurer 
has advised us there was damage to the wing mirror, rear quarter panel and rear wheel 
arch. The Claims Department have paid £1,419.83 for the repairs and reimbursed the third 
partys excess of £750. Whilst I appreciate you feel the repair costs are high, the Claims 
Department have reviewed the costs and are satisfied the costs are reasonable for
the damage claimed. As we dont have any evidence of the damage from the scene, were 
unable to dispute the costs. 
Its normal for insurers to choose how they wish to settle a third-party claim in motor claims, 
as delaying this can lead to escalating costs if the third-party insurer decides to take legal 
action. I have checked the policy and I havent read anything in the policy that says the 
esure cant settle the claim as it chooses. So, I have continued to consider whether I think 
esure has settled the claim reasonably and not in a way that unfairly disadvantages Mr G.
I can see Mr G accepted liability for the incident, so the crux of the complaint is over the 
value that esure settled for the third-party claim. The reason Mr G thought the repairs were 
too high was because he disputed the third-partys claim that the wheel arch had been 
damaged by Mr G in the incident. Mr G said the only damage caused was the coming 
together of the wing mirrors.
So, I have looked to see how esure has investigated and concluded on this dispute as this 
seems to be the cause of the different expectation on settlement costs. 
esure said Mr G told us that he didnt have any useable photos from the scene because it 
was sunny and there are shadows on all the photos. In relation to what weve paid, we cant 
dispute any of the damage because we dont have any evidence. Were a RIPE insurer so 
we dont have any reports from the third-party regarding the damage, but were satisfied the 
costs are reasonable at £1419.83 and we cant challenge the excess of £750 that is what the 
third-party set on the policy. We did advise Mr G wed request full documentation from the 
third-party insurer, and we requested images from Mr G on 15th September, but I cant see 
weve received any. I spoke to him about this on our call and he said theyre not useable.
esure explained its decision further as weve accepted liability and Mr G accepts the 
incident happened and it was his fault, we have no option but to settle the third partys costs. 
I dont feel having the engineers report would be of any benefit at this stage because we 
have no evidence to dispute any of the damage claimed other than Mr Gs say so. With or 
without the report, were liable for the costs and Im satisfied this is a decision were entitled 
to make.
I think it is clear there is a disagreement between Mr G and third-party as to whether the 
incident caused the damage to the wheel arch which is what caused the settled cost to be 
higher than what Mr G wouldve expected. I can see that esure has tried to secure evidence 
to support exactly what happened. However, there were no witness statements or 
photographic evidence provided. I think esure has acted reasonably to try and gather any 
relevant information that maybe available.
As no information was available to corroborate Mr Gs or the third-partys testimony, then 
esure has considered the wider circumstances of the claim. esure has explained its decision 
to settle the full value of the third-party claim. esure has said fault for the incident had been 
accepted, so as it didnt have any evidence to support Mr Gs testimony  its judgement was 
that it would be liable for the whole costs anyway.
esure can choose to settle a claim as it sees fit. I think here it has examined the evidence 
and hasnt found sufficient evidence to be able to prove in a court of law that the damage 
wasnt caused in the incident. I think esure has been fair in concluding that if the case was 
put before a court of law, then it was likely a court would decide in favour of the third-party as 
damage to the wheel arch was in close proximity to the damaged wing mirror.
Therefore, based on its experience and judgement, I think esure has reasonably decided to 
settle the whole claim. I think not accepting the claim, would likely have led to additional 
court costs, but would have resulted in the same outcome due to a lack of evidence. So, 
whilst I cant say with certainty how the wheel arch was damaged, I dont think esure has 
acted unfairly as it has settled the case in the most efficient and fair manner.
I have also considered the impact of this outcome on Mr G. Mr G has admitted liability for at 
least part of the claim, so his record would show a fault accident recorded against him. The 
actual settlement value was still relatively low overall, so I dont think this outcome will have 
any additional or significant adverse financial impact on Mr G when it comes to future 
premiums. He will still have a fault claim with a small settlement cost recorded against his 
name. Esure paid Mr G £75 compensation for some communication failings during the claim. I think 
this is fair for the distress and inconvenience caused when it didnt return a call as it 
promised to Mr G and for the long wait times when Mr G tried to call esure.
In summary, I dont uphold this complaint. I dont think esure has acted unfairly, it has settled 
the claim in a reasonable manner.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require esure Insurance Limited to 
do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman