DRN-2147003
The complaint
Mrs P says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs P bought the policy in 2001 in connection with a store card she took out in 2000. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mrs P says she didnt know the PPI had been added to her account, and that she had 
no reason to take it out. Ive noted everything Mrs P has said. Im mindful that these 
events took place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can 
fade over time.
AXAs records show that Mrs P bought the PPI over the phone, some time after shed 
taken out her store card. So on balance I think its likely AXA made Mrs P aware she 
had a choice about buying the PPI, and she chose to take it out. But I can understand 
why Mrs P may no longer remember this, given the amount of time thats passed since 
the policy was sold. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. That means it didnt have to ask about any other means Mrs P might have had to 
cover her repayments.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But its unlikely Mrs P would have been affected by any of the main things 
the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a reasonable 
benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman