DRN-2835576
The complaint
Mrs R and Mr R complain, through a claims management company (CMC) that they were 
given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC because:
They werent given adequate time to reflect on the advice.
Their attitude to risk wasnt fully assessed.
The level of risk in the investment was too high.
Their future needs and objectives werent considered.
They had a low level of disposable income in retirement and it should have been 
apparent there would be a potential need to access the capital during the term of the 
investment.
What happened
In 2007 Mrs R and Mr R sought advice from Lloyds as to investing some of their capital. 
Based on answers they gave to questions in the fact find they were assessed as balanced 
risk investors. They were advised to invest a total of £20,000 in the Balanced Growth 
Portfolio with £6000 being invested jointly through an OEIC and £7,000 each through an 
ISA. These were surrendered in March 2011 when Mr and Mrs R got a total of £21,301 back.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said that Mrs R and Mr R had time to consider the 
advice before investing as they had two meetings with the adviser. It also said that their risk 
appetite had been established based on the questions in the fact find and that the Balanced 
Growth Portfolio had a low/medium risk profile which it said was suitable for first time 
investors. Lloyds said that there no short-term spending needs recorded and after 
investment they still had just short of £54,000 in deposit-based accounts as well as monthly 
disposable income of £532.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and also didnt think it should be upheld. 
She said that just because Mrs R and Mr R had only used deposit-based products in the 
past didnt mean they werent willing to take a broader approach to risk for a limited amount 
of their savings. She said it wouldnt be fair to hold the adviser responsible for them 
spending more of their remaining money than they had intended.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigator. It said Mrs R and Mr R were in new 
circumstances, so it was quite understandable they didnt know what their spending needs 
were when they saw the adviser. The CMC said the adviser should have taken this into 
account and either waited until their position was more certain or advised investing less. The 
CMC also still didnt agree that the recommended fund was appropriate given their lack of 
experience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The CMC has suggested the adviser shouldnt have advised Mrs R and Mr R to invest when 
they did or should have advised them to invest less because they were in new 
circumstances. It has referred to Mr R having recently retired and having received a lump 
sum as a result. It has provided no further information about this such as when Mr R retired 
and what he received as a lump sum, but Im not persuaded in any event that it was 
inappropriate for the adviser to recommend they invest some of their capital at the time 
based on the information he had available.
As to the amount invested, the fact find shows that Mrs R and Mr R had £55,000 in joint 
savings and £9,669 each in Mini Cash ISAs  so total capital of over £74,000. Im not 
satisfied that advising Mrs R and Mr R to invest £20,000 of this was too much. I 
acknowledge that the suitability letter refers to them intending to spend £5,000 on a new car 
and £10,000 on a holiday in 2008 to see family. But allowing for this they would still have 
capital available, after investment, of over £39,000. There is nothing to suggest that they 
would need access to capital for any other anticipated outlay that the adviser should have 
taken account of. He cant be held responsible for them subsequently spending more than 
they indicated they were going to. 
The fact find also recorded they had net disposable income of £550 each month. I note that 
the CMC has said Mrs R and Mr R dont agree they had an adequate disposable income 
because Mr Rs income had gone down after retirement. 
However, Mr Rs income as shown in the fact find is recorded as being from his state 
pension and an occupational pension. So, the adviser calculated the net disposable income 
based on Mr Rs post retirement income in any event. There is no persuasive evidence that 
suggests the adviser has miscalculated the monthly disposable income. Even if he did there 
is nothing to show he should have been aware that Mrs and Mr R didnt have a net 
disposable income of £550. 
In short, on the face of the evidence Mrs R and Mr R were left with a significant amount of 
available capital after investment and taking account of known expenditure. In addition, they 
had a reasonable net disposable income each month. Im satisfied they werent advised to 
invest too much based on the information the adviser was provided with. 
Turning to the suitability of the recommended fund Lloyds has said that the Balanced Growth 
Portfolio had a low/medium risk profile. Im not persuaded this was an unsuitable investment 
for Mrs R and Mr R in the circumstances. It was split almost equally between equities and 
bonds and I agree with Lloyds this was suitable for first time investors such as Mrs R and Mr 
R.
I note the argument put forward by the CMC as to Mrs R and Mr R being wrongly 
categorised as balanced risk investors. It has pointed to certain of the questions and 
answers in the fact find that were used to assess their risk appetite and suggests these 
suggest people with a more cautious attitude to risk.
However, I think the questions and answers need to be considered as a whole. I dont think it 
is possible to reach any conclusion based on only some of the answers that were given. Im 
not satisfied that its possible to say it is more likely than not Mr and Mrs R were wrongly 
categorised as balanced risk investors based on the information available. .
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021. 
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman