DRN-2404813
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy about the timescale put in place by Legal & General Home 
Finance Limited (L&G) for porting a lifetime mortgage product onto a new property. Mr S, 
who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that it wasnt until the sale of their existing 
house and purchase of a new one was progressing that L&G made him and Mrs S aware 
that the porting process would take 12 weeks. As a result, Mr and Mrs S redeemed their 
lifetime mortgage (incurring an early repayment charge (ERC) and later took out a new one. 
They would like L&G to reimburse them for the expense of this, and to compensate them for 
trouble and upset.
What happened
In 2017 Mr and Mrs S took out a lifetime equity release mortgage with L&G. They borrowed 
£16,000 at a fixed rate of 5.18%, although the loan had a maximum drawdown facility of 
£18,300. In November 2019 they borrowed a further £2,000 at an interest rate of 3.73%.
Clause 13 of the mortgage offer explained that if the mortgage was repaid an ERC might 
apply. Clause 7 of the offer explained that the mortgage could be transferred, subject to 
meeting L&Gs criteria.
Moving home
If you move home you can transfer this lifetime mortgage to a new property that is 
acceptable to us and meets our lending criteria at the time, but you must tell us in 
advance. If you choose to repay the amount owed in full at this time you may have to 
pay an Early Repayment Charge as described in Section 13.
Your ability to move home will depend on any equity left after the sale of your 
property, which you may need for your new property. If there is insufficient equity 
because of the effect of falling house prices and/or accumulated rolled-up interest 
you may not be able to move.
If you ask us to transfer this lifetime mortgage, we may instruct an independent 
valuer to value your new property. You will have to pay all the fees, for example, the 
Valuation Fee, a Property Transfer Fee, all legal fees and any moving expenses.
If you move home, we may require you to repay a part of the amount owed if the 
amount owed exceeds the amount that we would agree to lend to a new borrower (of 
equivalent age) in comparable circumstances. If you repay the amount we require, 
you will not have to pay an Early Repayment Charge. If you have Inheritance 
Protection and have to repay part of the amount owed, you may choose to reduce or 
remove the Protected Percentage.
If you move home and we do not give our permission, for example if the new property 
is not acceptable to us, you must repay the amount owed and you may have to pay 
an Early Repayment Charge as described in Section 13.
In late 2019 Mr and Mrs S decided to move home and accepted a binding offer on their 
property on 18 December 2019 with a completion date of 4 February 2020. Theyd seen a 
property they liked, which I will call TS, but had been outbid on that property. 
Mr S contacted L&G on 11 January 2020 and was sent a redemption quote dated 
14 January 2020. At that point Mr and Mrs S werent thinking of porting their mortgage.
On 29 January 2020 Mr S spoke to L&G to enquire about the porting process. Unfortunately, 
the sale of Mr and Mrs Ss property fell through, but on 31 January 2020 they accepted an 
offer from a buyer who was looking for a completion date of 27 March 2020 (that was 
changed on 11 March 2020 to 24 April 2020).
On 11 February 2020 Mr and Mrs S agreed to buy a property I will refer to as HP. Mr S 
spoke to L&G and said that, although the initial plan had been to redeem the mortgage in 
full, he and Mrs S now wanted to port the mortgage. Mr S was told that sale and purchase 
would need to be simultaneous, that the new property would need to meet L&Gs criteria and 
that a valuation would be required. Mr S was asked to provide the memorandum of sale with 
particulars of the new property so that the process could be started and was given the email 
address for this. 
But Mr and Mrs S didnt provide any property details. They decided instead to repay the 
mortgage in full and take out a 0% finance loan for a new kitchen at HP. They didnt call L&G 
back about this, because at that time no moving dates had been agreed.
However, it came to light that there were issues with the sellers legal title to HP, and this 
was subject to court proceedings. Mr and Mrs S were put off by this but they found out that 
TS was once again available. As they had been the second-highest bidders, their offer was 
accepted. But TS needed a lot of work, and so Mr and Mrs S wanted to port the mortgage, 
which would free up more of their sale proceeds to go towards the cost of the refurbishment.
On 11 March 2020 Mr S confirmed to L&G that the property onto which the mortgage was to 
be ported was TS. A telephone appointment with a porting specialist was arranged for the 
following day.
Mr S spoke to L&G on 12 March 2020 and during this call he was told the porting process 
can take about 12 weeks to complete. Mr S told L&G on that, as a previous sale of TS had 
fallen through, the paperwork was all in place and his solicitor had said that completion 
should be achievable within 4-5 weeks, rather than the 12 weeks L&G had said this would 
take. L&G issued documentation to Mr and Mrs S setting out the costs involved in porting, 
and with an estimated completion date of 29 May 2020. On 19 March 2020 Mr and Mrs S 
paid the valuation and porting application fees (which L&G has since refunded).
What happened next could not have been predicted either by Mr and Mrs S or L&G. Due to 
the pandemic, the UK went into lockdown on 23 March 2020, as a result of which it wasnt 
possible for L&G to carry out a valuation of TS. L&G explained this to Mr and Mrs S in an 
email dated 2 April 2020. In addition, the Land Registry was closed, and so L&G explained 
that it wouldnt be able to agree to the porting of the mortgage by 24 April 2020. 
Mr S complained to L&G. Mr S says that there was a lack of transparency by L&G about the 
timescale involved, and a lack of urgency when he spoke to its staff. As a result, Mr S 
argues that it wasnt possible to manage the expectations of the parties in the property chain 
so that a simultaneous completion could be arranged, enabling the mortgage to be ported.
In its final response dated 29 April 2020, L&G acknowledged that when Mr S had made 
general enquiries about the porting process in January and February 2020, L&G could have 
explained the timescale involved. L&G offered Mr and Mrs S compensation of £75 for this. 
In a second final response letter, L&G noted Mr Ss dissatisfaction with the level of service 
hed have received, but didnt think any further redress was appropriate.I am told the sale completed on 24 April 2020. Land Registry records show that the sale was 
registered on 9 June 2020 at a price of £168,025 (this is the date recorded on the Register, 
which may be due to delays caused by the pandemic). Records show that Mr and Mrs S 
completed on their purchase of TS on 23 June 2020 at a price of £115,500. They redeemed 
their mortgage to L&G, repaying approximately £24,000, including an ERC of £4,243.62.  
Mr and Mrs S have now taken out another lifetime mortgage, at a cost of £2,175.50 in fees. 
On 2 August 2020 Mr and Mrs S complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service about the 
poor service theyd been given by L&G. Mr S said that, if theyd been given clear advice at 
the start about the length of time the porting process would take, it would have been possible 
to arrange for a simultaneous completion of sale and purchase, thus avoiding the need to 
redeem the L&G mortgage. 
To settle the complaint, Mr S said that L&G should reimburse the ERC of £4,243.62, as well 
as the costs involved in taking out the new equity release mortgage of £2,175.50. Mr S has 
also explained that hes incurred considerable cost on credit cards for refurbishment of TS, 
because he wasnt able to get an interest-free loan for a new kitchen.
An investigator looked at the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
acknowledged the difficult position Mr and Mrs S were in, but overall, he didnt think L&G 
had done anything wrong. 
The investigator noted that L&G had accepted it could have given Mr S the timescale for a 
porting application during the calls on 29 January 2020 or 11 February 2020. But the 
investigator was also satisfied that, even if Mr and Mrs S had decided to go ahead with their 
purchase of HP, this would still have been impacted by lockdown on 23 March 2020. But it 
wasnt in fact until 12 March 2020 that L&G had been given full details of TS, at which point 
the porting process could begin.
The investigator accepted Mr and Mrs S were then in a difficult position, but ultimately the 
decision to sell their existing property before purchasing the new one was Mr and Mrs Ss 
choice. As a result, he didnt think the ERC had been unfairly charged.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings, and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Hes made some further points, which I will summarise.
Mr S says that, in retrospect, if he and Mrs S had researched TS more carefully and realised 
how much work was needed on the property and how expensive this would be, they would 
probably have stayed with the purchase of HP, notwithstanding the legal issues affecting 
that property. But because Mr S didnt know the timescale involved for porting, he agreed a 
completion date of 24 April 2020 with his buyer. Mr S says he thought this would give 
enough time to arrange for the mortgage to be ported.
Mr S acknowledges that if the purchase of HP had gone through, this would not have 
involved any porting of the mortgage. But he says that if L&G had provided full details of the 
porting process from the outset (that is on 29 January 2020 or 11 February 2020), he would 
have been better placed to choose between HP and TS in March 2020. 
Mr S says that the documentation he received from L&G said that  your solicitor will be 
able to advise you about approximately how long the process should take  and his solicitor 
had told him that this would be 4-5 weeks, due to the paperwork for TS having almost been 
completed in December 2019. Mr S says that he incorrectly assumed that this timescale was 
in order, as L&G didnt tell him until March 2020 that there was a 12-week timescale.Mr S says that, as a result of this, he and Mrs S were backed into a corner and left with 
only one option  repayment of the mortgage, with the ERC.
Mr S is also unhappy at the £75 offered by L&G and at the investigators explanation of why 
he thinks this is fair and reasonable.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr S says L&G should have told him in January and 
February 2020 that the timescale for porting the mortgage would be 12 weeks. He says that 
if heand Mrs S had known this, it would have enabled them to negotiate the completion date 
with their buyer and seller.
L&G has accepted that it could have told Mr S during the calls on 29 January 2020 and 11 
February 2020 that there was a 12-week timescale for a porting application. Its offered £75 
compensation for this.
Where a business accepts its made a mistake, I have to look at what would most likely have 
happened if that mistake hadnt have been made. After considering the timeline of events 
carefully, I dont think that things would have been any different. These are my reasons.
The information provided by L&G was clear in that Mr and Mrs S shouldnt commit to 
anything in relation to a sale or purchase until L&G had approved the porting application. 
The porting quote says, on the last page, in a box and in bold type:
Do not commit to the purchase of your new home (sometimes called Exchange 
of Contracts or Concluded Missives) and the sale of your current home until we 
have agreed to the transfer, have sent you the Offer to Transfer letter and the legal 
conveyancing is acceptable to us. 
Mr S has told us that on 11 March 2020 he had agreed with his buyer to set the completion 
date for 24 April 2020. Mr S says that he thought this would be sufficient time to sort out the 
porting of the mortgage. Mr S had already agreed the completion date before he knew there 
was a 12-week timescale. 
I appreciate the documentation says that the solicitors will be able to advise about 
timescales. But this is always subject to L&G being able to complete the work it needs to do 
before consenting to any transfer of the mortgage to a new property.
Im satisfied L&G wasnt told about any issues with HP or that Mr and Mrs S were vacillating 
between going ahead with HP or with TS. The only property details L&G was provided with 
were those of TS on 12 March 2020, after Mr and Mrs S had already agreed a completion 
date of 24 April 2020 with their buyer.
Im not persuaded that, even if Mr and Mrs S had been told in February 2020 about a 
12-week timescale to port the mortgage, this would have caused them to proceed with HP 
(where they were not intending to port the mortgage) rather than TS. Thats because the 
issues with the title to HP were subject to unresolved court proceedings, and it was for this 
reason that Mr S told us he and Mrs S decided not to continue with their purchase of HP. As there didnt appear to be any end date for the court action, I think it was sensible of Mr and 
Mrs S to look at other options, given they already had a buyer for their own property. 
L&G didnt know  and wasnt told  about any of the issues with HP. As far as L&G was 
aware Mr S had made enquiries about porting, and had been given the email address to 
send in further information about this on 11 February 2020. And, as Mr S has told us, after 
that  before the issues with the title were known to them, he and Mrs S decided theyd go 
ahead and purchase HP without porting the mortgage. So there was nothing further for L&G 
to do, unless and until Mr and Mrs S made further contact.
But in any event, I think that even if Mr and Mrs S had been aware on 11 February 2020 of a 
potential 12-week timescale to port the mortgage, it wouldnt have changed their decision not 
to proceed with HP, given the issues with the title and that there was no timescale for this to 
be resolved. 
It wasnt until 11 March 2020 that Mr and Mrs S decided to go ahead with the purchase of 
TS and L&G was first informed of this. At that point, a 12-week timescale would have taken 
the completion date to 3 June 2020, even without the problems caused by the pandemic, 
which were unforeseen and outside the control of L&G. 
Once lockdown happened, L&G explained why it wasnt able to carry out the valuation, and 
that the closure of the Land Registry had halted the conveyancing process. 
I am sure this was a stressful time for Mr and Mrs S, given the lockdown. They must have 
been very worried that they wouldnt be able move.
But overall, Im not persuaded that L&G is responsible for Mr and Mrs Ss decision to fix the 
completion date on their purchase before they were aware of the 12-week timescale. As I 
said above, at the point where (I am told) Mr and Mrs S agreed the completion date with 
their buyer, the 12-week timescale would have run until early June in any event. 
So for those reasons, although I think L&G could have clarified the timescale on 11 February 
2020, I dont think its omission is the reason why Mr and Mrs S repaid their mortgage and 
incurred the ERC, or that it was the driving factor behind their decision to purchase TS rather 
than HP. Given this, Im satisfied the £75 already offered as compensation by L&G is fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to the mistake made by L&G.
In the circumstances, I dont think L&G is required to pay any further compensation to 
Mr and Mrs S. Ive noted what Mr S has told us about having to borrow money from relatives 
and spend on his credit card because he was turned down for a 0% loan for a new kitchen. 
But I dont think L&G can be held responsible for that, or be required to compensate Mr and 
Mrs S for any expenditure theyve incurred on improving the property.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, insofar as Im satisfied the £75 
compensation already offered by Legal & General Home Finance Limited is fair and 
reasonable. I simply leave it to Mr and Mrs S to decide if they want to accept it in full and 
final settlement of their complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman