DRN-2025597
The complaint
Mr M complaint is that Gain Credit LLC  trading as Lending Stream  says he still has an 
outstanding balance on two loans which Mr M says he has repaid as part of a repayment 
plan. 
What happened
Mr M took out six loans with Lending Stream between December 2016 and December 2017. 
He paid off his first four loans early, but he struggled to repay his fifth and sixth loans and 
entered a repayment plan. Both loans were passed to a debt collection agency in June 2019 
but were later brought back to Lending Stream. However, loan 6 was passed to another debt 
collection agency in May 2020. 
Lending Stream says Mr M still owes £120.27 on loan 5 and £216.13 on loan 6. Mr M says 
he has repaid these loans. 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms complaint but they thought Lending Streams 
calculations were correct, so they didnt uphold it. 
Mr M disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Mr M said 
Lending Stream werent considering payments he had made to a third-party debt collection 
agency. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I think Mr M still has outstanding amounts due on loans 5 and 6. Ive 
reviewed the bank statements and screenshots Mr M has supplied and compared these to 
the transaction history Lending Stream has provided and there is still outstanding balances 
on the final two loans. The amounts Mr M has shown match the transaction history Lending 
Stream has provided. 
Ive noted Mr Ms comments about Lending Stream not taking into account the payments he 
made towards the loans via a debt collection agency. But looking at Lending Streams 
transaction history these four payments over the two loans are shown. And the amounts total 
the £150 that Mr M says he paid. 
So overall Mr M still owes Lending Stream the amounts stated - £120.27 for loan 5 and 
£216.13 for loan 6. 
As there is still an outstanding balance on these loans, I would like to remind Lending 
Stream of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly and sympathetically in reaching a repayment plan 
for the outstanding amounts.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision  hes put time and effort into his 
complaint. But I hope I have been able to explain how and why I have reached this outcome. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman