DRN-3990522
The complaint
Mr C complains about the instructions Great Lakes Insurance SE provided to a surveyor.
All references to Great Lakes include its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mr C has had legal expenses insurance with Great Lakes since November 2017. The 
following year, he had a boundary dispute with his neighbour.
 
Mr C has previously complained to this service about Great Lakes. Following that complaint 
Great Lakes arranged via some solicitors for a surveyor to visit Mr Cs property to establish 
the boundary and consider whether a neighbour was trespassing on to his land. Great Lakes 
required the report to be court compliant, should it be needed to use in a future court case.
During the process of locating a surveyor Great Lakes contacted Mr C in November 2021 to 
discuss the role of the surveyor. Mr C said he may have some information that may be 
helpful to the surveyor. Within this call the call handler explained the report was for Great 
Lakes so the surveyor wouldnt be able to discuss or explain any questions in respect of 
Mr Cs understanding, nor could the surveyor provide any advice in relation to Mr Cs 
understanding of the boundary. The call handler said the report was for the court and it 
would be a court compliant report. The call handler did say that if Mr C did have information 
to help with the boundary it may be of assistance to have that available for the surveyor, if 
needed.
The solicitors then instructed the surveyor and advised the surveyor not to accept any 
paperwork or instructions from Mr C prior, during, or after the inspection. The solicitors 
asked the surveyor to advise Mr C that all paperwork or instructions should be directed via 
Great Lakes.
Mr C says when the surveyor visited his property the surveyor explained he was unable to 
discuss the matter with Mr C. 
The surveyor completed the survey, but he was unable to determine that the neighbour was 
trespassing on Mr Cs land.
 
During the communications with Great Lakes regarding the outcome of the survey report 
Mr C raised concerns about the surveyor being restricted in what he could discuss with him. 
Great Lakes responded to Mr Cs complaint. It said the surveyor had been instructed in an 
appropriate manner.
 
The investigator looking at the complaint didnt recommend it be upheld. She felt the insurer 
had in the main kept Mr C updated regarding the surveyors report. She thought Great Lakes 
shouldve told Mr C to send any information he thought was relevant to the surveyor, direct 
to it, as well as having it available, for the surveyor, but overall, she thought the insurer 
explained the purpose of the survey and the restrictions on it 
Mr C responded to say that the appointed surveyor did not obtain the original survey reports 
of the estate that adjoins his property. He said the surveyor was also curtailed in his 
investigations by Great Lakes even to the extent of being told not to discuss in depth any 
information that he had. He says he has now found detailed plans previously submitted to 
his district council and a survey conducted by a county council surveyor. He says it will take 
him a considerable amount of time to work through this. He feels badly let down and thinks 
Great Lakes investigation was one sided.
The investigator responded to say that an ombudsman will not be looking at whether Great 
Lakes can rely on the surveyors report so there isnt a need to wait for that evidence. Once 
Mr C has the evidence he wants to obtain he should discuss that directly with Great Lakes. If 
he cant reach an agreement with Great Lakes, he can raise a complaint with it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Just to be clear this complaint is about the instructions Great Lakes gave regarding the 
survey. I do not have the power to consider the actions of the solicitors. I wont be looking at 
any other concern Mr C may have about Great Lakes or the quality of the survey and in 
particular I wont be looking at whether Great Lakes can reasonably rely on the surveyors 
report.
I understand Mr Cs frustration. He feels his neighbours have taken part of his garden and 
that his insurer isnt helping him. But the complaint I am looking at is narrowly focused and is 
limited to the complaint he brought to Great Lakes that resulted in a final response letter 
dated October 2022. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims fairly. I cant see that Great Lakes has acted unfairly. I think it explained the purpose 
of the survey to Mr C. I think it was reasonable for information to be shared via it. I can see it 
has said it will look at any further information that Mr C has regarding the boundary. I can 
understand that Mr C might have wanted to engage more directly with the surveyor, but I 
dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly in its actions. I also think it is reasonable to point out 
that insurers dont typically pay for a boundary survey and so by doing so Great Lakes was 
already doing more than I would normally expect to see.
Finally, I want to remind Mr C that the legal action he wants Great Lakes to fund is subject to 
time limits and he therefore needs to be aware that any delay in getting any further 
information to Great Lakes might impact on either the prospects of success or the possibility 
of legal action. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman