DRN-1703648
 
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain that they was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy by Nationwide Building Society (trading as Staffordshire Building 
Society) when they too out a mortgage in 2003. They say the policy wasnt optional; they 
couldnt have the mortgage without the PPI. 
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H took out a mortgage in October 2003 and at the same time they purchased 
a PPI policy. The policy covered them in the event that they werent working because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy was free for the first six months and then 
the monthly premium was around £20. In the event of a successful claim, it wouldve paid a 
monthly benefit of £550 for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr H and Mrs H 
disagree, so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mr H 
and Mrs Hs case.
Im not upholding Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
The mortgage and the PPI were taken out more than 15 years ago  so unsurprisingly 
neither party has been able to provide much information about the sale and how it took 
place. And in these situations, I have to look at what I think is more likely to have happened.
Mr H and Mrs H say they didnt know that the policy was optional; they had to take it to assist 
their application. Nationwide says the policy was optional and it points to the mortgage 
application form to show that customers of Staffordshire Building Society had a choice about 
PPI.
Its impossible for me to know what, if anything, Mr and Mrs H were told about the policy 
when they discussed it, and I accept its possible they was told they had to have it. However, 
having weighed up the available evidence, and based on what I know about the business 
PPI sales at this time, I cannot safely conclude Mr H and Mrs H were not given a choice 
about whether they wanted to purchase PPI.
Nationwide didnt advise Mr H and Mrs H to buy the policy  all of its PPI sales during the 
period were on a non-advised basis. So I think its most likely that Nationwide didnt 
recommend the policy. This means Nationwide just had to make sure Mr H and Mrs H had 
enough information about the PPI.I dont know what information Nationwide gave Mr H and Mrs H or how it was presented, so 
its possible they didnt get everything they needed. But Ive looked at their circumstances at 
the time to establish whether any possible information failings mightve made a difference to 
their decision to take the PPI.
I think Mr H and Mrs H wouldve been able to benefit from the full range of cover they paid 
for. They told us they was employed and in good health - so they wouldnt have been 
affected by any terms relating to unusual employment circumstances or existing medical 
conditions. Indeed, Mr H made a successful claim on the policy for more than £2,200 in 
2013/2014.
Mr H and Mrs H say they wouldve received good levels of sick pay from their employers if 
they werent working  but this does not automatically mean that the policy was unsuitable. 
This is because if they were they unable to work, the PPI was intended to remove the 
additional pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what would likely be a difficult 
time. And of course, the benefit this policy wouldve provided would be in addition to any 
occupational sick pay and wouldve lasted for longer.
Mr H and Mrs H told us they couldve relied on their family for help if they werent working. 
Ive considered this carefully, and although I understand the point they see to make, there 
could be no certainty that their family would be in a position to provide unlimited help at 
some unknown point in the future.
I dont know for certain how the costs of the policy were explained during the conversation 
with the sales representative. The policy provided a monthly benefit at a cost of around £20 
per month. And it seems to me that someone in their circumstances might have concluded 
that the policy provided valuable cover at a very reasonable price. And, in the event that they 
no longer wanted to have the benefit of the cover, or could no longer afford it, Mr H and 
Mrs H could have cancelled the policy at any time without penalty.
So I dont think that if Mr H and Mrs H didnt get all the information they needed (and I dont 
know with any certainty that they didnt) that this wouldve made a difference to their decision 
to buy the policy. I cant fairly say on the information provided that Nationwide mis-sold the 
policy to Mr H and Mrs H.
My final decision
Im not upholding Mr H and Mrs Hs complaint so it follows that Nationwide Building Society 
dont have to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman