DRN-1955038
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) have handled a request 
to refund a payment he made with his credit card.
What happened
Through a travel agent, Mr S bought return flights from the UK to a foreign country with 
internal flights in the foreign country using his NatWest credit card. The internal flights were 
using a different airline from the outbound and inbound flights. In total they cost £2,250.52. 
After Mr S had made the outbound journey and internal flights, the airline cancelled the 
inbound flights as it had ceased trading. He booked alternative flights to get him home. Mr S 
then contacted NatWest to try to claim back the flights originally booked and the cost of the 
return flights he had taken which were more expensive. Theres no dispute that the internal 
flights were provided as agreed under the contract. This complaint concerns the outbound 
and inbound flights.
NatWest processed a chargeback against the travel agent for the total of £1,919  the cost 
of the flights to and from the UK - and started a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (section 75). Under the chargeback process, the bank credited Mr Ss 
account with that amount. But the travel agent defended the chargebacks as the outbound 
flights had been provided and used. They said Mr S was entitled to a partial refund of 
£690.90 in total against the suspension of the inbound flight. A total of £1,228.10 of the 
money that had been credited to his account, was re-debited.
Mr Ss claim under section 75 was rejected by the bank. They said the necessary 
relationships were not in place for a claim to be successful because hed paid for flights only 
through a travel agent whod then paid the supplier  the airline. It was the airline that had 
cancelled the flights.
As Mr S was unhappy with both the chargeback and section 75 claim outcomes, he referred 
his complaint to us. He said it wasnt made clear that the £1,919 initially recredited to his 
account could be taken back. One of our investigators looked into it. He agreed with what 
NatWest had said. As Mr S had used the outbound flights and hed had a refund of the 
inbound flights, our investigator thought that was the right outcome under the chargeback 
scheme. As the travel agent was used to book flights only, NatWest had no liability under 
section 75.
NatWest accepted our investigators opinion, but Mr S didnt. He restated that hed 
understood from conversations with NatWest, that the money hed received initially under 
the chargeback couldnt be redebited if he co-operated with the bank should the travel agent 
challenge the chargeback. Mr S said he spent the money he received back and wouldnt 
have done so if hed been aware it could have been taken back.
As there was no agreement, Mr Ss complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The chargeback process is used to settle disputes between card issuers (NatWest in this 
instance) and merchants, whereas a claim under section 75, makes the card issuer equally 
as liable as the supplier of goods or services in the event of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. Ill deal with each of these aspects separately.
Chargeback
The rules which cover chargebacks are set by the card scheme. They allow card issuers to 
obtain refunds from merchants in certain circumstances, such as in this case, a service not 
being provided despite being paid for. Under the chargeback process the card issuer 
temporarily refunds the consumer straight away and makes a claim to the merchants bank. 
If the merchant defends the chargeback, the card issuer could pursue it further and 
ultimately ask the card scheme to arbitrate on the outcome.
There isnt an obligation on NatWest to raise a chargeback even if Mr S asks for one. But I 
would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and 
there is a reasonable prospect of success. Here, NatWest - as the card issuer - did raise a 
chargeback and it was defended by the merchant. Ive therefore considered whether 
NatWest acted fairly in how it handled the chargeback.
NatWest sent a chargeback to the travel agents bank for the flights Mr S bought. The travel 
agent however contested the chargeback on the basis that the outbound flights had been 
provided. They said Mr S was entitled to a refund of £690.90 as only the inbound flights were 
cancelled. NatWest accepted what the travel agent had said and made the necessary 
adjustments to his credit card account. 
Ive seen nothing to suggest that they took the chargeback to the next stages of second 
presentment or arbitration, but I dont think thats unreasonable. I think any further action 
would have been unlikely to succeed as its clear that Mr S had used the outbound flights 
hed paid for. 
Mr S has said that he was told by NatWest that the money couldnt be re-debited if he co-
operated with any challenge received from the merchant. Ive listened to the calls between 
Mr S and the bank and Im satisfied the bank made it clear that the funds could ultimately be 
re-debited in the event that the merchant defended the chargeback. 
Mr S has said he spent the money and wouldnt have done so if hed been aware it could be 
taken back. But as Ive said above, I think it was made reasonably clear that this was a 
possibility. While I understand Mr S may have genuinely believed the money couldnt be 
taken back, that is not what the bank told him. I think NatWest acted fairly by re-debiting 
money they couldnt recover for him through the chargeback process.  
section 75
Turning now to the section 75 claim. My role isnt to decide whether Mr S has a valid claim 
under section 75 as that is for a court to decide. Instead, Im required to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In doing so Ive taken into account 
what the law says, including section 75. 
Section 75 says that in some circumstances the borrower under a credit agreement has an 
equal right to claim against the credit provider if theres either a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. One of the circumstances for such a claim to be valid is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement. The 
formal wording for a DCS agreement is set out in section 12 of the same Act. In summary it 
says there needs to be a three-party agreement between a debtor, a creditor and a supplier. 
In this case, Mr S is the debtor, NatWest is the creditor, and the travel agent is the supplier. 
The contract between Mr S and the travel agent was to make the flight bookings which they 
did. Unfortunately, the airline ceased trading which meant the they couldnt provide the 
inbound flights that had been booked.  
The terms and conditions of the contract Mr S had with the travel agent say that they will act 
as an agent on behalf of the airline in the event of a cancellation. They say the remedies 
available in such an event will be governed by the airlines conditions of carriage. The 
airlines terms and conditions said that in the event of a cancellation, where the passenger 
hadnt been contacted by the airline, theyd be entitled to a refund of air ticket and 
INR10,000 or booked one-way basic fare plus airline fuel charge, whichever is less (my 
emphasis). Mr S received a full refund for the cancelled flights which I think meets this term.  
Mr S has provided an email chain between him and the travel agent on the day the airline 
cancelled the flights. In it he agrees that he understands the replacement flights are a new 
booking and completely separate from the cancelled ones. He agrees that the travel agent 
can apply for a refund on [his] behalf directly with the airline which will be for the unused 
portion of the partially utilised tickets based on mileage proration, but [the travel agent] 
cannot guarantee that any refund will be received.
I dont think NatWest was wrong to reject Mr Ss claim under section 75 as there was no 
breach of contract between Mr S and the travel agent  the agent did what they were 
contracted to do. The contract with the airline is outside the DCS agreement as defined in 
section 12 of the Act. 
I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr S and that he finds himself out of pocket 
as a result of the failure of an airline through no fault of his own. But there are no 
circumstances Ive seen in the evidence provided by either side which would make NatWest 
liable to reimburse him under section 75. If Mr S finds himself in financial difficulties as a 
result of this, Id remind NatWest of their responsibility to treat him fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman