DRN-3982432
The complaint
Miss K complains about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) for the quality of 
work carried out at her home following a claim. She wants Admiral to reimburse her for 
further costs.
What happened
Miss K insures her home with Admiral. 
In autumn 2019, Miss K suffered a large escape of water at her home. The bathroom flooded 
and caused the ceiling of the kitchen below to come down. This caused damage to the 
flooring, ceiling and to units in the kitchen. 
She submitted a claim to Admiral and requested that Admirals contractors carry out the 
repairs. 
Works began in late 2019 and ceased in February 2020. 
At that time, Miss K and Admiral agreed to cash settle the remaining work, and 
reimbursement of parts of the work which Miss K had done herself. Admiral paid to Miss K 
£1832.36 in settlement. 
During the course of the works, Miss K submitted a wide-ranging complaint to Admiral in 
January 2020. The complaint detailed damage which had been caused by the contractors, 
and complaints about delays. Admiral investigated that complaint and sent its final response 
in March 2020. Admiral paid Miss K £250 compensation in respect of the points it upheld 
and advised Miss K that she was able to refer to us if she remained unhappy. 
Miss K did not contact us at that time. 
In April 2022, Miss K raised a further complaint with Admiral. This covered some of the same 
issues as she had raised in February 2020, and some further issues.  
Admiral sent a final response to that complaint in May 2022. In its response it pointed to the 
March 2020 letter to answer the previously raised points. In respect of the new issues, 
Admiral requested evidence so it could investigate further, or did not uphold the complaint. 
Miss K was not happy so contacted us. 
Our investigator looked into the new issues and explained to Miss K why we are unable to 
consider the issues which were covered by the response in March 2020. 
Our investigator did not recommend upholding the new issues and explained their reasons 
for that view. This was essentially that the complaints of damage which Miss K had raised in 
2022 would have been, or should have been, apparent to her at the time of the cash 
settlement in 2020 and so were likely factored into that settlement. In respect of some items, 
such as the taps becoming loose, the investigator considered that given the lapse of time, 
the issues could be from wear and tear.
Miss K did not accept that view, so the case has been passed for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My colleague set out a thorough and detailed explanation of their view, and why they were 
unable to uphold the complaint. 
This was due to a lack of supporting evidence of Miss Ks unsuccessful efforts to contact 
both Admiral and its agents, and because the physical damage which Miss K complained of 
would have happened prior to the cash settlement being reached and so was likely 
considered as part of that cash settlement. Alternatively, the issues would have been 
apparent at the time of Miss Ks first complaint and were taken into account in the offer of 
compensation made at that time. 
Since my colleague issued their view, Miss K has queried whether some items of kitchen 
furniture which she bought had been reimbursed. Invoices were submitted to Admirals agent 
in 2019 and it was not clear that these were explicitly settled within the cash settlement 
reached in February 2020. 
This was put to the business, and they were asked for the breakdown of the cash settlement. 
The business has provided the breakdown of the settlement, and this was broken down only 
by room, without specific detail of each item making up the total. The cash settlement offer 
was, however, made to reflect the remaining works on the claim. 
I have not seen further evidence that any claims or invoices were outstanding at the time 
when the settlement was agreed and accepted, and so I think it likely that all outstanding 
invoices were settled by the cash settlement to draw the matter to a close. 
I appreciate that Miss K has complained that she encountered difficulties in contacting 
Admiral or its agents during the claim. Admiral has demonstrated a number of successful 
contacts from Miss K, and I have not seen evidence of unsuccessful contacts. Consequently, 
I cannot say that Admiral failed in this regard. 
In respect of the further issues of workmanship, evidence has not been provided to show the 
damage, and to explain why this was not apparent at the time of the settlement. 
As regards the taps becoming loose, I agree with my colleague that this could be wear and 
tear through use of the kitchen and does not mean a failure from Admiral. 
Overall, I have not seen evidence of failings from Admiral which have not previously been 
considered or settled, and so I agree with my colleague and do not uphold the complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Miss K, but I hope that she is satisfied that the 
available evidence has been fully considered. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Miss Ks complaint and do not ask Admiral 
Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman