DRN-3813018
The complaint
Mr D complains that Responsible Life Limited (RLL) mis-sold him an unsuitable lifetime 
mortgage. Mr D says he wasnt given independent advice on products available across the 
market. Instead RLLs advice was contained to only one lenders products. This has led to 
him paying a higher rate of interest on his lifetime mortgage. 
What happened
In early 2019, Mr D approached an equity release lender (who Ill refer to as A) for a 
lifetime mortgage. A referred him to RLL as one of its approved agents. 
Information and advice about the mortgage were given by RLL. Mr D was advised to take a 
lifetime mortgage for £385,125, with A. Mr Ds mortgage is on a fixed interest rate of 4.29%.
In 2021 Mr D complained to A about the rate of interest hes being charged on his mortgage. 
Hes seen lower lifetime interest rates on the market. Because it was RLL that recommended 
the mortgage, A referred part of Mr Ds complaint to RLL. Part of Mr Ds complaint about As 
actions is being considered separately by our service. I wont be commenting on that part of 
the complaint in this decision. 
 .
Mr Ds complaint against RLL is that it didnt properly explore the market to look for the best 
deal for him. Instead it was acting as a sole agent for A, so Mr Ds options were only limited 
to As products. He believes this is a breach of duty and trust and has led to him paying a 
higher rate of interest. Mr D says more competitive deals are available widely on the market, 
but he was vulnerable at the time and not in a position to shop around himself and was taken 
advantage of by RLL.
Unhappy with the response he received from RLL, Mr D brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into things and felt RLL made its relationship with A clear to Mr D 
from the outset. She didnt think RLL had acted unfairly in the circumstances, so she didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr D didnt agree and asked for the case to be decided by an ombudsman. At this point he 
told our investigator that hes unhappy with how the mortgage was sold for other reasons. 
These are new concerns that RLL has not yet had the chance to address. 
My decision focuses solely on the issues Mr D raised when he made his complaint to A, 
subsequently passed on to RLL. Any new complaints about the advice received from RLL 
will need to be considered by RLL first before our service can look into things. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr D has strong views about this matter. I want to assure him that Ive read and 
carefully considered everything hes provided. However, Ive focused on what I consider to 
be the central issues, and not all the points raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by the parties, 
and address the crux of the complaint, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case. Taking into account the relevant regulation that applies here. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Im not going to go into detail about Mr Ds circumstances. As I dont think thats necessary 
when considering his argument here. That being that there was an unfair relationship 
between RLL and A which led to Mr D obtaining a mortgage on a higher than necessary rate 
of interest. 
Mr D accepts that he approached A directly for a lifetime mortgage. As process was to refer 
customers to RLL to obtain financial advice regarding their enquiry for a lifetime mortgage. 
Mr Ds mortgage is a regulated product. So RLL was required to comply with the regulators 
rules and guidance when it advised Mr D. Ive considered whether thats what happened 
here in relation to the complaint Mr D has made.
The Equity Release Council sets the standards and safeguards that it considers should be
practised by lenders and advisors alike for the protection of equity release consumers. RLL 
is a member of the Council and has agreed to be bound by them. While the Councils rules 
and guidance are not regulatory requirements, I think they represent good industry practice. 
So, Ive taken them into account alongside the rules of mortgage regulation in deciding what 
I think is fair and reasonable in this case.
The relevant rules require firms to communicate information to a customer in a way thats 
fair, clear and not misleading. Ive listened to the initial call between Mr D and RLL and Ive 
considered the information provided in the literature pack. During the call, Mr D made it clear 
that he was happy to proceed to the next stage of the process (an RLL advisor visiting him at 
home) on the basis that he would not be charged for RLLs involvement in him acquiring a 
mortgage with A. Section 2 of RLLs factsheet whos products do we offer? also made it 
clear that it offered lifetime mortgages from A.
So, when considering everything. On the premise that Mr D approached A directly for a 
lifetime mortgage, Im persuaded A was his lender of choice. It was As process to outsource 
the sales process to RLL. There is nothing inherently wrong with that as long as the 
customer is given clear, fair and not misleading information about the process. Which for 
reasons Ive explained I think Mr D was. 
To put this in context if a customer approaches a high street lender for a conventional 
mortgage, they would be referred to an in-house mortgage advisor to receive advice on the 
range of products that lender offered. They wouldnt receive advice and information on whole 
of market products. If a customer requires that level of service, they will need to seek advice 
from an independent broker.
The same applied here when Mr D approached A directly. The only difference being that A 
outsourced its sales service to RLL. Ive not seen anything to suggest Mr D was mis-led into 
thinking RLL was independent to A. The relationship and the reason for RLLs involvement in 
acquiring a lifetime mortgage through A was made clear to Mr D.
Mr D says he was in a vulnerable position at that time and was taken advantage of by RLL. I 
can see from what he has said that he has been through and sadly continues to go through 
a very difficult time. I do empathise with his circumstances.For the purpose of this complaint and when considering RLLs responsibilities during the 
sales process, I must consider whether the advisor ought reasonably to have known of 
anything concerning that meant the sale should have not gone ahead. 
I would expect the advisor to be alert to anything concerning about Mr Ds demeanour. 
Unless there were any obvious signs of unusual behaviour from him, then its difficult for me 
to say that the advisor ought to have been concerned. I have no evidence to suggest that 
there was anything about Mr D that ought to have given the advisor cause for concern.
The council also requires all lifetime mortgage lenders to expect borrowers to get
independent legal advice before taking out the loan. The solicitor does not advise on the
suitability or amount of the mortgage  they do not offer financial advice. But they do ensure
that the borrower understands the nature of what they are agreeing to and the terms they will
be bound by. I can see that A required that to happen in this case and that a solicitor met Mr 
D, gave him that advice and signed the appropriate certificate  meaning the solicitor had no 
concerns that Mr D didnt want or understand the mortgage, or was insufficient mental 
capacity. 
This reinforces my conclusion that there was nothing around the time of the sale that ought
reasonably to have led RLL to conclude that Mr D didnt understand the mortgage, didnt
agree to it or want it.
Overall, taking everything into account Im satisfied RLL did not mislead Mr D during the 
sales process or that he was treated unfairly or taken advantage of. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman