DRN-2089636
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) applied a payment
he made to his credit card account.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 16 July 2020. In my provisional decision I explained why I intended to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint. It said: 
What happened
Mr W had a credit card with Halifax that had an outstanding balance of around £8,351. The
credit card was split between different promotional rates. Mr Ws June 2019 statement
shows he had a promotional interest rate of 0% and owed £4,120. The promotional rate
ended on 13 July 2019 and the interest rate went up to 19.2%. The remaining borrowing was
held on different promotional interest rates between of 4.94% and 6.95% and had a total
outstanding balance of around £4,231.
On 15 July 2019 Mr W made a payment of £4,200, intending to repay the part of his credit
card where the interest rate had increased from 0% to 19.2%. Mr W has explained he
assumed the payment would automatically be used to repay the part of his credit card that
was subject to the highest interest rate, in line with the terms and information given on
Halifaxs monthly statements.
Halifax didnt use Mr Ws payment to clear the outstanding balance that had recently moved
from a 0% promotional rate to 19.2% interest. Instead, Halifax used the payment to repay
the parts of his account that were subject to interest rates of 4.94% and 6.2%. After Halifax
applied all of Mr Ws July 2019 payments, he owed £3,872.39 at 19.2%.
Mr W complained and Halifax responded on 30 July 2019 to say the payment had been
processed correctly. Halifax said any payments made were applied in the order they are set
out in the most recent statement. Halifax quoted the back of its statement that says:
We use your payments to pay off balances charged at the highest interest rate first and so
on down to the balances with the lowest interest rates. This means the more expensive
balances are paid off first.
If there is more than one type of balance at the same interest rate, they are paid off in the
following order  cash transactions, purchases, balance transfers and money transfers, and
then default charges For each type of balance, your payments will pay off the oldest
balance first.
Halifax said the payment had been allocated correctly and in line with the credit card terms
and didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W referred his complaint to our service and it was
passed to an investigator. They thought Halifax had applied Mr Ws payment correctly and
didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr W asked to appeal. He said:
- Halifaxs terms and conditions and the information given on the back of the 
statements say payments will be used to repay the highest interest rate first but 
Halifax didnt do that.
- Because of the way Halifax administers payments its not possible to borrow at a 
true 0% promotional rate as any payment made after the expiration of the 
promotional rate, but before the next statement is produced, will be used to repay the 
oldest balances, not those charged at the highest interest rate.
Mr W asked to appeal and his complaint has been referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax didnt send a copy of the credit card terms and conditions with its file submission and
referred us to its website. I wasnt able to locate the specific conditions covering Mr Ws
credit card but I did find Halifaxs draft terms for credit cards and have relied on those. I
note the information about allocation of payments in the draft terms is the same as that given
on the back of Mr Ws statements. If these are not the correct terms, Halifax should send
across the appropriate version with its response to my provisional decision.
As Ive said above, Ive reached a different decision to the investigator  I think Mr Ws
complaint should be upheld. I agree with Mr W that the information Halifax has provided
consistently says that payments will be allocated to the highest interest rate first and that
didnt happen. Halifaxs own final response says this means the more expensive balances
are always paid off first but its clear that didnt happen for Mr W.
Halifaxs final response appears to be saying that any capital repayments made will be
applied in line with the account balances as at the date the previous statement was
produced. At that stage, the promotional rate of 0% was the lowest interest rate Mr W was
charged with the remaining debt held at 4.94% and 6.2%. Halifax says that when Mr W
made the payment of £4,200 on 15 July 2019, it was used to repay the part of his debt that
was held at the highest interest rate on 25 June 2019, the date his statement was produced.
Ive read the terms and conditions and the information contained on the back of Mr Ws
statements. I havent seen anything in the credit cards terms or the statement information
that says the payment will be applied in line with the most recent statement balances and
interest rates on the date it was produced. The information just says any payment made will
be used to repay the highest interest rate first. And that didnt happen here.
In this case, I agree with Mr W that he did lose out because of the way Halifax applied his
credit card payment. Mr W made a payment of £4,200 on 15 July 2019. At that time, he had
three main interest rates on his account. One at 4.94%, another at 6.2% and the final one at
19.2%. The payment allocation information says Halifax will use a payment to pay off
balances charged at the highest interest rate first. I agree with Mr W that Halifax should have
used the money he paid on 15 July 2019 to repay the part of his account being charged
19.2%.
I note Mr W has also made the point that if he had to wait until the following statement date,
around 25 July 2019, hed have had to pay around 12 days interest at 19.2%. That would
mean that, due to how Halifax says it processes payments, it would have been impossiblefor him to borrow at a 0% promotional rate advertised.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I note Halifax refunded
the additional interest Mr W paid before he repaid the full balance, as a gesture of goodwill.
So Mr W hasnt lost out in terms of the interest hes been charged. But Im conscious Mr W
may have had alternative borrowing costs for the remaining £4,200 that he says he had
intended to leave on the credit card. In his response to our investigator, Mr W said he had
been in a position to clear the outstanding balance. But he doesnt say how that was
achieved. If Mr W has suffered a financial loss, he can forward details and evidence to me
for consideration before I make my final decision.
It is clear that Mr W has suffered some trouble and upset so I intend to take that into account
when deciding how to resolve his complaint. I havent been persuaded that Halifax applied
the payment he made fairly and, as a result, Mr W had to make alternate arrangements to
clear his credit card balance and avoid paying interest.
I should also note that my provisional decision gives Halifax a further opportunity to provide
evidence it feels shows it has acted in line with the credit cards terms and conditions.
Considering the current evidence available and information provided by both sides, I intend
to provisionally uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Halifax to pay Mr W £150 for the distress
and inconvenience caused. As Ive said above, Ill consider any additional evidence or
information Mr W and Halifax wish to send me before I make my final decision.
I invited Mr W and Halifax to respond with any additional comments or information they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr W responded and confirmed he 
had nothing further to add. Halifax accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has confirmed he has nothing further to add. Halifax hasnt sent me any new 
information to consider either. As neither party has sent me anything new to consider, I see 
no reason to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision dated 
16 July 2020. I still think Halifax failed to apply Mr Ws credit card payments in line with the 
account terms and that this complaint should be upheld. As a result, Im going to uphold this 
complaint and proceed in line with the settlement set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax) to pay Mr W £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman