DRN-3087111
The complaint
Miss G complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited unfairly turned down a claim on
her car insurance policy.
What happened
Miss G parked her car at around midnight. She said she returned to her car it was no longer
there, so reported it stolen. Miss G called Admiral to claim on her policy for the theft, during
the call Admiral asked Miss G how many keys she had for the car and where they were.
Miss G said she had two keys for the car, but as the battery was flat on one, shed left it
locked in the car. She said the other key was with her and she had it in her possession.
Miss G later told Admiral this wasnt correct and that she hadnt left a key in the car. She
said she had given it to her mother previously who had since lost the key. A few days after
the theft Miss Gs car was recovered near to where it was stolen from. It was found locked,
with no obvious theft related damage. Miss G had the car recovered and Admiral arranged
for it to be inspected, Miss G said there was some damage to the front and rear of the car
and asked Admiral to repair it.
When assessing the claim, Admiral questioned why Miss G had changed her story about the
keys. She said shed been confused and had realised what shed initially said wasnt
correct after speaking with her mother. Miss G and her mother were both interviewed by
Admiral and confirmed Miss G only ever had one key for her car. Admiral wasnt satisfied
with Miss Gs explanation and thought shed changed her story to try and influence the claim
being paid. Because of this Admiral rejected the claim for two reasons, one under the
policys safeguarding term and the other under its fraud term. Admiral asked Miss G to repair
the costs it had incurred because of the claim. Miss G didnt think this was fair and
complained.
Admiral looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. It said Miss G had given inconsistent
information about the keys and therefore didnt think it had done anything wrong by turning
down her claim. Miss G didnt agree and referred her complaint here. She said Admiral
accusing her of fraud and being involved in the theft of her car was ridiculous as it wasnt
worth much money.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 September 2021 where I said:
The term in the policy Admiral has relied upon says:
If you or anyone acting for you recklessly or deliberately misrepresents information 
at any time during the policy that would impact either the terms and conditions or our 
ability to offer cover itself, your policy and all other policies to which you are 
connected through EUI Limited will be cancelled or voided. We will seek to recover 
any costs we have incurred and will not return any premium.
Ive listened to the first notification of loss call, and during that call Admiral ask Miss G how
many sets of keys she had for her car and she replied two. Admiral then go on to ask Miss
G where the keys are now and Miss G explains she doesnt know, she goes onto say last
week my battery died, and I left one set of car keys in there when I locked the car from
outside. Admirals notes also show this is what the police record shows Miss G told them
when she reported the car stolen.
Miss G later said that she was mistaking her own car battery dying with that of a friends car
and that her mother had let her know that the second set of keys werent in the car. Because
of this Miss G and her mother let Admiral know that Miss G had only ever had one key to the
car.
I appreciate Miss G said shes tried to correct the information shes provided to Admiral,
however as the details about whether a key was left in the car changed and Miss G has
claimed for damage to her car. Im therefore not persuaded Admiral has done anything
wrong in turning down her claim. I say this because Admiral expect someone to know how
many keys they have for their car, and to give accurate information during the course of a
claim. So, while Miss G and her mother have given testimonies supporting Miss G only ever
had one key, its not clear why she initially told Admiral she had two. Im therefore not going
to interfere with Admirals decision to turn down her claim.
Admiral didnt respond to my provisional decision. Miss G responded to say she didnt 
accept it. She said it was unfair for Admiral to do this when shed done the right thing and 
corrected an incorrect statement. Miss G also said at the time she was suffering from a lot of 
stress due to setting her exams and not sleeping properly, shed also had her phone stolen a 
few days before. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Miss Gs comments, but theyve not persuaded me to change my mind. Im 
sorry to hear of the difficult time Miss G was having and would like to assure her I have 
taken it into account. I understand that Miss Gs explained that she realised shed given 
incorrect information, but Im not persuaded by her reasons for changing what she said. It 
follows that Im not persuaded Admiral has done anything wrong for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. 
My final decisionFor the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman