DRN-2684342
The complaint
Mr T complained that the price he paid for his home insurance policy with Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) was unfair.
What happened
Mr T received his renewal quote for his home insurance policy from Lloyds which prompted 
him to look online at prices. He said he found the same policy online with Lloyds through a 
comparison website, but at an 80% discount to what he had paid in the previous two years. 
As he hadnt received this discount in previous years, he said it was unfair to him and to 
many elderly people who were unable to use online services. He asked to be refunded for 
what he thought he had overpaid and was also hoping for some compensation for distress 
inconvenience he said he had suffered.
Lloyds didnt uphold his complaint. It said the premiums were correct for the cover it 
provided. It said that its premiums are influenced by its view of insurance risk and 
administrative costs at a given time. It said, although the cover is exactly the same for your 
old and your new policy, the price offered for your old policy was correct in 2018 according to 
our risk assessment back then.
Lloyds also explained to Mr T that, premiums vary widely across the insurance market, 
which is extremely competitive and as such new policies often include an introductory 
discount or a new business incentive. The premiums charged by an insurer are based on the 
levels of cover provided and their own assessment of risk. Each company assesses the risk 
of a property differently and policies often have different features, which results in different 
premiums offered to reflect this.
Our investigator recommended not to uphold the complaint as she didnt think Lloyds had 
unfairly priced the policy in previous years. She said the impact of the new customer 
discount by Mr T applying online and Lloyds reassessment of the risk were the factors that 
led him to be offered a substantially lower price. Mr T didnt accept this view and asked for 
the case to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer takes out or renews an insurance policy, the insurer will decide how much 
to charge them for it. This policy is 'underwritten' based on information gathered about the 
consumer and their circumstances. Underwriters will weigh up the risk factors and decide 
whether to offer a policy and at what price. For me to find that Mr T has been treated 
unfairly, I need to examine if Lloyds have treated him any differently to any of its other 
customers who may have had similar circumstances.
Insurers constantly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. Lloyds has provided me with confidential business sensitive information to explain 
how Mr Ts price was calculated. Im afraid I cant share this, but rest assured Ive checked it 
carefully. Im satisfied the price that was quoted has been calculated correctly and all of 
Lloyds customers in his position will have been charged a similar premium. Therefore, as 
Lloyds havent treated Mr T differently, I dont think Lloyds have priced his policy unfairly. Ill 
explain further why I think this.
When Mr T took out a new policy with Lloyds in 2018 he hadnt used their services for three 
years. Lloyds reviewed Mr Ts circumstances at that time and assessed the level of risk, 
which resulted in it offering him a policy at a certain price. At that time, I think it is likely that 
Mr T would have been happy with that price as he went on to accept the policy. He may 
even have shopped around the market to see if it was a competitive price when compared to 
other insurers.
I can see his price went up in 2019. But his renewal offer in 2020 was lower and at a similar 
level to what he paid in 2018. Lloyds said that its prices will move year on year as its view on 
risk changes. I dont think these movements over three years are anything to be alarmed 
about. The price Mr T was offered in 2020 was like the price he accepted for a new policy in 
2018. I think this demonstrates that not a lot has changed over the three years, so again, I 
find it hard to say Lloyds have treated Mr T unfairly.
When Mr T applied online, it registered him as a new customer. I am comfortable with Lloyds 
explanation that the main difference between the renewal price and online price is due to a 
discount it had offered to Mr T as a new customer. When Mr T applied via a comparison 
website, Lloyds didnt know Mr T was an existing customer and it offered a discount to try 
and win his business. This is not an unusual tactic in what is a competitive industry and 
where price is often the main differentiator. I think Lloyds would have offered a similar 
discount if a new customer approached it over the phone, as opposed to via an online route.
I understand Mr Ts frustration, after receiving a cheaper price on line, he thinks he should 
have been offered this price in the previous two years as well. However, I think Lloyds have 
been reasonable in its actions and it has also been transparent in explaining that the 
difference in prices was caused by the new customer discount, which it uses to incentivise 
new customers to buy their insurance from Lloyds. I dont think it would be sustainable for 
Lloyds to offer discounts of this size every year to all customers and it has the right to 
develop its own commercial approach to attracting customers and keeping customers, in the 
same way as customers have the right to shop around for the cheapest deal.
In summary, I dont uphold this complaint. I dont think Mr T has been treated any differently 
to how Lloyds would treat other customers in his situation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman