DRN-3359459
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as J, complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) declined a
claimed made on its Tradesman & Professionals commercial policy.
Mr D, a director of J, has complained on Js behalf.
What happened
In 2020 J took out a Tradesman & Professionals policy with Covea. The policy covered J for
employers, public and products liability  as well as insuring its contract works, and any
plant (machinery) that was owned or hired. An endorsement was applied to the own or
hired plant section of the policy that said theft of any property, while unattended between
1800 and 0600 hours and during weekends, wouldnt be covered unless it was either kept in
a fully enclosed yard or compound which is securely closed and locked or under constant
surveillance.
One of Js vans was stolen from a hotel car park in September 2020. The van was fitted with
a tracking device and was later found  but the tools and small plant that had been inside it
at the time of the theft werent recovered. J made a claim on its policy for the stolen plant
and tools, which was declined by Covea in April 2021 for not meeting the requirements of
the unattended theft endorsement. In particular it said Js insured property hadnt been
under constant surveillance at the time of the theft.
J raised a complaint and argued that the hotel car park having closed-circuit television
(CCTV) cameras meant the requirement for the van to be under constant surveillance had
been met. Coveas response said it had contacted the hotel, who confirmed the CCTV
wasnt continuously watched by staff  and therefore it didnt believe J had complied with the
term.
Unhappy with the response, J referred things to our service for review. An investigator here
considered everything and didnt uphold the complaint. In his view, the CCTV not being
monitored meant it didnt meet the requirement of being under constant surveillance.
J didnt accept the investigators view, and so the complaint was passed to me for a decision
on the matter. I issued my provisional findings on 9 February 2022, which said I intended to 
uphold the complaint. Ive copied below an extract of it which explained my rationale:
CCTV involves cameras continuously monitoring or watching an area. Its otherwise 
known as video surveillance, and so the use of the word surveillance in this policy I 
consider immediately brings CCTV to mind. The car park in question here had CCTV, 
so it was under constant surveillance  just by cameras, and (as it turned out) not a 
person. Ive carefully considered the term, and both parties comments, and Im 
persuaded that Js interpretation (that CCTV would satisfy the requirements) was a 
reasonable one. Having that in place would be a deterrent, and criminals wouldnt 
know for sure whether or not it was constantly monitored. I also dont think J would 
have left things in the van if it had believed the tools and plant would be at risk in the 
car park.
J says it rang ahead to check what security measures were in place at the hotel and 
was told the car park was monitored by CCTV. Based on that it was satisfied the van 
would be safe and the contents covered by its insurance policy. The insurer intended 
that the constant surveillance involved a person  either watching the cameras or 
patrolling the car park. But it hasnt said that in the policy. Constant surveillance also 
isnt otherwise defined in the terms  though, by contrast, the meaning of fully 
enclosed yard or compound which is securely closed and locked is expanded on, 
with lots of detail given on the acceptable height and type of fencing, along with what 
it considered to be sufficient locks.
Ive considered Coveas comments about why unmonitored CCTV, in its view, does 
not qualify as constant surveillance. However, Ive reviewed the relevant 
endorsement wording on the policy, and thought about what a fair and reasonable 
interpretation would be in this particular case. For the reasons given above, Im 
satisfied that constant surveillance would reasonably be interpreted as including 
CCTV. Given all theft cover is removed if the term isnt complied with, Im not 
satisfied its fair and reasonable to turn down this claim because the CCTV wasnt 
continuously monitored  as that wasnt stipulated by the insurer. I appreciate J is a 
commercial customer, but it isnt an expert on insurance and risk. So if Covea didnt 
want to cover a certain risk then I consider it needed to be clearer in its wording. J 
would have made other plans if it had been. Therefore Im minded to uphold the 
complaint and say the decline is unfair in the circumstances of this case.
As mentioned earlier, the damage to van wasnt covered, nor were any tools  only 
equipment meeting the definition of plant. So Covea should now deal with the claim, 
to see whether anything stolen from the van was covered under the policy, setting 
aside the unattended theft exclusion it cited previously as the reason for declining it. 
J has alleged it lost earnings as a result of the claim not being covered and the plant 
not being replaced in 2021. In order to consider that loss I would need to see 
evidence J couldnt afford to replace it at the time or make alternative arrangements, 
as that would have been a reasonable step in order to mitigate its losses. So, unless 
J is able to provide further information to supports its losses, I consider the fair and 
reasonable outcome would be for Covea to add 8% simple interest per annum to any 
amount it pays. It should calculate this from the date of the claim to the date it makes 
payment, to compensate J for not having the money. 
Covea didnt respond by the deadline. J said it accepted what Id said in my provisional 
decision but added some further comments about its lost earnings. Mr D told us that J had 
suffered some losses as a result of the stolen tools not being replaced  but wasnt able to 
provide any supporting evidence. He said the affected clients had been approached to help 
with the proof required but they were unwilling to assist due to J not finishing the jobs. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im upholding this complaint  and for the same reasons I gave in my 
provisional decision. Covea offered no further arguments, so I see no reason to depart from 
the rationale Ive set out above. As Im not satisfied the decline was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances, Covea should now consider the claim for any plant stolen from the van  
setting aside the unattended theft exclusion it cited previously as the reason for declining it.  
Ive thought about Js response, in respect of its lost earnings  and firstly I note that Mr D 
referred to stolen tools, but any tools in transit werent covered under the policy (just 
equipment meeting the definition of plant). Secondly, in order to direct Covea to pay for Js 
financial losses, Id need to see some evidence in support of them. 
Id also have to be persuaded that any profits lost from jobs not completed, or not able to be 
taken on, were the direct result of the unfair decline of the claim  rather than due to the theft 
itself. The plant in the van might have been needed for a job when it was stolen, but a claim 
would have always taken time to validate and settle. So any jobs lost in that time wouldnt be 
Coveas fault. Additionally, Id need to be satisfied that J couldnt have hired in or replaced 
the plant sooner  to prevent those jobs being lost. 
I appreciate its frustrating that Js clients didnt want to help with providing proof of lost 
earnings. But if jobs had been booked in (and subsequently lost) then Id expect J to have 
some evidence of that without needing to involve other parties. So, having not seen any 
additional evidence to otherwise quantify the lost earnings, Im not directing Covea to pay 
out anything in that respect. Overall, I still find that adding 8% simple interest per annum 
onto any settlement amount, will fairly compensate J for the time it will have been without 
that money, and the delay caused by the unfair decline.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Js complaint about Covea Insurance plc, and direct the 
insurer to:
Consider the claim for any stolen plant, setting aside the unattended theft exclusion, 
and then settle it in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
Add 8% simple yearly interest onto any settlement amount, calculated from the date 
the claim was made by J up until the settlement is paid by Covea.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman