DRN-3671046
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy as they feel Insure & Go Insurance Services Limited (Insure & 
Go) mis-sold their travel insurance policy to them. 
What happened
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have explained that they purchased their annual multi-trip travel insurance 
through Insure & Go for many years. They were happy with the cover, and it automatically 
renewed each year. One of the key elements of the policy was winter sports cover  which 
didnt specify any upper age limit for when the cover applied.
As above, the policy renewed yearly. But, in January 2021, Mr and Mrs L decided they didnt 
require their policy to renew when it was next due to  on 5 February 2021. This was 
because of the Coronavirus pandemic, and the regularly changing restrictions on travel. So, 
they contacted Insure & Go, on 31 January 2021, to let it know they didnt require the cover 
for the next year. So, Insure & Go on behalf of Mr and Mrs Ls insurer, made sure the policy 
wasnt in force  and that the premiums for the next year were returned to Mr and Mrs L.
Around ten months later, in November 2021, Mr and Mrs L decided they needed travel 
insurance again. So, theyve said they phoned Insure & Go, and told them they needed 
cover. Mr and Mrs L said they asked Insure & Go to arrange the reinstatement of their 
previous policy. And they thought this had happened, as they had instructed.
But they later learnt their previous policy hadnt been reinstated at all. Rather, they had been 
provided with a new policy. Theyve explained the problem with this was the cover was not 
the same as they had before. They no longer had winter sports cover on the policy, for 
anyone over 65 years of age. This was a problem because Mr L was over this age limit.
This only came to light when Mr L was injured skiing on holiday and was looking to make a 
claim for some losses in relation to this. 
Because of the above, Mr and Mrs L felt Insure & Go had mis-sold their new insurance 
policy to them. And they raised a complaint with Insure & Go about this.
Insure & Go considered the complaint, but said it didnt mis-sell the policy to Mr and Mrs L. 
Firstly, it said it wasnt able to arrange the reinstatement of a policy. Once a policy was 
cancelled  that was it  a new policy would need to be purchased through them for any 
future cover. And it said it didnt discuss the matter on the phone with Mr and Mrs L. Instead, 
it said Mr and Mrs L purchased their new insurance through them  but online. And their 
website made it clear that the cover being arranged didnt provide cover for anyone over 65, 
for winter sports. So, Insure & Go didnt think it did anything wrong.
Because Mr and Mrs L remained dissatisfied, they referred their complaint to this service for 
an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator didnt think Insure & Go had mis-sold a policy to Mr and Mrs L. So, they didnt 
recommend Insure & Go do anything differently in this case.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. They remained of the opinion that Insure & Go had mis-sold the 
policy to them. 
Because Mr and Mrs L dont agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Mr and Mrs L have said their insurance policy was mis-sold to them. In a non-advised sale 
such as this, Insure & Go has a duty to be clear, fair and not misleading when selling the 
policy. This is so that Mr and Mrs L are able to make an informed choice as to whether the 
policy is one suitable for their needs. So, Ive considered whether Insure & Go acted in line 
with this, when it sold Mr and Mrs L they policy in November 2021.
Mr and Mrs L say misleading information was provided to them during a phone call in 
November 2021. Theyve said from this conversation, they were under the impression their 
previous policy would simply be reinstated  under the same policy terms as above.
Mr and Mrs L havent been able to provide firm evidence of this call taking place. And Insure 
& Go has provided a screenshot of its system  showing no calls on its call system having 
come in from Mr and Mrs L during this time. Given this, it isnt possible for me to establish 
with certainty that there was a call about the purchase of a policy in November 2021. And if 
there was a call, it isnt possible for me to establish what was said on the phone. 
This means I havent any firm, or sufficiently persuasive, evidence to say Insure & Go told 
Mr and Mrs L on the phone, that the policy theyd arrange for them would be exactly the 
same as the previous one, under the same terms. Or that it would reinstate a previous 
policy. So, I dont find Insure & Go did anything wrong in this regard.
Insure & Go have said the new policy was taken out online, rather than on the phone. And 
said why it considers that to be the case. This being because the method through which it 
sells the policy has a direct impact on the policy number the policyholder will be given. It 
explained that the first few numbers of the policy number given to Mr and Mrs L are its code 
for a website sale. It has provided me with a screenshot of their system, showing the various 
codes, and what these mean. And having looked at this, and Mr and Mrs Ls policy 
documents  these do coincide with the sale being online. So, it seems likely the policy was 
taken out online  whether there was also a phone call around this time, or not. 
Insure & Go have provided me with a screenshot from their website, which says the 
following, under the winter sports page:
Weve made getting travel insurance for winter sports as quick and easy as possible. If 
youre aged 65 or under you can add winter sports cover to any of our policies. Simply 
choose the policy thats right for you, and youll have the option to add winter sports before 
completing your purchase.
This suggests that if the policy was taken out online, this information was available for Mr and Mrs L to see. Mrs L, who is also on the policy, was under 65 at the time the policy 
was purchased. So, it would have been possible for Mr and Mrs L to select this cover, and 
still have some cover under this section. 
Im also aware Mr and Mrs Ls new policy documentation was sent to them. Ive seen a copy 
of this  including the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). This clearly 
highlighted to Mr and Mrs L that there was no cover for winter sports, for those over the age 
of 65, where winter sports cover was selected. So, regardless of the method through which 
the policy was sold, I think Insure & Go did give Mr and Mrs L the necessary information, in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way, to allow them to make an informed choice about the 
suitability of the policy at that stage. 
It may be useful to explain, that once an insurance policy is cancelled, an intermediary such 
as Insure & Go wouldnt be able to reinstate a policy with an insurer, on previous terms. The 
insurance industry doesnt generally have an option for a policy of this nature to be placed 
on hold  and then started when the policyholder next needs cover. Rather, new cover would 
need to be purchased, and the terms and conditions of policies at that point would apply. So, 
it wouldnt have been possible for Insure & Go to arrange this, even if Mr and Mrs L wanted 
this to happen.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Insure & Go Insurance Services Ltd to do anything more in relation to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman