DRN-2795602
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the total loss settlement Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company 
Limited (LV) paid, the delay it caused and the compensation it paid when he made a claim 
under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Hs car was stolen in September 2020 and he made a claim to his insurer, LV. 
LV said it would settle Mr Hs claim by paying the market value of his car at the time of loss, 
minus the excess payable under the policy.
Mr H was unhappy with the amount LV said it would pay. In October and November 2020 LV 
increased the settlement sum. Mr H remained unhappy and in December 2020 LV replied to 
his complaint and said it would pay a final total loss settlement of £47,300. 
LV accepted that it had caused some delay and for this it paid Mr H £100 compensation. 
Mr H didnt think LV had done enough to resolve his complaint. He said LVs delay had 
meant he paid additional interest in finance repayments for the car. Mr H thought LV should 
increase the total loss settlement to £48,900 based on adverts for similar cars. 
Our investigator followed our approach to valuation complaints. He checked the main motor 
trade guides and found that the sum LV had paid Mr H was above the average of the guides. 
So in line with the policy, the investigator thought LV had acted reasonably. For the delay 
caused, he thought the compensation LV had paid Mr H of £100 was a fair sum. He 
explained that Mr H Was always responsible for repaying the finance until the claim was 
settled. 
Mr H didnt agree. He says LV hasnt treated him fairly  and his claim for loss of interest is 
separate to the compensation LV has paid for the delay it caused. 
So as Mr H didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy with LV says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value of 
his car at the time of loss. It defines the term market value as:
the cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model and specification, 
taking into account the age, mileage and condition of your car. To determine the 
market value, well usually ask an engineer for advice and refer to motor trade guides 
and other relevant sources. Well consider the amount you could reasonably have 
obtained for your car if you sold it immediately before the accident, loss or theft and 
not the price you paid for it. 
We have an established approach to valuation complaints. We dont decide a valuation but 
we can look at whether an insurer reached its valuation reasonably and in line with the 
policy. We tend to find the main motor trade guides a reliable way to decide a valuation. 
They provide a retail transacted figure based on likely selling prices for a car of the same 
make, model, age, condition and mileage as Mr Hs at the time of loss. By using the main 
motor trade guides, we can see the range of valuations available. If we find that an insurer 
has paid within the range of the guides and there are no unusual specifications or 
circumstances, then we are likely to say that the insurer had reached its valuation in a 
reasonable way. 
We find adverts can be less reliable as they can vary widely and tend to have a margin built 
in for negotiation on the for sale price. However, Ive considered the examples Mr H has 
provided of similar cars for sale as well as the main motor trade guides LV relied on.
LVs initial total loss settlement was £45,400 in October 2020 which Mr H rejected. This was 
within a month of the date of the theft. The main trade guides which LV relied on provided 
valuations ranging from £43,590 to £45,740. 
In December 2020 LV increased the settlement sum to £47,300. On our review of the motor 
trade guides, we found that the final sum LV offered was higher than the average of the 
guides. LV says it took into account the examples Mr H provided but also kept in mind the 
main motor trade guides. 
I think LV reached its decision reasonably. The total loss settlement it paid is above the 
range of the valuations we checked for a similar car to Mr Hs. And so I dont think LV needs 
to increase the settlement amount. 
When LV settled Mr Hs claim with the finance company, M H owed a balance to them. Mr H 
says he paid additional interest due to having to make repayments as a result of LVs delay. 
Having to make a claim will take some time. Each case varies, but while a claim is being 
settled, it is the customers responsibility to continue with any finance agreement during this 
time. 
I think LV caused some delay as Mr H had to chase for an update 12 days after he 
submitted his claim in September 2020. Mr H complained about the valuation amount and 
LV had up to eight weeks to investigate and provide a reply, which it did in December 2020. I 
think the £100 sum LV paid Mr H to take into account the consequences of some delay is 
overall fair and in line with what we would award in similar circumstances. 
I understand Mr H is disappointed with the way LV dealt with his claim. But I think it did treat 
him fairly. And I think it has done enough to resolve his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman