DRN-3626410
The complaint
Mr P has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) was taking payments 
for two home emergency policies at his address.
What happened
Mr P contacted British Gas when he found that payments were being taken for a second 
British Gas home emergency policy. British Gas registered it as a complaint and agreed to 
refund the payments for the second policy. 
When Mr P didnt receive the refund, he complained to this service. Our investigator said 
British Gas had acted fairly by refunding the payment, but should have paid interest on that 
amount.
As British Gas didnt agree it needed to pay any interest, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 4 July 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning not to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive looked at the two policies. The original policy isnt in Mr Ps name but uses largely the 
same address, including the postcode, as provided to this service. The second policy, which 
British Gas agreed to refund, is in Mr Ps name and the address is the same as Mr Ps but 
the last three letters/ digits of the postcode are different.
British Gas has explained that the second policy was applied for online. I note that Mr P has 
said the payment for this new policy was being taken from a different bank account than the 
payments for the first policy. So, it seems that whoever set up the new policy also had 
access to those new bank details when it was applied for. Ive also looked up the address on 
the second policy and, from what I can see, it seems to be a genuine address that is almost 
identical to Mr Ps.
British Gas has said that although it had systems to check whether there was already a 
policy for a particular address, the differences in the first line of the addresses and the 
postcodes meant its systems didnt pick this up. Looking at the addresses, I can see why this 
was the case. Even if someone had carried out a manual check on these two policies, I think 
it would have been unlikely that someone would have been clear they were both for the 
same property. The policies were in different names, at similar but different addresses and 
Mr P said the payments were also being taken from different bank accounts. So, I cant see 
that British Gas would have had any reason to think there was an issue until Mr P raised it.
When Mr P contacted British Gas, it investigated and agreed to cancel the new policy and 
refund Mr P the payments for it. I think that was fair and reasonable. The issue now is 
whether British Gas should pay interest on the amount it refunded. Having thought about 
what happened, Im not currently persuaded that it should. At times, this service would say 
that a business should pay interest. This includes where a business has made a mistake. 
But I havent seen evidence that makes me think British Gas made a mistake by setting up 
the new policy. It set up a new policy that was in a different name, at a different address and 
with different bank details than the original policy. I cant see that it had any reason to query 
the application.
Im also aware that when Mr P complained to this service, he said he hadnt received the 
refund. When this service asked British Gas about this, it checked its records and saw that 
the cheque it had issued hadnt been cashed. So, it cancelled the cheque and reissued it. I 
understand that the cheque has now been cashed. From what I can see, the original cheque 
might have gone to the address on the second policy. However, when this service made 
British Gas aware that Mr P hadnt received the payment, I think it took reasonable and 
prompt steps to deal with this. So, based on what Ive seen, I dont currently think British Gas 
needs to pay any interest on the refund amount.
Thinking about all of the above, I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint or to require 
British Gas to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 1 August 2022.
British Gas agreed with my decision and said it didnt have anything further to add.
Mr P didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. I havent found any reason to change my view on how this complaint 
should be resolved and, as a result, I dont require British Gas to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman