DRN-3967587
The complaint
Mrs P thought Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) made an unfair settlement 
offer in lieu of replacing her carpet following an escape of water claim under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs P made a claim in June 2021 on her policy following a leak at her home. There were two 
parts to the settlement of the claim  (1) damage to the kitchen and utility (2) damage to her 
hall carpet (& matching replacement of staircase and landing carpet). After some difficulty 
the first part of the claim was agreed by both parties. This complaint relates to the second 
part of the claim  the replacement of the carpet in the hall, stairs and landing.
Initially, RSAs contractor made a desktop assessment of the claim and offered a cash 
settlement of £369 in September 2021. Mrs P rejected the offer. In November 2021, RSAs 
contractor visited Mrs Ps home to validate the claim. It increased its offer to Mrs P to £829 
and Mrs P would have to pay an additional £82 towards underlay. RSAs contractor said Mrs 
P provisionally selected a carpet for fitting after Christmas.
At the end of November RSAs contractor asked Mrs P if she wanted to proceed but quoted 
a different upgrade that Mrs P would be expected to pay (£275). It reminded her she could 
take the cash equivalent value. Mrs P asked clarification of the cash equivalent value and 
RSAs contractor informed her it would be £774. Mrs P sent an email confused by the 
different offers made and asked for clarification  she also stated she would prefer a better 
choice of carpet that better matched the quality of her damaged one.
Mrs P said she was asked to provide quotes to have the work done herself  she had four 
quotes and she said the lowest one was £1,722. Mrs P raised a complaint as RSA wouldnt 
match the carpet with a good quality one and she couldnt get the work done herself with the 
cash offer that RSA made. RSAs contractor said it only had to settle the claim at the cost it 
would cost itself to do the work.
Mrs P was unhappy with the general handling of the claim. She felt confused by the number 
of parties she dealt with and never had an explanation for the low initial offer. She said she 
had to endure Winter with the concrete floor exposed and wasnt refunded £90 in electricity 
costs for drying out her property. She said this was particularly distressing due to her 
vulnerable circumstances at the time. RSA said some of its contractors service was short of 
expectations, so offered a goodwill gesture of £100.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. After checking that RSA could still fit the 
carpets, he said it should replace the carpets or provide a cash settlement that allows Mrs P 
to have the carpets replaced herself. He thought Mrs P had been without a carpet for some 
time and wouldve been frustrated, so increased the compensation by £150 (to £250 in total). 
RSA disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 30 January 2023. I said:
I have checked the policy in relation to claims settlement and it states You can request a 
cash settlement where were able to offer repair or replacement. If we agree to this, the 
amount well pay won't normally be more than what we would've paid our nominated 
repairers or product suppliers.
This kind of clause is normal in policies and our service thinks its fair. It allows claims to be 
cash settled, but at an amount that it would cost the insurer. Insurers will normally have its 
own network of suppliers and will be buying services at lower commercial rates. However, if 
an insurer cant fully indemnify the customer in a reasonable timeframe (i.e., put the 
customer back in the same position she was in before the original incident occurred), then 
wed expect any cash settlement to reflect what it would cost Mrs P to get the work done 
herself.
Since the investigators view, I can see that RSA has confirmed that it is still willing to 
replace the carpet for Mrs P. However, having reviewed the sequence of events, I dont think 
RSA, or its contractors have managed this claim effectively. So, I am intending to uphold this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
RSA are experts in the claims process, so I think it should lead Mrs P efficiently through the 
process. I dont think it has done this. It has made the settlement process extremely 
confusing for Mrs P. Its initial cash offer was around 40% of the final offer it made  this 
shows it was not done fairly and not enough attention was given to ensure its customer was 
treated reasonably. It followed this up by offering different figures to Mrs P on two occasions 
and it took too long to correct the confusion that it had caused.
When RSAs contractor visited to validate the works and to get Mrs P to select a 
replacement carpet, it only brought 5 samples with it. Its contractor said it can visit again and 
bring more samples for Mrs P to view. I dont think this is an acceptable service  I think the 
contractor couldve done more. I think it shouldve visited Mrs P first before making its initial 
offer, so it could properly match the carpet for quality. I think it shouldve arranged to take a 
greater range of samples for Mrs P to choose from.
I can see Mrs P made an extensive effort to get a range of quotes  and shes shopped 
around to try and get something that is competitive. She has chosen the cheapest quote. 
The suppliers have advised the old fittings wont be sufficient for a new carpet being laid, so 
has quoted for these to be replaced too and new underlay. I think this is reasonable. I think 
the lowest quote of £1,311 seems fair.
As I think RSA has let Mrs P down, I think it has forfeited its right to provide a cash offer at a 
level which doesnt cover Mrs P to get the work done herself. Mrs P has lost confidence in 
RSA, so I think she should be entitled to get the work done by her own contractor should she 
choose. Therefore, I intend for Mrs P to choose whether she wishes RSA to replace her 
carpet on a like for like basis or alternatively, I intend she can choose a cash settlement of 
£1,722 so she can get her own contractor to do the work. However, this quote was created 
around 15 months ago (one and a quarter years), so I think the price will have increased with 
inflation. I have assumed inflation of 10% per annum, so I have increased this amount by 
12.5% to £1,937.
I think RSA couldve dealt with this claim more efficiently  its first offer was in September 
2021, so I think if it had made a fair offer or arranged a suitable replacement first time  Mrs 
P wouldve had her carpet by October 2021. So, I think Mrs P wouldve been distressed by 
only having concrete flooring during the winter. I think the poor handling of the claim has 
inconvenienced Mrs P. She hasnt been reimbursed her electricity costs for the drying of her home. Mrs P has had vulnerable circumstances during the claim, so I think the impact on her 
wouldve been greater. Therefore, I intend to award her an additional £300 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience (£400 in total) and £90 reimbursement for electricity costs.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs P accepted my provisional decision and didnt have anything more to add.
RSA didnt have anything more to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to:
Give Mrs P the choice of having
oher replacement carpets supplied and fitted (including new fixings and 
underlay) by RSA, or, 
oa cash settlement of £1,937
Pay Mrs P £300 compensation  for distress and inconvenience (in addition to the 
£100 RSA originally offered, which needs paying if it hasnt already)
Pay Mrs P £90  for electricity costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman