DRN-3349709
The complaint
Mr I complains Lloyds Bank PLC lent irresponsibly when it approved a loan application. 
What happened
On 25 March 2016 Mr I applied for a loan with Lloyds for £7,000 and it was approved. On 28 
March 2016, Lloyds approved a second loan application, this time for £9,011. The second 
loan repaid the first and also increased the outstanding balance. The loan later fell into 
arrears and was closed by Lloyds. 
Mr I went on to complain that Lloyds had lent irresponsibly when it approved his loan 
applications. Mr I said he repeatedly applied until his application was accepted. Mr I also 
said he was self employed when he applied and that Lloyds shouldve been aware his 
income was variable. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Is complaint and said it had completed a number of different checks 
when assessing his loan applications. Lloyds didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. Mr I 
referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Lloyds had dealt with Mr Is complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr I asked 
to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say Lloyds had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Mr I could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These affordability 
checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of whats 
considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement;
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
In this case, Lloyds approved two loan applications Mr I made within a few days of each 
other. Lloyds has sent evidence to show the information Mr I provided in his application. Mr I 
said he was self employed with an income of £1,800 after tax. Mr I gave a monthly rent 
figure of £400 and Lloyds completed a credit search. Lloyds found monthly payments for 
credit commitments totalling £340. In addition, Lloyds used a figure of £373 to estimate 
Mr Is essential living costs. Lloyds says Mr I had no adverse credit or arrears on his credit 
file and went on to approve his applications. 
Whilst the rules say Lloyds had to ensure the loan repayments were sustainable, they dont 
require Lloyds to obtain evidence of an applicants income. In this case, Mr I has told us he 
thinks Lloyds shouldve been aware hed have difficulty making payments as he was a sub 
contractor with variable income at the time of his application. But the application simply says 
Mr I is self employed with a monthly income of £1,800 after tax. Whilst I understand the 
nature of Mr Is work, I think its fair to note thats specific to his circumstances. Not all 
employed or self employed people will work in the same way. I wouldnt expect Lloyds to 
carry out more detailed checks solely on the basis of Mr Is said he was self employed. 
Mr I has told us he had lots of outstanding credit at the time of his application along with 
signs on his credit file he was struggling. But Lloyds completed a credit search and didnt 
find signs Mr I was unable to maintain the monthly payments. There was no adverse 
information recorded and no arrears on Mr Is credit file. Im satisfied Lloyds considered 
Mr Is credit commitments as part of the application process. 
Lloyds also use the rent figure Mr I gave in the application and added £373 for other 
essential spending. Lloyds has explained it obtains this figure via financial modelling. Whilst I 
understand Mr Is outgoings are likely to be different, Im satisfied Lloyds used a reasonable 
estimate along with the rent figure he provided when considering his monthly outgoings. 
I understand the second application was approved a few days after the first. But the second 
loan was used to repay the first and, for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied the 
checks that were completed were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances of 
Mr Is complaint. 
Whilst I understand Mr I later had difficulties making payments and the loan closed, I havent 
found Lloyds lent irresponsibly. As Ive said above, the rules required Lloyds to consider 
whether a borrower can sustainably make repayments over the term by carrying out 
proportionate checks. Im satisfied Lloyds did that when it considered Mr Is applications and 
that its decision to proceed was reasonable. Im sorry to disappoint Mr I but I havent found 
that Lloyds lent irresponsibly.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Is complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 
15 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman