DRN-2282545
The complaint
This complaints about a Skye Loans-branded secured loan Mrs B used to hold with 
Link Mortgage Services Limited. Shes unhappy that items were removed from her property 
whilst it was in Links possession. Mrs B says shes lost personal possessions worth over 
£60,000.
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, 
using my own words, and rounding the figures involved. No discourtesys intended by that; 
its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Link was granted a possession order over Mrs Bs property in July 2019; it didnt enforce the 
order immediately as Mrs B was trying to sell the property. That didnt happen and Link took 
possession on 7 November 2019. It posted a 14-day notice for Mrs B to remove items she 
wanted. 
Mrs B had by then moved to Australia, and arranged for her brother Mr M to visit the 
property. The visit took place on 30 November 2019 but most of Mrs Bs possession 
remained thereafter and Links asset managers made arrangement for a house clearance to 
take place.
The clearance started in early December 2019 but was then paused after Mr M said he was 
trying to raise funds to repay the loan; the redemption took place in January 2020. Soon 
after, Mrs B complained that a large quantity of valuable and personal possessions had been 
removed and the property itself left in a dishevelled state. Link rejected the complaint and 
Mrs B referred it to us. 
Our investigator didnt think Link had done anything wrong; he said it had given Mrs B 
enough time to arrange for anything she wanted to be removed, and wasnt persuaded any 
further clearance had taken place after it was halted when Mr M said he would arrange 
redemption. Mrs B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases.
What I have here is two very different versions of events; the difficulty I have is that having 
considered everything that both parties have said and provided, I dont find either version to 
be more persuasive than the other. 
Mrs Bs case isnt helped by inconsistencies in her evidence; for example, on one occasion 
she refers to having lost 20 Mulberry handbags  on another she says its 25. Put simply its 
not possible for me to reach any reliable conclusion about what was in Mrs Bs former 
property before Link began its clearance, and what remained after it. 
The problem there is that as shes the party bringing the complaint, Mrs Bs version of events 
has to be more likely than Links if Im to uphold the complaint. All I can say from what Ive 
seen in that Mrs Bs version is, at best, no more than equally as likely as Links; and that isnt 
enough for me to find in her favour, however much she thinks I should.
The other observation Id make is that having looked at the list of high-value (and in many 
cases, distinctly saleable) items Mrs B says she lost, a very obvious question arises of why 
she didnt sell some of them to clear the arrears in the first place, and thus avoid Link 
needing to take possession proceedings. 
More generally, Im satisfied that before the clearance was even started, Link had provided 
ample time and opportunity for Mr M, as Mrs Bs agent, to remove anything he thought 
should be removed. I note Mrs B says Link told Mr M he could make as many visits as he 
liked. It seems unlikely that a lender would be quite so flexible as that; thats not to say I rule 
the possibility out entirely but it certainly wasnt mentioned in any of the phone conversations 
Ive listened to.
Mrs B doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if she doesnt, then neither she nor Link 
will be bound by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions a court 
might impose, Mrs Bs right to take legal action against Link over the subject matter of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, above, I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes 
this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman