DRN-4308400
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim they made on their
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were due to travel abroad with their son and friends in the summer of 2022.
Mrs B had also planned to do an endurance activity for no financial gain.
Mr and Mrs B had the benefit of a travel insurance policy through a federation to which Mr B 
belongs. The policy is underwritten by Aviva.
Shortly before they were due to depart the UK, Mrs B became unwell, leading to the trip
being cancelled.
Mr and Mrs B claimed on the policy for the pre-paid costs they were unable to recover,
including accommodation and car hire expenses, most of the flight costs and costs
connected to the endurance activity.
Aviva initially declined the claim, relying on the following exclusion in the policy (the
exclusion):
The policy doesnt cover:
any loss if the Insured Person has been taking part in any activity or sport not listed
in Activities and Sports, including but not limited to steeplechasing, polo, hunting, any
professional sport(s), mountaineering (normally requiring ropes or requiring the
services of a guide), pot holing, canyoning, quad biking, fighting (except in self-
defence), scuba diving below a depth of 30 metres, parachuting, racing, speed or
endurance tests or practising for such events or any form of organised team sport.
Unhappy Mr and Mrs B brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
After doing so, Aviva said it had mistakenly relied on the exclusion to decline the claim.
However, it maintained that the claim wasnt covered under the policy because the policy
covers cancellation of an insured journey which is defined under the policy as:
any trip devoted entirely to pleasure, rest or relaxation or Business Purposes
undertaken by the Insured Person only to the business of the Policyholder.
And because the purpose of the trip was for Mrs B to undertake an endurance activity, it
didnt meet that definition.
Our investigator agreed so he didnt think Aviva had unfairly declined the claim. However, he
did think there had been some service failings and he ultimately recommended Aviva pay Mr
and Mrs B £200 in compensation.
Aviva accepted the investigators recommendation. Mr and Mrs B did not. So, this complaint
was passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. I issued my provisional decision 
in June 2023 explaining why I was intending to uphold this complaint. An extract of my 
provisional decision is set out below. 
.
Aviva has an obligation to handle insurance claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline a claim.
Im intending to uphold this complaint as Im not currently satisfied that Aviva has fairly and
reasonably declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim for the reasons it relied on. Ill explain why.
The insured journey
I dont think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably by concluding that the trip booked for the
summer of 2022, cancelled by Mr and Mrs B, wasnt an insured journey as defined by the
policy terms.
The policy doesnt define pleasure, rest or relaxation. And Im satisfied that the feelings of
pleasure and relaxation are subjective, open to different interpretations to different people.
Mr and Mrs B accept their trip did include Mrs B undertaking an endurance activity. She says
she would be the only participant and had arranged and paid for someone experienced and
authorised to be with her so that it could take place. The activity wasnt for financial gain, and
she says she did it for pleasure and relaxation. Im satisfied Mrs B has given credible
testimony that this was something she enjoyed doing and says she has been involved in
similar endurance activities around the world. Im persuaded by what she says about that.
The policy sets out at page 11 the activities and sports covered under the policy. It expressly
states that the activity/sport Mrs B was taking part in was covered and it doesnt put further
conditions on that unlike some of the other activities/sports mentioned.
Further, this page of the policy also lists other activities which objectively might not be
considered to be pleasurable, restful or relaxing including: marathon running, hill/ trekking
between 3,000 and 6,000 metres, sailing within 12 miles from land and off piste skiing (with
qualified guide or instructor).
I dont think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to conclude that the endurance activity Mrs B
was going to take part in as part of the trip is materially different to other such activities listed
as covered on page 11 in this case  and not for pleasure, rest or relaxation. And I dont
think its fairly concluded that the trip isnt covered under the policy for this reason.
The exclusion
Aviva sought to initially rely upon the exclusion to decline the claim but accepted this was a
mistake. I agree that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for it to rely on the exclusion to
decline the claim.
It says the policy excludes any loss if the insured person has been taking part in any activity
or sport not listed in the activities and sports section. The term is drafted in the past tense
rather than the future tense. It doesnt, for example, say the policy wont cover any loss if the
insured person will be taking part in activities not listed as covered. So, as is common in
many travel insurance policies, I think the exclusion relates to losses/claims which are a
direct result of the insured person taking part in activities not listed on page 11.And although the exclusion is said to exclude endurance tests thats inconsistent with some
of the activities listed at page 11  including marathon running. Further, the activity Mrs B
was going to be taking part in is also specifically included on page 11. So I think the effect of
those sections being read together are unclear.
But in any event, the trip was cancelled so Im satisfied Mr and Mrs B didnt experience any
losses because of Mrs B taking part in any activity whilst abroad.
I also think the exclusion further supports my provisional findings above that Mr and Mrs B
had booked and cancelled an insured journey. If Aviva didnt intend to provide cancellation
cover for trips similar to the one Mr and Mrs B had booked, there would be no need to have
the exclusion in the policy.
Applying Avivas logic, there would be no need to exclude losses if the insured person has
been taking part in an activity not covered under the policy for the activities the exclusion
goes on to mention such as fighting, professional sports, endurance tests or any form of
organised sport. So, on Avivas case, trips involving those activities wouldnt be covered
because such trips wouldnt meet the policy definition of an insured journey in the first place.
Non-disclosure, misrepresentation or misdescription
Aviva has also said to our service that Mr and Mrs B ought to have discussed the purpose of
the trip with Aviva before booking the trip for the summer of 2022.
The term in the policy it seeks to rely on relates to the disclosures before the policy was
taken out  which was many years ago. Although the policy was renewed annually by the
policyholder, Ive seen nothing to show that the policyholder or Mr and Mrs B were asked
any questions about specific holiday intentions when they were being added to Mr Bs
employers travel insurance policy many years ago or at renewal.
So, I dont currently think it would be fair and reasonable for Aviva to rely on that term to
decline the claim.
The way in which the claim was handled
I dont think Aviva progressed Mr and Mrs Bs claim as quickly as it shouldve, and I dont
think the claim was handled fairly. The claim was submitted in August 2022, and it took
Aviva one month to ask Mrs B for further information, which I think she promptly provided.
I dont think the claim was promptly progressed thereafter, leading Mrs B to contact Aviva on
a couple of occasions in October 2022. And although I can see from Avivas contact notes
that it was in discussions with the underwriter in November 2022, Mr and Mrs B werent told
that the claim was declined until December 2022. Ive seen no persuasive reason why it took
Aviva so long to decline the claim once Mrs B provided it with the information requested in
mid-September 2022. This unnecessarily caused Mr and Mrs B uncertainty and worry over
the outcome of their claim for a long period of time. The claimed amount is over £10,000 so I
understand why Mr and Mrs B were chasing Aviva for updates.
Aviva accepts that the reason put forward to decline the claim at that stage was a mistake. I
accept why Mr and Mrs B felt frustrated by discovering that Aviva put forward a different
reason to decline the claim to our Service  which for the reasons set out above, Im
currently satisfied isnt a fair and reasonable reason either.
I think Aviva should pay £250 compensation to Mr and Mrs B to reflect the distress andinconvenience its caused them.
Putting things right
Within 21 days from the date on which our Service notifies Aviva that Mr and Mrs B accept
any eventual final decision, I intend to direct Aviva to:
reassess the claim made by Mr and Mrs B in line with the remaining terms of the
policy - on the basis that their trip amounted to an insured journey and the exclusion
doesnt apply - including any excess and policy limits.
pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
..
I invited both parties to provide any further information in response to my provisional 
decision. Mr and Mrs B said they agreed with the proposed outcome. 
Aviva accepted the claim couldve been handled better and agreed to pay £250 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. However, it didnt accept that the trip which 
was cancelled amounted to an insured journey as defined by the policy. 
In summary Aviva said:
considering the evidence and background, any reasonable person would conclude 
that the trip wasnt devoted entirely to pleasure, rest or relaxation.
its risk appetite is for leisure forms of the activity Mrs B was due to take part in. It 
doesnt include an endurance version of this activity or record attempts, which it says 
would increase the risk and falls outside of its underwriting appetite for this policy. 
by completing the endurance activity, Mrs B promoted her own personal profile and 
that of her business. 
if the full nature of the planned trip had been disclosed to it, Aviva wouldnt have 
underwritten the additional risk. It says the additional risk would be considerable. 
Aviva has also provided various links to websites in support of its submissions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
That includes Avivas response to my provisional decision. Having done so, I uphold Mr and 
Mrs Bs complaint. Avivas further points havent changed my mind. Ill explain why.
As set out in my provisional decision, the words pleasure, rest and relaxation are 
subjective. And those three words arent separately defined in the policy. Mrs B may 
have been seeking to make history with the swim she planned to make and if shed 
accomplished the swim, it may have raised her personal profile. But Im persuaded 
that she intended to derive pleasure from the endurance swim she was intending to 
do and her hope of completing it. As this was the purpose of the trip, Im satisfied that 
it amounted to an insured journey as defined the policy. 
Ive been provided with no documentary evidence to support what Aviva says about 
not having a risk appetite to cover trips involving the (endurance) activity Mrs B planned to partake in whilst away or if it involved a record attempt  as opposed to a 
simple leisure activity. But in any event, as I explained in my provisional decision, the 
policy sets out at page 11 the activities and sports covered under the policy. It 
expressly states that the activity/sport Mrs B was taking part in was covered and it 
doesnt put further conditions on that unlike some of the other activities/sports 
mentioned. So, if Aviva didnt intend to cover the activity Mrs B was due to partake in 
 if it involved an endurance element  that isnt made clear at page 11 of the terms. 
So, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Aviva to conclude that the activity wasnt 
covered. 
Ive seen nothing to show that the policyholder or Mr and Mrs B were asked any 
questions about specific holiday intentions when they were being added to Mr Bs 
employers travel insurance policy many years ago or at renewal. So, even if  as 
Aviva says  Aviva wouldnt have agreed to cover the trip if it had been made aware 
of the purpose - I dont think it would be fair to conclude that Mr and Mrs B ought to 
have disclosed to Aviva the purpose of the trip when booking it (or at any time) to see 
whether it was covered, and if so, on what terms. 
For reasons set out above and in my provisional decision (an extract of which is set out 
above and forms part of my final decision), I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Putting things right
Within 21 days from the date on which our Service notifies Aviva that Mr and Mrs B accept
my final decision, I direct Aviva to:
reassess the claim made by Mr and Mrs B in line with the remaining terms of the
policy - on the basis that their trip amounted to an insured journey and the exclusion
doesnt apply - including any excess and policy limits.
pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to put things right as set above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman