DRN-4423398
The complaint
Mr C complains, through his representative, that Throgmorton Private Capital Ltd gave him
unsuitable advice to transfer his Personal Pension Plans to a Self-Invested Personal
Pension (SIPP).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 5 October 2023. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons why I was provisionally minded to uphold it 
were set out in that decision. Ive copied the relevant parts of it below and it forms part of this 
final decision. 
Copy
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent both parties his
assessment of the complaint in September 2023. The background and circumstances to the
complaint and the reasons why he didnt recommend that it should be upheld were set out in
that decision. However in summary, Mr C was advised to transfer his pension plans to the
SIPP in 2008. At the time he was in his mid-forties, married, had a salary of £7,000 a year
and was taking dividends of around £50,000. He was recorded as having a medium attitude
to risk, and was open to spreading his pension across a mix of lower and more speculative
risk funds.
Throgmorton recommended that the transfer value of approximately £54,000 be invested:
Index Linked Gilts Fund (15%)
AXA Retirement Distribution Fund (20%)
Blackrock Gold and General Fund (8%)
JP Morgan Natural Resources Fund (7%)
AXA Cash Fund (50%).
Mr C complained about the advice hed been given through his representative in 2022.
Throgmorton didnt uphold the complaint, and Mr C subsequently referred it to us.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said although he didnt think
that Throgmorton had carried out the advice process itself to the standards required by the
regulatory guidance, he was satisfied that, ultimately, its recommendations relating to the
transfers were reasonable.
The investigator said that from what he could see the charges on the SIPP that Throgmorton
was recommending were lower than the existing plans. And it offered a greater variety of
funds. Mr Cs existing plans were invested in with-profits, and offered little to no other choice
of funds. As Mr C had stated he had a medium attitude to risk and was open to moving his
pensions to a portfolio of low to speculative risk funds, the wider range of funds available
allowed him to do this. The investigator said consolidating the pensions would also make
them easier to manage.
The investigator also thought that the funds recommended were appropriate for Mr C at the
time. He said 15% were allocated to speculative funds, 35% in medium risk funds and the
remaining 50% in cash. He said although having 50% invested in cash might not
immediately align with Mr Cs attitude to risk, he thought it reasonable given Mr C had
expressed concerns about the volatility in markets at that time. He said it was a short-term
strategy to preserve a large portion of Mr Cs fund, and the plan was to review his
investments again in a years time with a view to switching.
The investigator also considered the guarantees that were offered on some of the pensions
Mr C was transferring  three retirement annuity contracts (RACs). He said whilst he
accepted they provided good value, he thought given Mr Cs attitude to risk, there was a
likelihood that the SIPP could have met if not exceeded the value of the guarantees offered.
Overall, the investigator was satisfied that the potential benefits of transferring outweighed
the benefits offered by the existing pensions.
Mr Cs representative didnt agree with the investigators findings. It said, in summary, that
Mr C was advised to invest in two very high-risk volatile funds from 2008 through to 2017.
Combined with the 50% invested in cash, it provided for a very unbalanced portfolio and was
unsuitable for the level of investment experience Mr C had.
It said it didnt agree that the loss of benefits from the retirement annuity contract could have
been justified at the time the advice was given or their replacement with an unbalanced
investment strategy. The representative said it didnt agree the recommendations made by
Throgmorton were suitable; the risks taken were not in line with his attitude to risk, and the
fact that the fund value increased significantly appeared more down to good luck than good
management.
The investigator responded to say that although two funds were high risk they represented
only a small percentage of the total amount invested. So if they didnt perform well Mr Cs
pension wouldnt have suffered a significant loss. He said the cash fund was a short-term
option to preserve the pension as Mr C had cited concerns about market volatility. The
investigator thought that across the whole portfolio with the potentially protective effects of
diversification, Mr C's investments aligned with medium risk. Especially given that Mr C was
happy to spread his investments across a range of different risk funds.
Throgmorton didnt provide any further evidence or arguments to consider.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think at first sight the combination of funds recommended does appear unusual for a
medium risk investor  including some higher risk funds and 50% in cash. But as the
investigator said, only a relatively small proportion was invested in the higher risk funds. And
the documentation from the time clearly shows some thought had gone into the investment
strategy to protect a significant proportion of the fund from the market volatility that was 
prevailing at the time. The transfer didnt go through until a few months later in January 
2009. And a decision was made to switch the money from cash into other funds very shortly 
after the transfer. I think its clear that some thought had gone into the investment strategy, and I dont think that strategy in itself was unreasonable for Mr C given his circumstances at 
that time.
Mr C transferred four plans in total; a Stakeholder pension and three RACs. The suitability
letter refers to the reduction in yield on the SIPP being 1%. However its not clear to me if
that includes the initial charge of £4,295  which was about 8% of the transfer value. The
information thats been provided - the statement of investments dated 8 January 2009 for
each of the transfer values - shows a reduction in yield of 1.1% for the £35,138 Stakeholder
plan transferred. And for the three RACs it was 1.2% for the £8,316 transferred, and 1.3%
reduction in yield on the two other transfer values (£1,261 and £2,447).
I understand the charges on the existing plans were 1%. So this would suggest the charges
on the new plan were between 0.1 - 0.3% higher than the existing plans. Having higher
charges in itself doesnt mean that a transfer is unsuitable. And here they were only slightly
higher. However I think there needs to be a good reason(s) to transfer to a higher charging
contract to make a transfer worthwhile.
The RACs provided a guaranteed minimum basic annuity and tax-free lump sum at
retirement date. Projections from the time provided figures for the tax-free lump sums that
were based on three times the basic annuity. However this had subsequently changed to a
maximum of 25% of the fund value at retirement date. The figures werent based on the
25%, but the basic annuity would have been adjusted upwards to reflect any restriction on
the tax-free cash.
In total, the three RACs would have provided as a minimum a basic annuity of £1,632 plus a
tax-free lump sum of £4,896 (based on the three times the annuity). These were based on a
growth rate of 4.5% - in effect the RACs provided a guaranteed growth rate of 4.5%. Figures
were also provided assuming investment growth of 8.5%. These were, in total, an annuity of
£3,600, and tax-free lump sum of £10,800.
The illustrations for the SIPP relating to the three RACs projected figures of £1,864 for the
annuity and £9,438 tax-free cash in total. This was at the growth rate of 7%. But growth in
excess of 8% would have been needed to provide these figures given the reduction in yield
was between 1.1 and 1.3%.
Whilst the projections for the SIPP were slightly higher than the minimum guaranteed figures
for the RACs, the RACs minimum figures were based on the lower growth rate of 4.5%. The
estimates for the RAC using 8.5%, a growth rate significantly closer to the rate used for the
SIPPs figures, provided for an annuity of nearly double that provided by the new plan.
The suitability report recorded that the three RACs were all invested in with-profits funds.
And that the Stakeholder Plan was invested:
70% - UK equity
15% - UK equity
15% - European equity
So Mr C had about £40,000 in a Stakeholder pension invested in these three funds. And
three RACs with about £12,000 invested in with-profits funds.
Given that a growth rate in excess of 7% was required to match the minimum benefits
payable from the three RACs, I cant see there was any significant upside to Mr C
transferring given he was a medium risk investor. He was guaranteed to get similar benefits
from the RACs at this growth rate, and if the with-profits fund performed well benefits in
excess of the minimum, which the SIPP was unlikely to match (given Mr Cs attitude to risk).One of the reasons given for the transfer was that it enabled Mr C to invest in a wider range
of funds. But he already had a range of funds available to invest in through his Stakeholder
plan. The with-profits funds were themselves invested in a spread of asset classes. So I
think Mr C was already well placed  had some minimum guarantees through the with-profits
funds, potential to increase the minimum benefits subject to performance, and was exposed
to more risks through his Stakeholder pension.
The SIPP did allow a wider choice of investment. Although the SIPP itself may have had
cheaper charges than the Stakeholder plan, once all the charges were taken into account
the illustrations provided suggest it was 0.1% more expensive. I accept this wouldnt have
had a significant impact on the returns.
On the one hand, it may have been that the Stakeholder plan provided a sufficient range of
funds for Mr Cs needs, and there was no real need for him to transfer from it. However, on
the other, I think the existing funds Mr C was invested in through the Stakeholder werent
aligned to his medium attitude to risk  they provided a greater degree of risk. So even if Mr
C had remained in that plan he would have needed to switch funds.
As Ive said above, Im satisfied that some thought went into deciding the funds that Mr C
invested into following the transfer to the SIPP, and that they were suitable given his
circumstances. On balance, I think Mr C did benefit from the wider investment choice
following the transfer of the Stakeholder pension in this particular case. But even if I was
wrong about that, given the minimal difference in charges - 0.1% - I think the value of the
SIPP that is derived from the transfer of the Stakeholder pension provides a fair reflection of
what value Mr C could have received when he transferred to another provider in 2017,
having been invested in line with his attitude to risk.
So Im not intending on making an award in relation to the transfer of the Stakeholder plan.
However, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Mr C was likely to benefit by
transferring the RACs. They provided minimum guaranteed benefits that Mr C was unlikely
to improve on following transfer given his attitude to risk. They also provided a blend of
benefits when combined with the Stakeholder pension funds/or SIPP funds  some in with-
profits with a minimum guarantee and some at risk.
So Im currently not persuaded that there were good reasons to transfer the RACs to the
SIPP. In my opinion Mr C should have been advised to retain the RACs. I think it was always
unlikely he would benefit from the transfer given the nature of the benefits provided by the
RACs in the context of the degree of risk he was willing to take.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr C as far as its possible back into the
position that he would likely have been in had Throgmorton not given unsuitable advice. I
think Mr C would have remained in the three RACs. I intend to order Throgmorton Private
Capital Ltd to calculate whether Mr C has suffered a financial loss, and if so pay him fair
compensation by:
Obtaining a notional transfer value for the three RACs from the previous provider as  
at the date that the benefits were subsequently transferred from the SIPP (which I 
understand was in March 2017). Ill call this A.Compare that value with the actual transfer value provided from the SIPP at the date 
of transfer, but only that part of the transfer value derived from the three RACs 
original transfer values. Ill call this B.
If the value of A is higher than the value of B, then Mr C has suffered a loss and 
compensation is payable. Ill call this C. However if the value of B is higher than the 
value of A no loss has been suffered, and no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss - C should be adjusted to allow for an appropriate return on it from the date
of transfer in March 2017 to date. I think the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return
index provides a reasonable proxy given Mr Cs attitude to risk. Its made up of a range of
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds.
Any compensation payable should if possible be paid into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or
allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr C has remaining tax-free cash entitlement, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75%
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to
be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects
this.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
I asked Mr C, through his representative, and Throgmorton Private Capital Ltd to let me have 
any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to consider before I made my final 
decision. 
Mr Cs representatives said it had no further submissions to make.
Throgmorton said it had no further information to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional 
decision copied above.
My final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part.
I order Throgmorton Private Capital Ltd to calculate and pay compensation to Mr C as set 
out in my provisional decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman