DRN-3591996
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim made on
their travel insurance policy.
All references to ERGO include its representatives.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr and Mrs S took out a worldwide, multi-trip, travel insurance
policy underwritten by ERGO (the policy). The policy covered the period 31 January 2020 to
30 January 2021.
Mr and Mrs S departed for a prolonged trip abroad in February 2020. Theyd planned to
travel to many countries. In the middle of March 2020, Mr and Mrs S were in a country Ill 
refer to as A. Theyd pre-booked a flight to another country, which Ill refer to as F which 
was due to depart A on 21 March 2020. On 20 March 2020, whilst still in A, Mr and Mrs S 
were notified by the airline that the government of F had announced that anyone flying from 
an overseas destination was required to self-quarantine for 14 days  staying in one place,
avoiding contact with others and avoiding going out in public.
Mr and Mrs S had pre-booked to flight from F to another country which Ill refer to as U on
28 March 2020 before returning to the UK on a flight from U on 1 April 2020.
So, if they took the flight from A to F, as planned, on 21 March 2020, not only would they
have been required to stay in one place, they wouldve missed their flight to U and return
flight to the UK.
Mr and Mrs S say they contacted ERGO for assistance on 20 March 2020. And having heard
nothing back from it decided to book two return flight tickets to the UK from A rather than
taking the flight to F on 21 March 2020. They ended up returning to the UK on 21 March
2020.
After they returned to the UK, Mr and Mrs S made a claim on the policy for the cost of the
two return flight tickets back to the UK, the other flights they were unbale to take after 20
March 2020 which theyd pre-booked and paid for and unused accommodation costs. The
value of the claim is more than £3,000.
ERGO declined the claim on the basis that the circumstances which led to Mr and Mrs S
cutting short their trip wasnt covered by the policy. Unhappy, Mr and Mrs S complained
about that decision.
In its final response letter dated November 2020 ERGO maintained that Mr and Mrs S claim
wasnt covered under the curtailment section of the policy. However, it did say that Mr and
Mrs S were entitled to claim under the disaster recovery section of the policy  up to a
maximum of £500 each. It paid them £1,000 under this section of the policy.
Mr and Mrs S say ERGO should pay the claim made under the cancellation and curtailment
section of the policy.
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. To put
things right, she recommended that ERGO cover the value of the claim made under the
cancellation and curtailment section of the policy and add simple interest at the rate of 8%
per year.
Mr and Mrs S accepted our investigators recommendation. ERGO didnt reply. So, this
complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional decision explaining why I was 
also intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. An extract of which appears below:
..
ERGO has an obligation to consider claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably
decline a claim.
The cancellation and curtailment section of the policy (at pages 15 and 16 of the terms and
conditions of the policy) sets out what is covered under this section. That includes all
irrecoverable deposits and payments for unused travel and accommodation charges which
you have paid or are contracted to pay before the trip departure date, for which you are
necessarily required to if:
you or any person with whom You have arranged to travel or stay being subject to
compulsory quarantine during the period of insurance
ERGO has said that compulsory quarantine would be applicable to the circumstances of this
complaint if Mr and/or Mrs S had contracted Covid-19 and were unable to travel because
they were self-quarantining.
However, the policy doesnt define compulsory quarantine. And in the absence of a
definition, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to interpret this clause of the policy to
include having to quarantine on the instruction of the government to help avoid the spread of
Covid-19, upon arrival in that country, as is what happened here.
Fs government announced on 20 March 2020 that anyone flying from an overseas
destination and entering F were required to self-quarantine for 14 days  staying in one
place, avoiding contact with others and avoiding going out in public. So, Im satisfied its fair
and reasonable to conclude that had theyd travelled to F, Mr and Mrs S wouldve been
subject to compulsory quarantine. And I think ERGO hasnt acted fairly and reasonably by
not treating this as an insured event under the cancellation and curtailment section of the
policy.
The cancellation and curtailment section goes on to list what isnt covered under that section
of the policy and that includes, at clause 6:
Government regulations (other than in respect of compulsory quarantine) or currency
restriction or act, or omission or default of provider of transport or accommodation or
of an Agent through whom the travel arrangements were made
Im satisfied that it was a result of government regulations that Mr and Mrs S wouldve been
required to quarantine for 14 days upon arrival in F. However, as this exclusion expressly
says it doesnt apply to government regulations in respect of compulsory quarantine, I dont
think ERGO would be able to fairly and reasonably rely on this exclusion to decline the
claim..
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or information in response to my 
provisional decision. Both parties said they had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because both parties had no further comments to make, my provisional thoughts about this 
complaint remain the same. So, for this reason, and for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision  an extract of which is set out above - I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Putting things right
I direct ERGO to assess the claim as if its covered as an insured peril under the
cancellation and curtailment section the policy, subject to the remaining terms and conditions
of the policy  including (but not limited to) the applicable excess  but not applying the
government regulations exclusion set out above.
If ERGO pays the claim, I think it would be fair and reasonable in this case for ERGO to pay
Mr and Mrs S simple interest at the rate of 8% per annum from the date on which the claim
was initially declined to the date of which payment is made.
ERGO can also deduct from the total amount it pays Mr and Mrs S (with interest), the sum of
£1,000 it paid to them under the disaster recovery section of the policy (pages 22 and 23 of
the terms and conditions of the policy).
My final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I direct ERGO Reiseversicherung AG to put things right 
by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman