DRN-3347966
The complaint
Miss L complains that a car she bought under a conditional sale agreement from Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc was not of satisfactory quality. She wants to reject it. 
What happened
In November 2021 Miss L entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander for a 
used car. The car was around three years old and cost just under £15,000. It had an 
odometer reading of around 63,000 miles. 
Within a couple of weeks, Miss L says that she noticed noises from the cars engine and 
exhaust. She contacted Santander to say that she wanted to reject the car. The dealership 
which had supplied the car said that a third party garage had checked the car and said there 
was some movement in the exhaust flap, but that could be attributed to wear and tear. 
Santander arranged for an independent inspection of the car. That inspection reported oil 
leakage in the engine bay and around the turbocharger and a rattle from the flexible joint on 
the exhaust system. The flexible joint needed replacing and the turbocharger would require 
further investigation. The report concluded however that, due to the use of the car since 
delivery  it had covered just over 1,900 miles  the faults would not have been present at 
the time of delivery. Relying to a large extent on that report, Santander said that it was not 
liable to Miss L and declined her request to reject the car. 
Miss L did not accept Santanders conclusion and referred the matter to this service. Our 
investigator thought however that the car had not been of satisfactory quality and that Miss L 
could properly reject it. Santander did not agree and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The conditional sale agreement was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality. That means the quality a reasonable person would expect in the 
circumstances  including, for example, the cars age, price and mileage. Santander 
acknowledges that the car had faults but says that they did not mean that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality  they could be put down to wear and tear. 
Miss L bought a used car with a relatively high mileage for its age. Its price was significantly 
lower than it would have been if the car had been bought new. It was therefore reasonable to 
expect that faults might develop and that some might be significant and expensive to rectify. 
Generally, in court proceedings, it is for the person who makes an allegation to prove it. In 
this case, it is Miss L who says that the car was not of satisfactory quality. However, the 
effect of the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is that, where a fault comes to light within six 
months, it is for the supplier to show that it was not present at delivery. Santander says that 
it has done that, because the inspection report concluded that the faults identified were not 
present or developing at the point of sale. The report referred in particular to the use Miss L 
had had of the car in the few weeks between delivery and inspection. 
I am not bound by the same rules of evidence as a court would be, but I must take relevant 
legislation, including the Consumer Rights Act, into account. I do not believe in this case that 
Santander has shown the faults with the car were not present or developing at delivery. The 
statement in the inspection report does not, in my view, show that; it simply refers to the 
mileage from delivery. Whilst it is well above average for the time concerned, I think Miss L 
was entitled to expect the car to cover rather more than 2,000 miles before it needed 
significant repairs.  
Miss L also said very quickly after delivery that she wanted to reject the car. Santander 
accepts that she would be entitled to that remedy if the car was not of satisfactory quality. As 
I have explained, however, I believe the car was not satisfactory; it follows that Miss L was 
within her rights to reject it at the point she told Santander she wanted to do so. 
Putting things right
The investigator noted that Miss L had been able to use the car, so I do not believe that it 
would be appropriate to refund any monthly payments that she has made. As far as 
possible, however, my award seeks to put her broadly in the position in which she would 
have been if she had not entered into the finance agreement with Santander.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that, to resolve Miss Ls complaint in full, Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc should within 28 days of Miss Ls acceptance of this decision:
end the conditional sale agreement so that Miss L has nothing further to pay;
if necessary, collect the car at no cost to Miss L;
refund Miss Ls deposit of £400, together with interest at 8% simple from the date of 
payment until the date of the refund;
pay Miss L £100 in recognition of the distress Miss L has suffered and any 
inconvenience to which she has been put; and
remove any reference to the agreement from Miss Ls credit file.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman