DRN-4014017
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H have complained about Assurant General Insurance Limited. They are not 
happy about the way it dealt with a claim under their mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr H made a claim under their mobile phone insurance policy after their daughter 
had a problem with her phone which was covered under their policy. Assurant offered to 
advance the claim direct or for Mrs and Mr H to approach the manufacturer of the phone and 
use their walk-in service. As this was quicker and more convenient Mrs and Mr H chose this 
option. Assurant paid the cost of repair minus their policy excess and the phone 
manufacturer fixed the phone and provided a 90-day warranty.
Unfortunately, the phone had a further problem and when Mrs and Mr H approached 
Assurant it signposted them back to the manufacturer - pointing out that the phone was 
provided with a warranty and any issue with the repair should be advanced with them. 
Assurant advised during the initial claim process that if the manufacturer couldnt fix the 
phone for any reason then they should come back to Assurant. Eventually the manufacturer 
said it couldnt repair the phone and Mrs and Mr H agreed to pay a contribution towards a 
new phone while the cost of the original repair (partly paid for by Assurant) was refunded. 
Mrs and Mr H werent happy about this, so they complained to Assurant. But it explained the 
manufacturer was responsible for the further problems they faced under the warranty. And 
that they would have had to come back to Assurant, rather than pay for a new phone 
through the manufacturer, if they wanted to make a claim. As Mrs and Mr H remained 
unhappy they complained to this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for them but didnt uphold their complaint. Although he 
understood why Mrs and Mr H advanced the matter with the phone manufacturer in order to 
quickly get a new phone he didnt think it would be fair to ask Assurant to pay the cost they 
incurred as Mrs and Mr H didnt approach Assurant again about the phone. As Mrs and Mr H 
didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs and Mr H, but Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mrs and Mr H advanced matters with the phone manufacturer initially 
and I understand from listening to the calls that this was the quickest method of repair. And it 
was important for their daughter to get the phone working quickly. But Assurant outlined that 
if there was any problem with the repair then Mrs and Mr H should come back to Assurant. 
So I would have expected Mrs and Mr H to go back to Assurant if there was any suggestion 
the manufacturer couldnt repair the phone. But they didnt and when they had a further 
problem with the phone they chose to go back to the manufacturer which was 
understandable as there was a warranty in place and it had repaired the phone before. I 
understand that Mrs and Mr H did try and call Assurant while at the manufacturers walk-in 
service after the phone had broken down again. But Assurants offices were closed as it was 
the festive period, so they chose to contribute towards a replacement phone through the 
manufacturer. However, I cant hold Assurant responsible for this and I know it wouldve 
delayed things a little but Mrs and Mr H needed to contact Assurant in the first instance if 
they wanted to make a new claim or continue with the old claim. Had Mrs and Mr H done so 
Assurant wouldve taken steps under the policy to consider the damaged phone. 
I cant expect Assurant to just pay an additional £200 without first receiving a claim or 
assessing the damaged phone. I know Mrs and Mr H feel Assurant should step in now as it 
signposted them to the manufacturers walk-in shop, but I think Assurant made it clear how 
the claim would be advanced if they chose that path. And importantly Assurant made it clear 
if there was any problem with this process then they needed to come back to Assurant. 
During the initial claim call Assurant told Mrs H to please give us a call if there was any 
problem with the manufacturer repairing the phone. And the covering documentation from 
around the time of the initial claim said any costs for additional repair, upgrades or 
replacements will not be covered by your policy. You can choose to pay the difference, or 
contact us to follow the alternative claims process. 
Given all of this Im not asking Assurant to do anything further. It considered the initial claim 
and Mrs and Mr H chose to use the manufacturer to fix the phone. And it is possible that 
they may be able to advance this issue with the manufacturer direct if the phone was still 
under warranty, but they will have to advance this separately. I know Mrs and Mr H will be 
disappointed by this, but I have to be fair to both sides when I consider complaints brought to 
this Service. And I think Assurant was clear that they needed to come back to it if the 
manufacturer couldnt repair the phone or if there were any further difficulties. Indeed, as 
outlined above, it was made very clear around claim time that any costs for additional repair, 
upgrades or replacements will not be covered  and that Mrs and Mr H needed to contact 
Assurant again to follow the alternative claims process if there was any further problems. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman