DRN-4039370
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about the performance of her Standard Life Assurance Limited 
pension plan, saying that although she appreciates that the value of pension funds can 
fluctuate, her plan value had reduced markedly over the year up to July 2022.
Although Standard Life has, in response to her complaint, told Mrs P that the funds in which 
she was invested were of a higher risk nature, she has said that she wouldnt have 
knowingly agreed to this kind of investment strategy.
What happened
The investigator who considered this complaint set out the background to the complaint in 
her assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
Mrs P contacted Standard Life on 4 August 2022, following the receipt of her yearly 
statement. Mrs P asked for a full and detailed explanation of how Standard Life
had allowed her pension to suffer a loss of around £18,000 in the previous year and the drop
in the estimated value at retirement.
Standard Life responded on 25 August 2022. It explained that market conditions had
been at their most volatile due to recent events and the funds in which Mrs Ps pension was
invested had a high risk rating. Both had impacted the pension plans value.
Mrs P then complained on 1 September 2022, saying that the response she received 
put the onus on her for the poor performance. Mrs P said that Standard Life should have 
warned her about the volatile conditions and acted on them as the managers. Mrs P 
questioned whether these events had happened without warning, and whether nothing could 
have been done to stop the loss. Mrs P said that this was particularly confusing, given the 
anticipated increase by her retirement date.
Standard Life responded on 25 October 2022, reiterating the reasons  the external factors -
for the impact on Mrs Ps pension value.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mrs P referred the matter to this service.
The investigator who considered the matter didnt think that the complaint should be upheld, 
saying the following in summary:
A downturn in fund values didnt mean that the fund had been mismanaged  rather 
this was a result of external global factors and wasnt restricted to Standard Life.
Over 60% of Mrs Ps pension funds were invested in higher risk funds with a 6 or 
7 volatility rating, where 1 was the lowest and 7 was the highest. The 
investigator enclosed a document which explained fund volatility.
Standard Life had provided no advice as to which fund Mrs P should invest in, and 
there was no obligation upon it to switch Mrs Ps funds when markets became 
volatile.
Mrs P responded, saying that she had no idea what the document provided by the 
investigator was telling her, but it was nevertheless crystal clear that it was irrelevant. 
She added that there was no mention, nor material provided, in relation to when she started 
the plan and the terms and conditions which applied at the time. There was also no 
information and explanation as to the nature of the event itself which was the subject of her 
complaint, Mrs P said.
The investigator replied, saying that she understood the crux of Mrs Ps complaint to be the 
decline in performance in the previous year, and noted that since she began the plan in 1991 
she had made several fund switches  and so any documentation from the inception of the 
plan would be of limited relevance.
The investigator said that the purpose of sending the previous document was to demonstrate 
the volatility of the funds in which Mrs P was invested. Up to date information about the 
funds and their risk/volatility rating would have been available to Mrs P during the life of her 
plan, she said.
In response, Mrs P queried the funds switches which had taken place in her plan, and said 
that the basic point was that neither she nor her husband had ever taken, and would never 
take, high risk financial activities. Rather they without exception always adopted low to 
moderate risk activities.
The investigator acknowledged Mrs Ps concerns, saying that it seemed to be the case that 
the investment strategy and Mrs Ps approach to investment were different. But as Standard 
Life had only invested upon the instructions given, it wasnt responsible for this, she added.
But the investigator said that if Mrs P had relied on information provided by Standard Life 
when making investment decisions, she could take this into account.
Mrs P replied to say that the documentary evidence provided by the investigator supported 
the position that all future contributions from 1999 should have been allocated to the fixed 
interest fund, and that nothing had been switched since then. An additional lump sum of 
£20,000 was invested in 2015 in five individual funds, but this shouldnt have affected the 
existing investment which should have remained in the fixed interest fund.
Mrs P also said that she could see no reference in the documentary evidence of risk levels 
being mentioned.
The investigator then enquired further of Standard Life as to how Mrs Ps pension had been 
invested, and it provided detail relating to the lower risk funds in which Mrs P had previously 
been invested and the higher risk funds in which she was now invested.
But Mrs P said, in response, that there was no documentary evidence to support the position 
that she had agreed to such risk, and she reiterated that she and her husband had always 
been risk averse.
The investigator noted that Standard Life had confirmed that the fund switches had been 
instigated by Mrs P or her financial adviser, and the further pension contribution in 2015, 
invested as it was in funds with a volatility rating of between 5 and 7, wasnt consistent 
with a risk averse investor. The investigator sent Mrs P a copy of her investment instruction.Mrs P responded, saying that, although she had picked the funds by name, it wasnt made 
clear that they were high risk. And she said that it remained the case that the high risk rating 
of her pension funds  and corresponding falls in value - was the main issue.
The investigator noted Mrs Ps comments, but said that unless Mrs P had requested fund 
information from Standard Life and it had provided incorrect information in response, it 
couldnt be held responsible for Mrs Ps decision to invest without the risk information about 
each fund.
The investigator also requested a record of the fund switches for Mrs Ps plan, and Standard 
Life provided the instructions provided by Mrs P to invest in the particular funds. The 
investigator conveyed these to Mrs P for her information.
Mrs P acknowledged receipt of these, but noted that the investigator hadnt provided any 
copies of any letters from Standard Life advising her as to the risk factors of her choices.
As agreement couldnt be reached on the matter, its been referred to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, although I know this will disappoint Mrs P, Ive reached broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator, and for similar reasons.
Now that Mrs P has been provided with the investment instructions shes issued over the 
years, I dont think it can reasonably be in doubt that Standard Life has simply been 
implementing those instructions, which has resulted in the current asset split of Mrs Ps 
pension plan. And that there has therefore been no error in the making of the investments 
themselves. 
I also think that Mrs P is probably aware that this service wouldnt consider the matter of 
fund performance, acknowledging as she has that the value of pension funds can rise or fall 
as a result of global events and economic and financial factors over which a company such 
as Standard Life would have no control. 
Nor, as set out by the investigator, would Standard Life have an obligation to switch Mrs P 
into different funds to try to mitigate the effects of such external factors  indeed, to do so 
without prior instruction or agreement from the policyholder could itself well be the subject of 
justifiable complaint.
I note that the point Mrs P has made in her most recent correspondence with the investigator 
is that, when making her investment decisions, she wasnt made aware of the risk rating 
attached to the nominated funds.
But I dont really think there would have been much utility in Standard Life sending Mrs P or 
her financial adviser information about the risk/volatility rating once it had received 
instructions to invest in particular funds. Standard Life was simply reacting to  and acting 
upon - investment instructions, and I think it would quite reasonably have assumed that, prior 
to sending the investment instruction, either Mrs P or her financial adviser  or both - would 
have satisfied themselves that the funds were the right ones for her.
There may well be a case to answer if Mrs P feels that she has been advised to invest in 
funds which are unsuited to her, but I dont think that it is one for which Standard Life should, or fairly and reasonably could, be held to account.
My final decision
Therefore, for the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman