DRN-4233454
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc wrongly refused to refund him several 
disputed transactions from his Barclays Euro account and his Barclays current account. 
What happened
Mr M said that on 17 October 2022 he made a transfer from his Barclays current account to 
an internet only bank account as he was due to travel for work in mainland Europe and he 
always used this account when travelling. 
The next day as he was packing and getting ready to go to the airport, he noticed a payment 
into his Barclays current account which he knew nothing about and then payments from his 
Barclays current account to the internet only account. 
Mr M said he called Barclays on the way to the airport and initially Barclays were unable to 
clarify from which account the payment into Mr Ms current account was made. Eventually it 
transpired it was from Mr Ms euro only Barclays account.
 
Mr M is adamant he didnt make these transactions bar the one for £1,000 on 17 October 
2022.
Barclays ultimately said that as these disputed transactions were authorised by devices 
registered to Mr Ms accounts there was no point of compromise and therefore it would not 
be refunding them. 
So, Mr M brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of the of the view that Barclays 
hadnt done anything wrong. Mr M disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
I am also dealing with Mr Ms complaint against this internet only bank account which will be 
dealt with separately. So, this decision merely concerns Mr Ms accounts with Barclays. 
The transactions at issue are the following but please note there does appear to be roughly 
an hours time difference with some of the transactions possibly due to the difference 
between UK time and that on mainland Europe.
Time Method Amount From To IP address Device
14:21:08 Online 10,000 
EuroBarclays 
EuroBarclays 
currentavailable Windows 
computer 
Chrome 106.0 
(windows 10)
14:21:36 Online £3,768 Barclays 
currentInternet 
Bankavailable and 
the same as 
above Windows 
Computer 
Chrome 106.0 
(windows 10)
14:43 Mobile £8,482.52 Barclays 
currentInternet 
bankavailable but a 
different one 
to both above. Mobile Phone 
iPhone 15.2
Under the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) Barclays is under a duty to pay authorised 
transactions. Authorisation and consent under the PSRs are a formal requirement. 
A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer .. 
if the payer has given its consent to the execution of the payment transaction or 
series of payment transactions of which that payment transaction forms a part.
Such consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure 
agreed between the payer and its payment service provider.
What this means for Mr M is that these transactions had to have been done by devices 
registered to his accounts or by logins into online banking which were then appropriately 
authorised. Both investigators shared the relevant information they were permitted to share 
with Mr M showing that all the relevant procedures were done using devices registered to Mr 
Ms account to include using the appropriate FaceID and indeed the appropriate two factor 
authentication requirement for the online banking. And I dont consider it appropriate to 
repeat this here given our decisions are published. 
This shows me that there was no point of compromise in the above transactions which 
showed me that someone other than Mr M using his phone or computer with the correct 
login details and card details was doing these transactions. Given Mr M would have only 
known the passcodes, had not lost his phone and indeed hadnt lost his card which was 
necessary for the PINsentry logins when required too, there is nothing to show that someone 
other than him was making these transactions. 
Further Mr M essentially has no loss here as the transactions were from and to accounts in 
his own name. Any ostensible loss didnt happen with these transactions. 
Mr M also complained about the service he received from Barclays throughout all of this. 
And I have listened to the various call recordings too, many of which did not show Barclays 
up in a positive light. Barclays admitted its service was poor and offered to pay Mr M £240 
compensation for this. I consider this is broadly fair and in line with what I would have 
required Barclays to pay had it not offered it itself. I am unsure whether Mr M contacted 
Barclays as he was requested to do in the final response letter to accept this compensation. 
And obviously that is a matter for Mr M to decide. But its my view that this compensation is 
reasonable.
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint, save that I think 
its appropriate that Barclays pays Mr M the offered compensation if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman