DRN-3832932
The complaint
Mr W complains that PrePay Technologies Limited didnt do enough to prevent him losing
money to a scam.
Mr W has brought his complaint with the help of a representative, but for ease of reading Ill
mostly just refer to Mr W himself and will ascribe the representatives comments to him.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In January 2022 Mr W was sadly the victim of a scam. He was called by someone
impersonating PrePay and was tricked into making three payments totalling £7,800. The
scammers knew a lot about Mr W and presented a convincing situation telling him that his
account was under threat, and he needed to move his funds to a safe account.
As a result of this Mr W set up a new payee and made the following payments from his
PrePay account:
Time and Date Amount Recipient Bank
5 January 2022 4.14pm £4,900 M
5 January 2022 4.24pm £2,500 M
5 January 2022 4.31pm £400 M
When Mr W later realised hed been the victim of a scam he reported this to PrePay.
Ultimately PrePay declined to offer him a refund. They also said theyd been in contact with
M. It appears that only a nominal amount (around £1.50) remained in the recipient account 
and its unclear whether this has already been returned to PrePay and then Mr W. A
complaint was made and when PrePay maintained their position the matter was referred to
our service.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Because
she thought PrePay should have intervened in the first payment and that this would have
resulted in the scam being discovered, she recommended that they provide Mr W with a full
refund plus 8% simple interest. Mr W accepted this outcome but PrePay didnt. They said
they agreed they should have done more in relation to the second and third payments. But
they felt liability should be shared with M and they offered to refund Mr W 50% of his loss.
This offer was later shared with Mr W who didnt accept it. As agreement couldnt be found,
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
In July 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to that of our Investigator. So, Im issuing
this provisional decision to give both sides a further opportunity to comment prior to finalising
my decision.
There are various longstanding obligations which mean firms like PrePay should be alert to
the potential of fraud and scams and that they should act in their customers best interests.
But there are clearly competing demands between stopping and checking payments and
allowing customers free access to their funds. Ive thought carefully about this complaint in
light of those competing priorities.
When Mr W set up a new payee and instructed the first payment for £4,900 this wasnt
something he regularly did and differed in relation to how he used his account month on
month. This was also a greater sum than he commonly sent from his account. But in the
circumstances of this complaint and Mr Ws prior usage of his account, I dont think this was
sufficiently unusual that Id have expected PrePay to have done more before following the
instructions Mr W provided. Over a period of time, it isnt uncommon for customers to
occasionally instruct payments over and above their usual monthly expenditure. There were
no further risk factors such as the payment going to a business associated with pre-paid
cards or cryptocurrency. The payment also didnt drain the account, leaving a significant
balance of around £3,000 at the time.
But by the time Mr W instructed the second payment a few minutes later, I think the
threshold was crossed where its reasonable to have expected PrePay to have stopped that
payment and taken some further steps. By this point there was a second significant payment
being requested almost immediately after the first to the same newly setup payee. The
cumulative value was also up to £7,400 and the account balance had been significantly
reduced leaving only a few hundred pounds remaining.
Id have expected PrePay to have made contact with Mr W to ask about the purpose of the
payment he was instructing. And given Mr W believed he was already dealing with PrePay, I
think the impersonation scam would have soon come to light and the second and third
payments wouldnt have been sent. As such I think PrePay should refund the total of the
second and third payments, £2,900. And as Mr W has been without this money since losing
it to the scam, they should add 8% simple interest (yearly) to that amount.
Ive considered whether Mr W should bear some responsibility for his own loss due to
contributory negligence such that I should make a reduction in my intended award. But in the
circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded I should. I dont think Mr W reasonably
could or should have known that he wasnt dealing with the genuine PrePay when instructing
the payments relevant to this complaint  it seems he was taken in by a convincing and
compelling scam.
Im aware that PrePay have offered Mr W 50% of his loss and that this is greater than my
intended award. It is a matter for PrePay as to whether they still wish to honour this offer to
their customer Mr W. But as I only think PrePay ought to have stopped the second and third
payments, thats all I intend to require them to pay.
For completeness, the evidence from M shows that the funds were moved from the recipient
account very promptly. So, I dont think there were any failings by PrePay which impacted
what could be returned. I also dont think its likely the scam coming to light sooner would
have impacted whether any of the first payment remained available for recovery. Its mostlikely this would have been moved on in the time it would have taken PrePay to contact M
and for them to action the notification.
My provisional decision
For the reasons outlined above, but subject to any further information I receive from either
Mr W or PrePay Technologies Limited, I intend to uphold this complaint.
I intend to require PrePay Technologies Limited to pay Mr W £2,900. PrePay may reduce
this by the amount (if any) already received from M and returned to Mr W (as long as the
recovered funds came from payments two or three). 8% simple interest (yearly) should be
added to the amount to be paid to be calculated from the date of loss to the date of
settlement.
PrePay responded and said they accepted my provisional decision. Mr W disagreed and 
made some further points which Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has highlighted the British Standards Institutes (BSI) PAS 17271 (2017)  Protecting 
Customers from Financial Harm from Fraud Code which he says supports his position that 
PrePay ought to have intervened in the first payment. Ive considered this, but it doesnt 
change my mind as to the point at which I think it was reasonable to expect PrePay to have 
done more. 
Mr W also mentioned Confirmation of Payee (CoP). This is a scheme through which the 
sender of funds can check whether the name on the account they are sending money to, 
matches what they expect. However, at the time of these payments, it was not mandatory for 
PrePay to have this system in place (and theyve confirmed they didnt). So, whilst I agree 
CoP is useful to combat the type of scam Mr W fell victim to, I cant fairly criticise PrePay for 
not having it in place at the time, when there was no requirement for them to do so. 
Overall, nothing Mr W has submitted has persuaded me to deviate from the outcome 
explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
PrePay Technologies Limited must pay Mr W £2,900. PrePay may reduce
this by the amount (if any) already received from M and returned to Mr W (as long as the
recovered funds came from payments two or three). 
8% simple interest (yearly) should be added to the amount to be paid and should be 
calculated between the date of loss and the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 Richard Annandale
Ombudsman