DRN-2880247
The complaint
Ms L complains about the advice given by Prydis Wealth Limited when she transferred the 
benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) it recommended.
What happened
I understand Ms L began working for her employer in 1980. She had a workplace pension 
stemming from that employment. The pension was in three parts  the DB scheme, another 
part providing a guaranteed lump sum when she reached a set age and a pension both she 
and her employer contributed to which was investments linked  effectively a defined 
contribution scheme. The DB scheme was the largest part of her overall workplace pension. 
In September 2016, it had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £550,012.02.
Ms L has said she was introduced to Prydis by a colleague. In February 2016, a fact find 
document was filled out by Ms L. This noted her primary goals for contacting Prydis were 
raising money and retirement planning. It was recorded that she was 51, divorced, 
employed full time and in good health. She had three children, two of which were noted as 
still being dependent as they were students. The fact find noted that her intended retirement 
age was 65 and that Ms L was looking to purchase a house. And in a section where Ms L 
was asked to summarise her objectives, goals and aspirations she said Following my 
divorce I am looking to purchase a new house. I would like to know from age 55 how much 
am I able to withdraw from my pension tax-free to reduce my mortgage and what is my 
monthly pension income likely to be when I retire if I make a withdrawal.
A risk tolerance assessment questionnaire was completed at the same time. This recorded 
Ms Ls attitude to risk (ATR). And this was recorded as being low or a two on a scale of 
one to ten.
Ive seen copies of emails between Prydis and Ms L from July 2016. In an email on 10 July 
2016 Prydis summarised that Ms L was keen to buy a house and see any borrowing paid off 
at retirement. It also said she hoped to target an income of £50,000 per year in retirement 
and was likely to retire at age 60. The email said, the answer is probably to borrow enough 
so you leave your pension to mature and went on to say that as you have no spouse or 
dependents to provide for, which your final salary schemes cost in, you might, at age 59, 
assess whether you would prefer to liquidate these final salary benefits in to a fund you can 
control in retirement also to possibly even provide your children with a legacy. The email 
suggested, alternatively, a mortgage could be taken on an interest only basis and then 
repaid from pension benefits. But it said this would be clarified after Prydis carried out some 
analysis and explained the analysis would be undertaken by a specific adviser. 
There were further emails exchanged in the days following this where a mortgage specialist 
was mentioned as also having been introduced. The adviser also set out a fee structure 
should Prydis be asked to review and provide advice on transferring a pension.
In an email on 21 July 2016, Ms L said I am not looking to transfer my pension so I think it 
will be best to complete the review at a later stage. The value of my pension is sufficient 
information
Prydis replied the same day, explaining that a review of transferring may be worthwhile as it 
seemed unlikely the level of income Ms L was hoping to achieve in retirement could be 
achieved by her existing provisions. And after this, Ms L agreed to proceed with a review.
On 2 September 2016, sent Ms L a suitability report and a covering letter. And in summary 
these documents set out that Prydis advised Ms L to transfer her pension benefits from the 
DB scheme portion of her workplace pension into a SIPP. And it recommended she invest in 
a bespoke portfolio, with Prydis acting as discretionary fund manager (DFM). It did not 
recommend that Ms L make any changes to the other parts of her workplace pension.
The suitability report reiterated Ms Ls circumstances, noting she was now 52. It noted that 
she was in the process of buying a property, which required a mortgage of approximately 
£340,000. No other liabilities were recorded, and Ms L was said to have other savings and 
investments totalling approximately £61,000.
The suitability report noted that Ms Ls ATR was low and said people in this category have 
a low tolerance for risk, and are likely to be concerned about the possibility of losing money. 
You would probably prefer your investment to fluctuate less and make more modest returns 
than risk losing money for higher returns. This means you should not expect the value of 
your investments to rise much more than if you had kept your money in a bank account or 
other low risk investment. It also recorded, in respect of capacity for loss, that a significant 
loss incurred by your pension would (Prydis emphasis) impact on your standard of living.
The report noted that Ms Ls objectives were to retire at age 60 and again that shed like to 
target an income of £50,000 per year in retirement. It estimated that at age 60, Ms L would 
still have an outstanding mortgage of approximately £230,000  although I understand this 
was based on interest rates being unchanged and payments being up to date. Under her 
existing pension arrangements, as 60 was the normal retirement age of the scheme, Ms L 
would be entitled to either an estimated full annual income of £30,807 (£20,940 from the DB 
scheme and the rest from annuities purchased using the value of the other two parts of her 
workplace pension) or tax free cash (TFC) of approximately £146,315, from across the 
three parts of her pension, and a reduced pension of £22,452 (£15,053 of which coming 
from the DB scheme). In both scenarios the annual pension would continue to increase in 
retirement.
The suitability report referred to a transfer value analysis (TVAS) having been arranged. 
And said that this estimated the critical yield (CY)  the growth rate required of a new 
pension to allow Ms L to purchase equivalent benefits that would match the guaranteed 
benefits of her DB scheme  was 6.5% if taking the full pension. Or 3.82% if Ms L took the 
maximum TFC and a reduced pension at age 60. It compared this with the performance of 
the Mixed Investment 0% - 35% shares sector average  which Prydis said was a 
reasonable indicator of investment returns that had been achieved by a low risk investor  
suggesting the required growth was potentially achievable based on these averages. But the 
report also went on to say that the CY had limitations and if Ms L was not intending to 
purchase an annuity was somewhat irrelevant.The report then went on to explain the reason Prydis was recommending that Ms L transfer 
her benefits. It said this was primarily because you will not be able to achieve your 
retirement goals if you leave your pension as it is. And it went on to say I am more 
concerned that you mortgage will become unaffordable in the future as a result of increasing 
interest rates, than the risk that the cash equivalent transfer value of your [DB scheme] will 
not provide you with as much income as remaining within the scheme. It said assuming 
Ms L transferred and the new pension grew by 4% per annum, shed have enough TFC at 
age 60 to clear her mortgage and could purchase an annuity with the remaining provisions 
paying a higher net income than the DB scheme. Or Ms L could leave the funds invested 
and drawdown an income, which the report again indicated would be higher than she would 
receive under the DB scheme.
The report went on to talk about the impact inflation and investment performance could have 
on this outcome. And it explained that the risk presented by inflation was manageable if 
your pension funds remain actively invested in line with at least a low to moderate attitude to 
investment risk. The report noted this was slightly higher than the Ms Ls ATR based on the 
risk questionnaire shed completed. And said this should therefore be discussed in further 
detail if Ms L agreed to proceed with the recommendation.
The covering letter accompanying the report also mentioned ATR. It said Whilst I would not 
normally recommend transferring away from a guaranteed, inflation-linked retirement income 
to a cautious investor, I am very conscious that you are about to take on a large mortgage to 
enable you to purchase a home. It reiterated the advisers concerns that the mortgage may 
be unaffordable and that these concerns were greater than the transfer providing a lower 
income that the DB scheme. So, said that a further discussion about risk should take place 
to review whether your answers to the risk questionnaire accurately reflect your 
requirements. 
The suitability report itself concluded by recommending a specific SIPP provider, 
summarising fees and saying that as part of the arrangement Prydis would continue to 
provide ongoing annual financial advice. 
I understand a meeting between Ms L and the adviser took place shortly after this report was 
issued. Prydis says, at that meeting, it was agreed that Ms Ls ATR should in fact be 
considered low-moderate or a four on a scale of one to ten. So Prydis felt a transfer was 
appropriate. And the transfer was subsequently carried out in line with the recommendation 
made.
In 2019, Ms L raised concerns with Prydis about a couple of the funds part of her pension 
portfolio was invested in  one in particular which had been suspended. She didnt think that 
investment in this fund was appropriate for her given her ATR. 
Prydis didnt think it had been wrong to include this fund as part of her portfolio, noting that 
while some funds had a higher risk profile than others, the diversification of Ms Ls portfolio 
meant the overall risk was appropriate for her
Ms L then referred her complaint to our service. When doing so she said she had concerns 
in general about how her funds had been invested. She noted shed completed a risk profile 
at the time of the advice that had shown her ATR to be low and she believed the 
investments were not in line with this. She also said one of the reasons Prydis had suggested for returns being low was that her 
ATR was low and charges negated most of the profit. And Ms L questioned why therefore 
she was advised to invest into this type of portfolio in the first place, as she had made her 
ATR clear. Ms L has said she was not considering transferring her pension before speaking 
to Prydis. But was persuaded to do so because it indicated it could grow the fund 
substantially. She also said that she had not gone into the discussions targeting an income 
of £50,000 per year and this was only discussed because of how much Prydis indicated it 
could grow the fund to.
Our Investigator considered the suitability of the advice to transfer as a whole. Having done 
so, she didnt think the advice was suitable and recommended that the complaint be upheld 
and that Prydis pay compensation in line with the methodology set out by the regulator for 
addressing unsuitable DB transfer advice. In summary, she didnt think the transfer was in 
Ms Ls best interests as she didnt think it was reasonably likely that Ms L wouldve been 
better off as a result  particularly bearing in mind Ms Ls attitude to risk.
Prydis did not agree. It said Ms Ls complaint had been about the investment of the benefits, 
rather than the advice as a whole. In any event though, it said it still felt the advice was 
suitable as Ms L could not have met her objectives by remaining in her DB scheme and the 
transfer meant she was better off.
Our Investigator said they werent minded to change their opinion. So, as agreement could 
not be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide.
I informed Prydis that I was satisfied that it was appropriate to consider the advice to transfer 
given the concerns Ms L raised as part of the complaint being referred to our service. And I 
was satisfied that Prydis had been given sufficient opportunity to respond to this. 
Prydis reiterated that only through transferring was Ms L able to achieve the flexibility she 
needed to meet her objectives.
Ms L also added, in addition to being unhappy about the advice to transfer, she was still 
concerned with how the funds had been invested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Prydis' actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Prydis 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Ms Ls best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in her best interests.
Financial viability 
Prydis said when advising Ms L it was more concerned about the ongoing affordability of her 
mortgage than whether the CETV would provide as much income as shed have received by 
remaining in the DB scheme. But whether or not Ms L was likely to receive greater 
retirement benefits as a result of transferring is in my view an important consideration when 
looking at whether the transfer was in her best interests. Particularly so where, as was the 
case here, Ms Ls DB scheme benefits made up the majority of her retirement provisions.
The suitability report also clearly recorded that the objectives Prydis was considering were 
that Ms L wanted to retire at age 60 and target an income of £50,000. And that the 
recommendations were designed to meet your objectives as detailed. 
Ms L says that the figure of £50,000 per year was not initially one of her objectives. And it 
was only after Prydis indicated it believed it could achieve significant growth, that this figure 
was first discussed. Looking at the summary of objectives Ms L wrote when completing a 
fact find in February 2016 an income of this level doesnt appear to have been an initial 
objective. Her objectives were instead purchasing a new property and understanding how 
much she could take from her pension to help fund this. By the point of the emails in July 
2016, the objective of achieving a certain level of income seems to have been added. And 
Ms L doesnt appear to have disputed being interested in this, after that point. But Im 
inclined to agree, on balance, that this wasnt one of her initial objectives. And so, I dont 
think this was necessarily a legitimate objective of hers  rather it was something that would 
be nice to have. But regardless, Prydis said its advice was designed to meet this objective. 
Ms Ls DB scheme had a normal scheme retirement age of 60. So, she could take full 
benefits at that time. Her provisions werent though projected to achieve an income of 
£50,000. So, the purpose of the advice seems to in fact have been achieving better benefits 
 if it was to meet the recorded objectives. And so, this reinforces that the likelihood of doing 
so was an important consideration as to whether a transfer was in Ms Ls best interests.The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case. 
Ms L was 52 at the time of the advice. The suitability report indicated Ms L hoped to retire at 
age 60. And it said that the critical yield required to match Ms Ls benefits at age 60 was 
6.5% if she took a full pension and 3.82% if she took TFC and a reduced pension. 
This compares with the discount rate of 3.4% per year for seven years to retirement in this 
case. For further comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the 
middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%. 
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Ms Ls 
low attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little point in Ms L giving 
up the guarantees available to her through her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the 
same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest critical yield was 
greater than the discount rate, I think Ms L was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall 
value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with her recorded 
attitude to risk. And the DB scheme benefits already failed to meet the income objective 
Prydis said it intended to.
As Ive mentioned, Prydis said in its covering letter, that accompanied the suitability report, it 
wouldnt usually recommend a DB transfer to a cautious investor such as Ms L. But because 
it had concerns about the size of the mortgage she was about to take on, a further 
discussion would be appropriate to see if this truly reflected Ms Ls ATR. And it has said that 
Ms L agreed, at a meeting after the suitability report was issued, that her attitude to risk 
should in fact be recorded as low-moderate. 
I havent seen anything to suggest that the answers Ms L gave in her risk tolerance 
assessment didnt accurately reflect her opinion. And these supported that she had a low 
ATR. I can also see that in August 2016, Ms L completed a client agreement. This included 
some further questions about her circumstances and experience. And it included a question 
asking if Ms L wanted to impose any restrictions on the type of investments that might be 
recommended. Ms L wrote, in response to this I wish to protect my capital sum  i.e. 
minimal risk. Which I think further reinforced that Ms Ls ATR was low. 
So, I think Prydis had already arguably gathered sound information about her attitude to risk. 
And if, as Prydis has suggested, it wouldnt usually recommend a DB transfer to someone 
with the ATR Ms L had, I find it concerning that it gave a positive recommendation to transfer 
 certainly before any further discussion took place or was documented. And Im not sure 
suggesting the ATR may not be correct and should be revisited shows regard for Ms Ls 
actual circumstances. Rather, looking at it now, it appears like an attempt to make Ms Ls 
circumstances fit the narrative of the recommendation rather than that the recommendation 
was based on her circumstances and in her best interests.
In any event though, even if Ms L did actually have a low-moderate ATR, taking into 
account the critical yield, discount rate and regulators projection rates, I still dont think shed 
have received greater benefits by transferring. At best she mightve achieved similar 
benefits. But there was little point taking a risk to do so. And again, I think it was more likely 
Ms L would receive benefits of a lower overall value than the DB scheme. In the suitability report Prydis downplayed the critical yield and said it had limitations. It 
indicated it felt the true critical yield was likely to be lower. And it said that if a growth rate of 
4% was achieved, it estimated that Ms L would be able to access enough TFC to pay off her 
mortgage and take a greater net monthly income than shed receive under the DB scheme. 
And it provided cash flow modelling to support this.
However, this income it referred to was not at the level of £50,000  the objective the advice 
was apparently intended to achieve. Cash flow modelling showed that, if 4% growth was 
achieved and Ms L took an income at that level, her pension funds would be entirely 
depleted by age 76. Which was several years below her average life expectancy - 
particularly given she was recorded as being in good health. So, this objective wouldnt have 
been achieved at that level of growth.
And the 4% figure Prydis used doesnt appear to have accounted for the fees payable under 
the new arrangement  0.25% to the pension provider and 1% to Prydis for ongoing advice 
and management. So, the true figure of growth required under the scenario Prydis 
highlighted was higher. And again, this wasnt to achieve the income objective, rather just to 
better the existing DB scheme benefits. And, based on the discount rate and regulators 
projection rates, I dont think this was realistically achievable given Ms Ls ATR (even before 
accounting for these fees). 
Prydis provided a comparison in the suitability report to the returns achieved by the Mixed 
investment 0% - 35% shares sector over the previous 1,3,5 and 10 years to support that it 
believed the growth Ms L needed was achievable. It said that it felt this was a reasonable 
indicator of investment returns that could be achieved by a low risk investor. Notwithstanding 
the fact that Prydis said it wouldnt usually recommend a transfer to someone with a low ATR 
like Ms L was documented as having at the point of the suitability report, as Prydis will know, 
past performance is no guarantee for future performance. And so, I consider the discount 
rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in this regard in the long 
term rather than projecting historic returns forward.
So, from a financial viability perspective I dont think the transfer was in Ms Ls best interests. 
The information suggests it was unlikely to meet the apparent income objective. And that it 
was also likely Ms L would end up with a lower income than her DB scheme would provide, 
as the growth required to better this is unlikely to have been achievable given her ATR.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. There 
might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing overall 
lower benefits. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
Again, the suitability report says that Ms Ls objectives were that she wanted to retire at 60 
and target an income of £50,000. 
The DB scheme normal retirement age was 60. So, she didnt require alternative more 
flexible arrangements to be able to take her benefits at that time.
And, as Ive explained, Im not sure the target income referred to was a genuine objective of 
Ms Ls. But in any event, for the reason Ive already explained, I dont think this seems to 
have been achievable and accessing her benefits flexibly to meet this goal wouldve resulted 
in the pension fund likely being depleted entirely within Ms Ls lifetime. So, I dont think 
flexibility in order to do this was appropriate or in her best interests.Prydis said it was concerned that the mortgage Ms L was about to take may become 
unaffordable for her. And this was a greater concern than potentially ending up with lower 
benefits. So, the indication was that it felt flexibility in how Ms L could access her pension 
and future access to TFC to clear the mortgage was important to address this.
When Ms L contacted Prydis, she said she was interested in understanding how much she 
could draw from her pension benefits to pay towards her mortgage in the future and how 
much income this would leave her. Suggesting she was thinking about this. And I can see 
Prydis email to Ms L on 10 July 2016, summarising its understanding of what she was 
looking into, said shed indicated she might look at cashing in her DB scheme benefits at age 
59  just before retiring. But she doesnt seem to have been considering transferring or 
making a decision in respect of this with her mortgage in mind, before taking advice. Indeed, 
she confirmed in an email to Prydis on 21 July 2016, she wasnt looking to transfer her 
pension benefits at that time. And I think its interesting that this wasnt listed as an objective 
in the suitability report.
In any event though, Ms L was only 52 at the time of the advice. So could not access any 
benefits from her pension for at least three years. So, the pension couldnt have been used 
to address any affordability issues during that time. And so, given it was an irreversible 
decision, I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
And while Prydis had said it had concerns, at the time of the advice I dont think Ms L had a 
genuine need to access TFC or her pension earlier than the scheme retirement age of 60. 
Ms L had confirmed she was intending to continue to work until age 60. And her income 
appears to have been sufficient to meet her commitments (including the new mortgage). 
Prydis said that it was concerned this mayve become unaffordable if interest rates changed. 
But the ongoing affordability of the mortgage ought to have been assessed as part of any 
mortgage advice  as was required by the regulator.
And in terms of addressing the balance through TFC at retirement, Prydis solution was not 
guaranteed and was dependent on achieving growth which involved investment risk, 
something Ms L was concerned about. And, as Ive said previously, Im not sure the level of 
growth this was based on was realistically achievable.
Im also conscious that in the suitability report, Prydis put forward a scenario to potentially 
address the mortgage balance while allowing Ms L to remain in the DB scheme. This 
involved keeping her benefits where they were until the scheme retirement age and then 
taking the maximum TFC from across all of her private pension arrangements. This would 
then be used to reduce the mortgage balance. The other parts of her private pension, 
outside of the DB scheme, could then be drawn flexibly to clear the mortgage balance within 
five years and support Ms Ls income until she began to receive state benefits. And these, 
coupled with the guaranteed pension of the DB scheme, would then provide her an income 
in retirement. There were variables that would impact this scenario  including how the 
mortgage was maintained in the meantime. But there were variables involved with 
transferring too  not least investment risk. So, I think, this indicates that flexibility in 
arrangements wasnt the only option. And while Ms Ls ongoing income would not be at the 
apparent target level, neither was the income provided by Prydis recommendation. And 
under the DB scheme the income was guaranteed and escalated.
So, taking all of this into account, I dont think Ms L had a genuine need for flexibility at the 
time of the advice and this couldve been considered at a later date, if it had become 
necessary.Death benefits
Prydis summary from its email on 10 July 2016 included the mention that, if Ms L looked to 
transfer at age 59, one of the reasons might be to leave a lasting legacy for her children. But 
this wasnt listed in the suitability report as being a reason for the advice.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And the lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension mightve been an attractive feature to Ms L. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here was what was best 
for Ms Ls retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in 
retirement. 
The CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump sum. But the 
sum remaining on death following a transfer, as well as being dependent on investment 
performance, wouldve also been reduced by any income Ms L drew in her lifetime. Ms L 
was recorded as being in good health, so its reasonable to think she was likely to draw 
benefits for a significant number of years. The cashflow analysis indicated that if 4% growth 
was achieved and Ms L drew a pension starting at around £35,000 per year, the fund was 
likely to last her for a significant amount of time and retain a high value. But this was 
dependent on achieving that growth rate (which again doesnt seem to have accounted for 
charges). And that growth rate appears unrealistic based on Ms Ls ATR.
Furthermore, if Ms L genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her death, I 
think Prydis couldve instead explored life insurance. So overall, I dont think different death 
benefits available through a transfer justified the recommendation to transfer.
Suitability of investments
Ms L has said she is concerned with some of the investments that Prydis, in its capacity as 
discretionary fund manager, recommended she invest in. Indeed this, and the performance 
of those investments, was the starting point of her original unhappiness. But as Im 
upholding the complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable 
for Ms L, it follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment 
recommendation in detail. This is because I think Ms L should have been advised to remain 
in the DB scheme and so the investments wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been 
given. And the recommendation Im making to put matters right, addresses this.
Summary
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Ms L was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Ms L was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. As Ive explained, the DB scheme provided full 
retirement benefits at Ms Ls intended retirement date. The retirement benefits were unlikely 
to be improved by transferring  and the target income certainly is highly unlikely to have 
been achieved for the time it would be required. And I dont think flexibility was needed at the 
time of the advice and a decision on this couldve been taken at a later date  if it was 
necessary at all, given Prydis suitability report set out a scenario where the repayment of 
the mortgage could potentially have been achieved without transferring.
So, I think Prydis shouldve advised Ms L to remain in her DB scheme.Of course, I have to consider whether Ms L would've gone ahead anyway, against Prydis' 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Ms L wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Prydis advice. Ms L was clear in her email of 21 
July 2016 that transferring her benefits wasnt something she was considering. It was only 
based on Prydis suggestion that this was subsequently considered. While Ms L held shares 
in her employers business, these seem to have been an employee benefit and Ive seen 
nothing to suggest she had significant experience as an investor. Ms L had a low attitude to 
risk and this pension accounted for the majority of her retirement provision. So, if Prydis, a 
professional adviser whose expertise she had sought out, had provided her with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in her best interests, I 
think she wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think Prydis should compensate Ms L for the unsuitable advice.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms L, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for Prydis unsuitable advice. I consider Ms L would 
have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/19 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Ms L whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or to wait for the any new guidance / rules to be published.
Ms L has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle her complaint. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Ms L. Prydis must therefore undertake a redress 
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, I understand Ms L has not yet retired. So, compensation should be based on the 
normal scheme retirement age of 60.This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Ls acceptance of the decision.
Prydis may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Ls 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Ls SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Ms Ls pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms L as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Ms L within 90 days of the date Prydis receives notification 
of her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Prydis to pay Ms L.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Prydis to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Prydis Wealth Limited 
to pay Ms L the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Prydis Wealth Limited to pay Ms L any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Prydis 
Wealth Limited to pay Ms L any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Prydis Wealth Limited pays Ms L the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Ms L.
If Ms L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Prydis Wealth Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms L can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman