DRN-3827767
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Arrow Global Limited failed to send her account statements. 
What happened
Last year, Mrs P referred a complaint about Arrows actions in relation to a debt it owns in 
her name to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The investigator for that case was satisfied 
Arrow had previously issued annual statements to Mrs P. But the investigator said Mrs P 
could request statements from Arrow following closure of that case if they hadnt been 
received. 
Arrow says it sent Mrs P the relevant statements in March 2022. Mrs P complained that 
Arrow hadnt sent her the statements in good time. Arrow issued a final response to Mrs P in 
June 2022. It said the original lender was unable to provide statements. Arrow arranged for 
screen prints showing payments made to the account since it had taken ownership to be 
provided. The screen prints showed Mrs P made payments until 2017. Arrow also sent Mrs 
P a £100 cheque to apologise for the delay in supply statement information. 
Mrs P referred her complaint to this service and explained she was concerned that the 
balance Arrow was seeking to collect was wrong. An investigator looked at Mrs Ps 
complaint. They thought Arrow had dealt with the case fairly and didnt ask it to do anything 
else. Mrs P didnt agree and said Arrow had failed in its obligation to send annual 
statements. As Mrs P didnt accept the investigators view, her complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ps asked us to confirm whether Arrow breached legislation requiring it to issue annual 
statements. I understand Mrs Ps concern that regular statements havent been sent. The 
regulations do require businesses to issue regular statements and I agree with Mrs P that 
she should be able to expect Arrow to comply. There are instances where failure to issue 
regular statements can make a debt unenforceable, but thats a matter for the courts to 
decide. 
Ive focused on how the delay in obtaining statements has impacted Mrs P. Arrow has sent 
in screenshots showing all payments made to the account since it was acquired. Looking at 
the information I can see payments being made until 2017. At that point, the outstanding 
balance was £2,155.30. Arrow went on to add some legal fees in 2019 but they were 
reversed in 2020, leaving the outstanding balance in the same position. 
Whilst I agree there were problems and delays in sending statements, I havent been 
persuaded those are grounds to tell Arrow to write off the outstanding balance. And I havent 
seen anything that indicates payments Mrs P has made havent been applied.
Arrow apologised for failing to issue statements and sent Mrs P a cheque for £100 for the 
inconvenience caused. As Ive said above, I cant tell Arrow to write off the balance on the 
basis statements werent issues. In my view, the £100 settlement fairly reflects the impact of 
the issues raised on Mrs P and is a reasonable way to resolve her complaint. As Im satisfied 
Arrow has already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
Im not telling it to take further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint because Arrow Global Limited has 
already agreed a settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman