DRN-4305871
The complaint
Mr N complains Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard charged him for a streaming 
service when he was meant to have a five-month free trial.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator for these reasons:
Barclays sent Mr N an email outlining a promotional offer where he could get five 
months free access to a streaming service. This email explained that he would need 
to click the relevant link in the email to sign up for the offer  and that is what Mr N 
did. However, four months later, he realised he was being charged for the service. 
Having reviewed this email, Ive seen that it explained a code would be needed to 
activate the promotional offer, and that this code would either be sent to Mr N or 
instructions would be available on the website. Mr N has said he never received an 
email with a code.
Barclays has been unable to evidence whether a code was emailed to Mr N, or if 
instructions were made available on the website. In light of this, Im persuaded its 
more likely than not that Mr N didnt have all the information he needed to ensure he 
signed up correctly and received the free trial. Barclays mistake meant he was 
charged for the streaming service, as such, they need to take steps to put things 
right. Mr Ns statements show he was charged for four months, and this totaled 
£27.96. So, this is the amount Barclays needs to refund him.
Mr N wants to be reimbursed for the value of five months access to the streaming 
service because the offer was meant to give him access for that period of time. Hes 
also mentioned that Barclays actions meant he didnt sign up for free trials on other 
services that were made available to him. Ive taken on board what Mr N has said, 
but I dont consider the refund Mr N he is asking for is fair in the circumstances. 
Thats because he cancelled the subscription after four months. As he didnt access 
or pay for the service during the fifth month, I dont consider he should be reimbursed 
for a cost he didnt incur. I also cant ignore the fact that it took around four months 
for Mr N to realise the issue complained of and he hasnt said he tried to sign up for 
the other services during that period. Moreover, he had until September 2023 to sign 
up to the services, but he chose to close his account around the time he raised his 
complaint. I appreciate Mr N was disappointed with the service hed received from 
Barclays, but it was his choice alone to close his account and lose access to the 
other free trials available.
Mr N has also asked to be compensated for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. It would have been disappointing and frustrating to find out he was 
being charged for the streaming service and raising this issue with Barclays would 
have caused him inconvenience. However, raising a complaint comes with inevitable 
inconvenience and this isnt something we would ordinarily make an award for. Mr N 
took the proactive steps (he saw fit) to resolve the issues with being charged. And its 
for this reason I dont consider an award for non-financial loss is appropriate in this 
case.
Given the above, Barclays should refund the £27.96 Mr N paid for the streaming 
service. Theyve already offered to refund the £20 monthly fee for Mr Ns card (as he 
asked for it to be closed), so they should also pay this.
For the reasons above, Im upholding Mr Ns complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding Mr Ns complaint about Barclay Bank UK PLC trading 
as Barclaycard.
To put things right, Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should:
Refund the monthly fees charged for the streaming service between 
1 December 2022 and 1 March 2023 (totaling £27.96).
If interest was charged on the monthly streaming service fees, this should be 
refunded to Mr N.
Refund the final £20 monthly fee Mr N was charged. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard should pay simple interest at 8% a year, from 
the dates the above fees were paid (streaming service fee and monthly fee for the card) until 
the date they are refunded. *
*If Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr N how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr N a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman