DRN-3674104
The complaint
The executor of the estate of the late Mr J, complains Scottish Widows Limited did not 
intervene when, in circumstances the executor argues were suspicious, Mr J surrendered his 
investments.      
What happened
Mr J held an investment with Scottish Widows. He was able to access and provide 
instructions on his investments by visiting his bank, who belonged to the same group of 
companies as Scottish Widows. Ill refer to this bank throughout my decision as Bank X. 
Across 2013 and 2014, Scottish Widows received a series of withdrawal instructions, some 
of them in-person at a Bank X branch, from Mr J. The withdrawals gradually depleted the 
investment until it was fully surrendered in May 2014. In total, a little more than £87,000 was 
withdrawn. In every instance, the money withdrawn from Scottish Widows was paid into one 
of Mr Js accounts with Bank X.
Mr J passed away in 2018. Around this time, his executor began making enquiries into how 
his money had been spent across the final years of his life. What they found gave them 
cause for concern that Mr J, who they identified as being vulnerable, may have been taken 
advantage of by a dishonest tradesman. The executors theorised this tradesman may have 
been behind the withdrawals from Mr Js investment with Scottish Widows. 
The executors raised a series of complaints on Mr Js behalf. When addressing Scottish 
Widows, they argued that: 
The size and frequency of Mr Js withdrawals was suspicious, and the firm shouldve 
done more to safeguard him.
The paperwork and signatures used to authorise the withdrawals contained 
inconsistencies which shouldve attracted suspicion from the firm.
Overall, mindful of his age and vulnerability, Scottish Widows had failed in its duty of 
care to Mr J.
In its reply, Scottish Widows defended its conduct on Mr Js investment. It argued 
safeguards were in place, and had it detected any suspicious activity, it wouldve been 
handled appropriately. It was satisfied the various withdrawal requests had originated from 
Mr J, and he was the sole beneficiary of any payments made, all of which were paid to his 
account with Bank X. As the executor disagreed with Scottish Widows findings, they 
referred the matter to our service.    
Our investigator didnt uphold the estates complaint. They found that: 
They werent persuaded there was enough evidence to conclude Mr J would likely 
have presented as being vulnerable when he accessed his investments.
They felt the signatures used to authorise the withdrawals were reasonably 
consistent, and that it was fair of Scottish Widows to have relied on them. 
A number of the withdrawals were arranged in a Bank X branch, and it was likely 
therefore that Mr Js identity wouldve been checked when processing the requests
The executor gave the appearance of accepting some of our investigators findings. But they 
argued that one withdrawal in particular was especially noteworthy. The suggestion being 
that in the executors eyes, this transaction at the very least shouldve alerted Scottish 
Widows that it may need to safeguard Mr J. As there was no agreement, the matter has 
been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The estates central argument here seems to be that Scottish Widows ought reasonably to 
have considered the various requests to withdraw money from Mr Js investment to be 
suspicious. And knowing this, the estate feels the firm should then have sought to discuss 
the withdrawals with Mr J in greater detail. The suggestion being that had Scottish Widows 
questioned the withdrawals, compelling evidence wouldve become apparent, which 
shouldve resulted in some sort of safeguarding activity being conducted, and the 
withdrawals being prevented. 
But for this argument to succeed, Id need to be persuaded that had Scottish Widows 
questioned or otherwise vetted the withdrawals from Mr Js investment in greater detail, that, 
acting fairly and reasonably, it shouldve prevented them from taking place. Mindful that the 
events in question took place many years ago, and evidence of what actually transpired is 
quite limited, Ive considered what Scottish Widows could likely have learnt had it questioned 
Mr J about the withdrawals across 2013 and 2014. 
The executor has argued it wouldve been readily apparent to anyone dealing with Mr J, that 
he was vulnerable. The suggestion here appears to be that were Mr J to have been 
questioned on his reasons for withdrawing from the investment, his answers arent likely to 
have satisfied the bank he was of sound mind. 
In support of this, the executor has provided a detailed account of their relationship with Mr 
J. As I understand it, a Power of Attorney was not sought for Mr J until 2016. The executor 
believes this may have come about following an intervention by Bank Xs staff, at the same 
branch where hed been accessing his investment in 2013 and 2014. They have however 
also noted that, according to those close to him, Mr Js health had been in decline prior to 
2016. 
Im happy to accept the executors account of Mr Js wellbeing on face value. But on balance, 
Im not persuaded Mr Js likely to have given Scottish Widows cause for concern when 
placing his withdrawal instructions. I can see a number of the disputed withdrawals were 
arranged face to face with members of Bank Xs branch staff. From what the executor has 
told us, and from the pattern of transactions, it seems Mr J may well have had regular 
interactions with these staff. It was these same staff, as the executor recalls it, whose 
intervention in the years following the withdrawals, led to greater care and assistance being 
given to Mr J. Because of this, and on the balance of probability, Im persuaded that had Mr 
J seemed especially vulnerable or at risk whilst he was accessing his money, that Bank X 
would likely have intervened much sooner than it did. The fact it did not do so, suggests to 
me its more likely that Mr J will have seemed capable of making his own decisions during 
the interactions in 2013 and 2014.  What seems to underpin the estates concerns with the withdrawals in question, is the 
suspicion that Mr J was being directed to make the withdrawals by the tradesman the 
executors have identified. The estate therefore seems to suggest that had he been 
questioned on his motives for withdrawing, it wouldve been apparent to Scottish Widows 
that Mr J was being economically abused. 
From the evidence presented to me, its not been possible to directly link any specific 
withdrawal with an unambiguous instance of economic abuse. The estate has suspicions, 
but no clear evidence of any occasions where Mr J was in fact coerced or manipulated into 
making withdrawals. The executors linked some of the larger withdrawals to sub-standard 
building works the tradesman carried out at Mr Js home address. But from what little is 
available to me, mindful that we are sadly making this assessment without Mr Js direct 
input, Im not persuaded Scottish Widows couldve reasonably concluded he was being 
abused, even if itd asked him more questions about his withdrawals. Given theres no 
dispute the tradesman was in fact carrying out some work, whatever in reality the quality of 
that work might have been, Mr J seems likely to have been able to give a plausible sounding 
reason for accessing his funds. 
I also think its worth considering that, at the time, theres been no suggestion Mr J was 
raising any concerns over his relationship with the tradesman in question. As I understand it, 
these concerns werent raised until years later. So even if the tradesman could be directly 
linked to the withdrawals, at the time, theres no evidence that this is likely to have seemed 
problematic to Mr J, such that him mentioning it to Scottish Widows could fairly or 
reasonably have given the firm any cause for concern. 
Ive also considered that, from Scottish Widows perspective, the purpose of all the 
withdrawals made from Mr Js investment was to increase the amount of available funds in 
his own accounts with Bank X. There was never an occasion across the period in question 
where Scottish Widows was asked to make a payment to anyone else other than Mr J. So, 
from Scottish Widows perspective, beyond the potential for growth on his investments, Mr J 
wont have lost anything as a direct result of any of the withdrawals it authorised. Its 
possible that, following these withdrawals, Mr J might have made onward transactions 
directly with Bank X. But if he did so, and those payments are disputed, this is a matter the 
estate must raise with Bank X directly if it has not already done so. Because I cannot fairly or 
reasonably hold Scottish Widows responsible for any subsequent transactions Bank X 
arranged on Mr Js behalf, which may have resulted in his money being paid away 
elsewhere. 
I can accept that, from the estates perspective, the depletion of Mr Js investment with 
Scottish Widows, mindful of his reportedly modest lifestyle, is likely to appear unusual. But 
theres not enough evidence of the concerns and suspicions the estate has, for me to 
conclude that further due diligence on Scottish Widows part shouldve led it to decline to 
process the withdrawals in 2013 and 2014. All of the withdrawals were authorised with a 
signature which appears to match Mr Js, many were conducted face to face at Bank X in a 
branch he frequented, and he was the sole beneficiary of all of the transactions in question.    
The executor has argued that one of the withdrawals, is a duplication of a previous request 
thats marked as second request. Their argument seems to be that this is evidence of 
either, Mr J losing track of his finances and being unaware that hed already received the 
first request. Or alternatively, that the tradesman manipulating him had been unable to locate 
the money in his accounts. As above, I accept these could be possibilities. But theres no 
evidence which persuades me either of these scenarios are more likely than Mr J simply 
deciding to reuse a copied instruction hed retained. Again, it is regrettable in this case that 
there is a dearth of evidence where Mr Js true motivations of signing these various 
withdrawals is concerned. And considering the matter as a whole, Im not persuaded that further due diligence on Scottish Widows part should have seen it conclude that the 
withdrawals should be prevented. 
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold the estates complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold the estates complaint about Scottish Widows Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr J 
to accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Marcus Moore
Ombudsman