DRN-3781824
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire agreement with Arval UK Limited 
was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
initial rental of £3,137.18 and the agreement was for an initial term of 36 months; with 
monthly repayments of £261.43.
Mr B has said that he had problems with the car throughout the term of the agreement, and it 
went into the garage on multiple occasions. Arval said he raised these issues with them on 
10 March 2022, and on 1 April 2022 they said they would look to end the agreement. On 11 
May 2022 Arval confirmed that Mr B could reject the car, and they terminated the agreement 
with immediate effect. They also offered to refund three months payments by way of 
compensation for the issues Mr B had suffered.
Mr B wasnt happy with Arvals response, and he didnt think Arval shouldve taken the 
payments for April and May 2022. So, he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, although Mr B had experienced a number if issues with the car, he 
didnt bring these to Arvals attention until March 2022. And Arval investigated the matter and 
confirmed Mr B could reject the car in about eight weeks. Which the investigator thought was 
a reasonable timescale.
The investigator also said that, although Arval indicated Mr B could reject the car on 1 April 
2022, they didnt confirm this until 11 May 2022. So, he thought it was reasonable that Mr B 
continue to make payments during this period. And he thought the three-month payment 
refund was reasonable, and in line with what he wouldve recommended. So, he didnt think 
Arval needed to do anything more.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He said that he first contacted Arval about the 
situation in April 2021 and that they were also aware of the serious manufacturers flaw 
associated with this model of car. Mr B also said that the contract between myself and Arval 
was fully terminated on exactly 1st April 2022 [and] Arval confirmed in writing and multiple 
phone calls that the agreement was terminated immediately.
Mr B also provided a timeline of the issues hed had with the car, and this included the dates 
he believed Arval were fully aware of the problems.
Because Mr B didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr B was supplied with a car under a hire 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to 
investigate complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Arval 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. In a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the 
time of sale, and the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the 
components of the car must last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Arval can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr B to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr B took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Arval to put this right.
Its not disputed that there were issues with the car that was supplied to Mr B. And Arval 
have accepted that these issues made the car of an unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. Given this, my decision will concentrate on what I think Arval should do to put 
things right.
The information Ive seen from the manufacturer shows that the car was returned to them to 
investigate and rectify faults on eight occasions between 30 March 2021 and 10 March 
2022. And, for the most part, these dates tie-in with the dates Mr B has provided on his 
timeline. Mr B says that Arval were fully aware of the issues with the car from April 2021 and, 
because of this, he thinks they shouldve acted sooner.
However, I havent seen any evidence that Mr B was in contact with Arval, about the issues 
with the car, until 10 March 2022. And, despite Mr B saying that he phoned and emailed 
Arval about the issues before this date, he hasnt provided anything i.e. copies of emails or 
evidence that calls were made, to show this was the case.
Whats more, the evidence Ive seen shows Arval werent contacted by the manufacturer, 
and made aware of the issues with the car and the dates it was returned to the dealership, 
until after they started investigating Mr Bs complaint in March 2022. 
Given this, Im satisfied that Arval werent aware of the issues with Mr Bs car before March 
2022. And I cant say theyve done anything wrong by not acting sooner, as they werent 
aware of anything they needed to act upon.When a complaint is raised with a financial business, wed expect them to investigate this 
complaint, and issue their final response, in no longer than eight weeks. Mr B raised his 
issues with Arval on 10 March 2022, and they issued their final complaint response on 11 
May 2022. Given the timescales wed expect, I dont think that Arval have unnecessarily 
delayed the investigation into Mr Bs complaint.
Arval have confirmed that, on 1 April 2022, they told Mr B that they thought he should be 
able to reject the car. And Mr B has referred to this as the agreement being terminated in 
spirit. But, crucially, Ive seen nothing to show me that Arval told Mr B that his agreement 
was being terminated from this date.
Mr B also says that the car was unusable from 1 April 2022 as Arval had officially 
condemned the car on this date. And he thinks that they shouldve condemned the car 
much earlier in the contract lifetime given the opinion of the [manufacturers] engineer who 
confirmed that the car shouldve been returned due to a severe error on it.
However, Ive not seen anything to show me Arval told Mr B the car had been condemned 
and/or that he shouldnt use it. And the information Ive seen from the manufacturer doesnt 
confirm that the car shouldve been rejected due to a severe error. Instead, the information 
from the manufacturer indicates that the car was returned to Mr B shortly after 10 March 
2022, and Arval were told that a software update had been done which had fixed the issue.
Whats more, when Arval approached the manufacturer about the issues, they didnt agree 
that the car should be rejected. And, as a result of this, Arval took the decision to terminate 
the agreement on 11 May 2022 and collect the car themselves. They also offered Mr B a 
goodwill gesture of £962.25 for the inconvenience hed suffered. While Ive seen that Arval 
have referred to this as being three-months payments, based on the original agreement Ive 
seen, this is equivalent to more than three, but less than four, payments.
As I havent seen anything to show me Arval actually terminated the agreement on 1 April 
2022, or that the car was either undrivable or with the dealership for repairs from this date; 
Im satisfied that Mr B was in possession of a car he was able to use if he wished, which was 
continuing to be supplied to him under a valid hire agreement. So, I think its reasonable that 
he continued to make the scheduled contractual payments from 1 April 2022 until the 
agreement was actually terminated on 11 May 2022. And I wont be asking Arval to refund 
these to him.
It's clear from what Ive seen that Mr B suffered some inconvenience while he was in 
possession of the car, and it needed to be returned for investigation/repair on eight 
occasions. While its my understanding that Mr B was always offered a courtesy car to keep 
him mobile, this doesnt wipe out any impact Mr B wouldve suffered. However, I also need 
to keep in mind that this was happening without Arvals knowledge and, as such, they were 
unable to take any action to try and resolve the issues sooner.
Because of this, Im satisfied that the £962.25 Arval have offered is more than I wouldve 
recommended in the circumstances. And I wont be asking them to pay anything more. So, 
its now for Mr Arval to decide whether to accept this offer or not.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Arval UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman