DRN-2011989
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car he took on hire purchase from 1st Stop Car Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In May 2019 Mr B took a car under a hire purchase agreement with 1st Stop. The agreement 
recorded that the car had been first registered in June 2012 and that the cash price was 
£4,395. The cars mileage at delivery was 62,000. 
Mr B says that, within about three months, he was experiencing problems with the car. 
Eventually, he had to have the car recovered when it went into limp mode. In October 2019 
he contacted 1st Stop about the problems hed experienced; 1st Stop arranged for an 
engineer to inspect the car and prepare a report. 
The engineers report noted that it hadnt been possible to start the car, because it had a flat 
battery. The engineer noted that the coolant in the cars expansion tank was low, but there 
were no visible leaks. He tested its pressure and concluded that there was probably an 
internal link, most likely caused by a failed cylinder head gasket. The loss of pressure he 
found in a test would be more pronounced under driving conditions. The engineer noted that 
the car had been driven around 4,000 miles since Mr B took delivery of it. There was, he 
said,  no plausible evidence noted or presented to suggest that the current cylinder head 
gasket breach which we believe the root source of the loss of cooling system pressure was 
present at the point of purchase or in the development stage at the date of sale.  
The engineers report concluded that it was likely the cars cylinder gasket needed replacing. 
The engineer described the breach of the gasket as age-related wear and tear. 
Based on this report, 1st Stop said that it was satisfied that the car had been of satisfactory 
quality had the time it was supplied to Mr B. He didnt agree, however, and referred the 
matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He thought that the car 
hadnt been of satisfactory quality. Given the likely cost of repairs, he thought it fair that Mr B 
should be entitled to reject the car without making any more payments. In addition, he 
should have payments made from November 2019 returned, since he hadnt had any use of 
the car since then.
1st Stop didnt accept the investors recommendations and asked that an ombudsman 
review the case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the hire purchase agreement was to be read as 
including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality. Goods are of satisfactory 
quality if they are of the quality a reasonable person would expect in the circumstances. 
Those circumstances include in this case the cars age, price and mileage. In this case the 
car was relatively old, had a relatively high mileage (although average for its age) and was 
relatively low-priced. It was reasonable to expect some faults to develop, and the fact that Mr 
B experienced problems doesnt of itself mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
As the investigator observed, however, the concept of satisfactory quality includes durability. 
I dont believe its reasonable to expect a car of this age and mileage to be entirely free of 
problems, but I think its important here that the problem identified in the engineers report 
occurred relatively soon after Mr B took delivery of it and was sufficiently serious that he 
could no longer use the car. 
The engineer thought it likely that the fault he identified had developed since delivery. He 
noted that Mr B had been able to drive the car some 4,000 in the time hed had it. I 
understand his (and 1st Stops) point here, but I dont believe that the use that Mr B had of 
the car means that it was sufficiently durable to be of satisfactory quality. The engineer noted 
too that the issue he identified is generally down to wear and tear. His report didnt say 
however at what point the cylinder gasket might generally need replacing. A part which fails 
due to wear and tear isnt of satisfactory quality if it nevertheless fails prematurely. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators conclusion that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. I must therefore consider what the appropriate remedy is. 
Putting things right
The investigator noted that the cost of a repair would be nearly as much as the cost of the 
car itself. It would certainly be a significant proportion of the cars value. Other remedies  
such as a reduction in the price  arent appropriate in this case. I agree with the investigator 
therefore that Mr B should be allowed to return the car at no additional cost. He should also 
have a refund of monthly hire payments made since November 2019; in saying that, Im 
accepting that Mr B has had no use of the car since then, but 1st Stop will be able to check 
its mileage on its return. 
The investigator also recommended a refund of the deposit. The hire purchase agreement 
doesnt say that any was paid, however, so I wont be including that in my award. 
In addition to the financial loss that Mr B has suffered, hes also been put to some 
inconvenience. The investigator recommended a further payment of £250 in recognition of 
that. I agree that this is a fair sum in the circumstances.     
My final decision
My final decision is that, to resolve Mr Bs complaint, 1st Stop Car Finance Ltd should:
allow Mr B to return the car, if necessary meeting any costs involved; 
cancel the hire purchase agreement with immediate effect; 
refund any monthly hire payments paid from 1 November 2019, together with simple 
interest at the contractual rate from the date of payment until the date of the refund; and 
pay Mr £250 in recognition of the inconvenience to which hes been put.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020. 
Mike IngramOmbudsman