DRN-1979087
The complaint
Mr A complains that Brent Shrine Credit Union Limited has recorded a marker on CIFAS the 
national fraud database.
What happened
Mr A applied for a £15,000 loan from Brent Shrine. It requested he send supporting 
information including bank statements which he did on 21 August 2019. His loan was 
declined. He later found it had registered the marker for application fraud because the bank 
statements had been shown to have been altered. Mr A said that his wifes uncle had altered 
them without his knowledge while he had his laptop. This was because his wife owed her 
uncle £800 and he was going to ask her to get £1,000 from Mr A.
Brent Shrine said that when it had received pdf versions of bank statements it had checked 
these. It found that 17 entries including gambling and loan repayments had been overwritten. 
It showed that the statement document had been created and modified on the day it was 
sent which didnt tie into Mr As explanation. Brent Shrine said that these changes were 
material to its decision about whether to offer a loan. It said it would have considered any 
more evidence including if Mr A had reported the alleged culprit to the authorities.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that that there 
was a high bar for registering a CIFAS marker. She was satisfied that Brent Shine had 
sufficient information to support that fraud had been attempted. She considered whether    
Mr A knew about this. There was an inconsistency between what Mr A said his wifes uncle 
had told him hed altered- which was a few gambling transactions and the extent of what had 
been changed. And Mr As version of events - that the statements had been downloaded 
sometime before  didnt tie up to the document property information as explained by Brent 
Shine. Mr A was going to be the beneficiary of this money and it was unlikely that he 
wouldnt have been aware or involved in the statements being doctored.
Mr A didnt agree. He said that he knew for certain what happened, not what was most likely, 
and this was that his wifes uncle was responsible. He wanted an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Brent Shrine 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
It is not in dispute that these statements were altered. And I agree with our investigator that 
the evidence of that was sufficient to meet the standard for an application fraud marker. The 
issue is whether Mr A knew about the alterations before these were sent. He has given a 
detailed explanation of what happened to his laptop that he says he didnt have an urgent 
need for. And how this was lent to his wifes uncle. His position is that this person, knowing 
that a loan was being applied for took the opportunity to make it more likely Mr A would be 
successful and so that he could be repaid as the uncle believed he wouldnt otherwise.
Although Mr A has named the individual and provided contact details he hasnt provided 
anything else to support that this person made these amendments and did so without Mr As 
knowledge. Its up to Mr A to support his case with evidence. And he hasnt explained why 
someone who he clearly trusted with his personal information would need to set out to 
deceive him in this way when it seemed Mr A was applying for a loan anyway and had no 
concerns about the information on his bank statement.
I dont for example have any evidence of direct contact with Mr A from the alleged culprit 
about this, any attempt by Mr A to report this to the authorities or anything else to support 
the elements of Mr As version of events. Its not necessarily enough that Mr A says he 
knows the truth and he wouldnt do this himself given the nature of his work. And he hasnt 
given a satisfactory explanation of the evidence that the documents were created and 
modified on the day they were sent  which the investigator set out. I am also struggling to 
accept that he didnt think his history on the statements of borrowing and spending on 
gambling transactions mightnt be relevant to his chances for getting a loan. I appreciate that 
he says not all the gambling payments were concealed but there were in any event a 
significant number of material alterations to the statements.
I cant know exactly what happened and I am fairly here applying the balance of probabilities 
 what is most likely to have happened. Im afraid I dont find Mr As version the most 
plausible one. He had a significant amount to gain from the loan and as I say hes not 
provided anything to persuade me that what he says is the most likely explanation. Taking 
into account all the factors I consider he was most likely aware of the alterations  even if he 
didnt personally make them.
Brent Shrine says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A gave material falsehoods 
as part of a loan application. So, Ive looked at whether Brent Shrine was fair to apply the 
marker, based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance 
says the business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of 
proof set by CIFAS. This essentially means that Brent Shrine needs to have enough 
information to make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases 
where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, 
rather than mere suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence Brent Shrine has provided, Im 
satisfied that Brent Shrine had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. 
I understand what Mr A has said about the effects of a CIFAS marker and I know hell be 
very disappointed when I say that I dont have a reasonable basis to require Brent Shrine to 
take any further action.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman