DRN-4015993
The complaint
Mr A says Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly defaulted and closed his credit card account.
What happened
Mr As account defaulted in July 2022 after no payments were made from September 2021 
onwards. He says Lloyds did not help as it should have, it did not allow him to explain his 
situation - he had medical issues at the time that prevented him from working. He wants 
Lloyds to reinstate his credit card account and write-off the outstanding balance.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr As complaint. He found Lloyds had acted fairly and in line 
with industry guidelines. He said Mr A had been able to explain his situation to Lloyds in 
December 2021. The bank had tried to set up a repayment plan but Mr A said he could not 
complete an income and expenditure form as his income was uncertain at the time. 
Ultimately, as it was clear Mr A could no longer meet his contractual repayments the bank 
was entitled to default the account when it did.
Mr A disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said he 
knows the bank did not take the right steps or do everything it should have to help him.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr As complaint. Ill explain why.
I have reviewed the communication between the parties once Mr A fell into arrears. 
Letters chasing payment were sent in October and November 2021 and Mr M spoke to 
Lloyds in December 2021. The call notes show Mr A explained he had been on sick pay 
since May and Lloyds signposted him to organisations that could help with both his financial 
difficulties and mental health. It refunded £150 of interest due to Mr As circumstances and 
froze any future interest and charges. It placed a 30-day hold on the account to delay the 
account closure process.
A default notice was issued in January 2022. There followed conversations in February and 
March 2022 whereby Mr A told Lloyds his circumstances had not changed. The hold was 
refreshed on his account. In May 2022 Mr A told the bank he had a trial in a new role but he 
could not complete an income and expenditure plan as it was not yet clear what his salary 
would be. The 30-day hold was refreshed again and Mr A was told this was the final hold 
and he had to now complete a budget plan. Follow-up collections letters were sent that 
month and the next, but no payments were made and Mr A did not call back to confirm his 
employment position. On 22 July 2022 the account defaulted.
I think Lloyds approach to Mr As position was fair. Lloyds is obliged to follow the guidelines 
issued by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) with regards to how, and when, to 
default an account. These say that typically when an account is at least three months behind 
with repayments a default can be issued, and they would expect a default to be registered by 
the time an account holder is six months behind. This is because by this point it is clear the 
account holder cannot make their contractual repayments. In this case, I think Lloyds 
approach was in line with these guidelines  it did wait longer than six months but I find this 
reasonable given Mr As personal circumstances. I disagree however with Mr A that it ought 
to have waited longer. I find by the time Lloyds defaulted Mr As account it was clear he was 
no longer able to make the contractual repayments.
The ICO also sets out the letters and notices a bank must send prior to defaulting an 
account. Lloyds has sent evidence to show it complied with these requirements.
In addition, the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority - sets out in its Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) that a lender must treat customers in financial difficulty with 
forbearance and due consideration. But there is no set list of things it must do, rather a 
range of things it must consider, and offer to customers as appropriate. 
In that context I again think Lloyds met its obligations  it refunded interest, froze future 
interest and charges and offered repeated 30-day holds to delay the account closure 
process. It also signposted debt management organisations that could support Mr A, and 
tried to help Mr A set up a payment plan - but he could not provide the inputs needed.   
I am sorry Mr A has suffered with his health and that this has created financial difficulties for 
him, but overall I find Lloyds treated him fairly in the circumstances. I hope he now has the 
support he needs.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman