DRN-3013911
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) took too long to comply with his data 
subject access request (DSAR) and treated him badly in the process.
Mr P originally had someone representing him with regards to this - dealing with both this 
service and Santander but for ease of reading I have referred solely to Mr P in this decision.
 
What happened
Mr P made a DSAR request to Santander in relation to two historic mortgage accounts. Both 
mortgages were originally taken with different providers that had since been taken over by 
Santander. The first mortgage ran from 1991 to 1999 and second mortgage from 1999 to 
2005. The request was made via an online complaint platform (R) on 29 June 2020 and was 
categorised by Mr P as being a complaint about loans.
Mr P received a letter in early September 2020, from Santander, explaining it was unable to 
verify his address based on the information hed provided. The letter told him he would need 
to update his details and provide it with valid identification. Mr P says that when he received 
the letter, he called Santander and was told, on the call, he would need to visit a branch with 
his identification to verify his address. 
Mr P didnt think this was right, as it was during the middle of the Covid-19 pandemic, and he 
has a serious illness, but he went ahead and visited the branch. He says that during that visit 
a member of staff from the branch called the DSAR team who were unhelpful in assisting 
with the verification of his details. He says after him being told he had to go to the branch to 
do this  the DSAR team then told the branch staff it couldnt be done in branch and Mr P 
should put it in the post. Eventually the branch staff were able to verify his details. He says 
the member of staff in the branch told him he should make a complaint about how hed been 
treated. 
Mr P says if he had known he could do this by post he would never had gone to the branch 
in the first place, and only did so because he was told to. 
Mr P made a complaint to Santander about its handling of the DSAR request. As he wasn't 
satisfied with its response, he brought his complaints to this service. He told us that he would 
like Santander to compensate him as an apology. Our investigator looked into this complaint 
but didn't uphold it in summary she said:
Mr P initially categorised his DSAR request as being a complaint about loans and this 
caused some delays in reaching the correct department. There were further delays 
because of Santanders need to divert resource away from usual compliance or 
information governance work due to the Covid-19 pandemic. But overall, she didn't 
think the delays were unreasonable.
She had listened to the calls that Santander had provided and was satisfied that in 
these calls Mr P was not advised to visit a branch and had seen no other evidence 
that supported Mr P's claim. So, on balance she couldn't fairly say that Santander 
had made Mr P go out of his way to visit a branch.
Mr P disagreed with the investigator, he requested copies of the calls Santander provided 
and has listened to them. He agreed the call recordings did not relate to the call, he says 
took place, where he was asked to visit the branch. He believes there should be more call 
recordings available. The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence. Having done so I have to tell Mr P that 
I won't be upholding his complaint, I'll explain.
Before going into my explanation, I would like to first take the opportunity to tell Mr P that I'm 
sorry to hear he is unwell and understand this may be a very difficult time for him.
Mr P has made a complaint about Santanders adherence to regulation, in respect of his 
DSAR request, to the Information Commissioner's Office, so I won't be commenting on that 
as part of this decision. Instead I will be considering the service Santander provided to Mr P 
when dealing with his DSAR request.
When Mr P initially categorised his DSAR request, on Rs website, as being a complaint 
about loans this determined which department it was sent to when it reached Santander. As 
it was initially sent to the wrong area this inevitably caused some delays in it reaching the 
correct department. There were other delays dues to Santander rerouting resources during 
the pandemic, from the information governance area of the business, to areas with more 
pressing urgency for helping its customers. I believe this to have been reasonable in 
response to the pandemic and an approach that many businesses had to take during that 
period.
Once it did reach the correct department, Santander identified that Mr P didn't have any 
active accounts with it and so needed to verify his address to be sure that any information it 
provided, it did so to the right person. Santander wrote to Mr P to tell him this. Santander has 
provided a copy of the template letter it uses in circumstances such as Mr Ps. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Santander to ask for Mr P to verify his address as it has a duty to 
protect the information it holds and make sure it is only given out appropriately.
The letter, Mr P was sent, explains what needs to be done in order for the verification to be 
completed, it has no mention of visiting the branch to do this, but it is clear that this can be 
done by post. It also has a telephone number that you can call - Mr P says when he did this, 
he was told that he would need to visit the branch to be able to verify his address. 
Mr P has provided the phone numbers which could have been used for this call. Santander 
has completed a search on those numbers and has shown us that there are only two calls, 
relating to those numbers from the relevant time, on its system. I appreciate that Mr P 
believes there are other calls that Santander has not provided to this service. But having 
seen a screenshot of the search it carried out on the numbers Mr P provided, Im satisfied 
there are no other calls to, or from these numbers in relation to this issue.
I have listened to both of those calls and there is no mention in either of them of Mr P 
needing to attend the branch. I believe the letter Santander sent Mr P was clear in its 
instruction that he could verify his address by post. I've seen nothing to suggest that Mr P 
was made, by Santander, to go to the branch to do this, other than it being his choice to do so. In light of this I cant fairly say Mr P was made to attend the branch to carry out the 
verification. 
Mr P has said the service he received while in the branch was poor, so much so that a staff 
member in the branch advised him to complain about the service. The staff member has 
provided a statement saying it didnt happen that way and that they were called to deal with 
a customer that was unhappy and refusing to leave the banking hall. It's difficult for me to 
say what happened here in regard to the service Mr P was provided, with any certainty as I 
wasn't present and there is no contemporaneous evidence to support either version of 
events. But what is clear is Mr P did have his address verified at the branch, and I think it's 
probably likely that there was some frustration on his part at having to do this. But I cant 
fairly say the service he received in the branch was poor or unfair.
In summary, I've not seen anything that makes me believe Mr P was treated unfairly by 
Santander when dealing with his DSAR request. So, it follows I won't be asking it to 
compensate or apologise to Mr P as he requested.
I know Mr P will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Santander  can do for him.
My final decision
for the reasons set out above, my final decision as I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman