DRN-2843819
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited wont pay his home insurance claim for theft of 
his bike.
What happened
In November 2020, Mr Bs bike (along with some others) was stolen from a communal bike
storage area within the block of flats where Mr Bs property was located. He made a claim to
Aviva and explained that the thieves had found a way over the gate and forced a lock off the
door to the bike store.
Aviva declined Mr Bs claim on the grounds that the bike was taken from an area of Mr Bs
home to which other residents had access. It said there was an exclusion in the policy for
thefts that occurred from communal areas. It said that Mr B hadnt taken out the optional
cycle cover under the policy and, as such, the theft would need to have been from within his
flat to be covered.
Mr B complained to Aviva about its decision to decline his claim. Aviva looked into Mr Bs
complaint but didnt think itd unreasonably declined his claim based on the applicable policy
terms. It said also that thered been no forcible and violent entry to the bike store.
Unhappy with the outcome of Avivas investigation, Mr B complained to this service. He said
hed read the policy terms carefully before taking the policy out and was confident he was
covered for exactly the type of event that had befallen him. He said he thought bikes were
covered for theft in the home, and that included outbuildings. Mr B said various different
departments in Aviva had given him different reasons for declining the claim. He said Avivas
claim decision was that his bike would need to have been stolen from within his flat to be
covered or he would have needed to have taken the additional cycle cover but that this
wasnt stated anywhere in the policy terms to be the case. He said the policy terms said, for
theft to be covered, it must be from within the home and that they defined home to include
outbuildings.
Mr B also said Avivas claim in its final response letter that thered been no forcible and
violent entry to the bike store was factually incorrect as the lock had been forced by the
thieves. Mr B said hed challenged Aviva about this assertion but it had never replied to him.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and recommended that it was upheld. Taking
the policy terms and conditions into account, he didnt think Aviva had treated Mr B fairly and
reasonably when declining his claim. He said the examples given in the policy exclusion (for
theft) that Aviva had relied on werent specific enough. Our investigator recommended that
Aviva should settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
Aviva replied to say it disagreed with our investigators findings. It said the theft exclusion
should apply to the type of circumstances in which Mr Bs bike was taken. Aviva said if it
accepted our investigators opinion itd set a precedent for such cases in the future. It asked
for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case earlier this month recommending the complaint 
was upheld and that Aviva should settle Mr Bs claim. I made the following provisional 
findings:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like our investigator, I think this complaint should be upheld but for slightly different reasons.
Ill explain why.
Mr Bs policy provides cover for theft. The policy states:
Whats covered?
Our standard Contents cover will protect you for loss or damage to contents in the home or
its garden caused by any of the following things: 
7. Theft or attempted theft
The words in bold have specific policy meanings.
This term means that Mr B is covered by the policy for theft of his contents in his home or
garden providing that the policy definitions for home or garden are also met.
The policy definition of home is: the house or flat and its garages and outbuildings From
the photographs provided I can see that Mr Bs flat is in a conversion of an old building.
There is a communal courtyard accessed through a solid gate. In the courtyard there is a
sizeable metal bike store. It has six doors (all padlocked) and a slanting roof. A quick internet
search confirms that bike stores are classed as outbuildings. That being the case, I think the
bike store meets the policy definition of home. Consequently, Im unable to agree with Aviva
that the bike wouldve needed to have been in the flat itself to be covered by the contents
cover in the policy: it needed only to be within the home (as defined)  and it was.
So, this means that Mr B has shown that the theft of his bike was from his home and is
covered by his policy. The only way that Aviva can therefore defeat Mr Bs claim is to
successfully rely on one of the policy exclusions to do so. The burden of proving the
exclusion can be applied is Avivas.
The policy also sets out (at the end of the contents cover section) what isnt covered. In
other words, the circumstances where cover for loss or damage is excluded. There are
several exclusions that relate to theft cover. They state there is no cover for:
Theft of the following items unless someone has broken into or out of the home using force
and violence
As Ive said above, Mr B has shown that there has been a theft from his home (the bike store
constituting an outbuilding). He has also explained how force and violence was used to gain
access to the bike store/outbuilding  by forcing the lock off the bike store and cutting
through the bike lock fixing the bike to the anchor. Aviva doesnt say in its final response to
Mr Bs complaint why it doesnt accept there was any forcible and violent entry. Having seen
the photograph of the bike lock its not unreasonable to accept what Mr B has said about the
mode of access by the thieves. Aviva hasnt shown that access was gained without the use
of force and violence so it follows that this exclusion hasnt been proved and cant
reasonably be applied to defeat the claim.
Another theft exclusion states there is no cover for:Theft if you live in a self-contained flat and the theft is from any other part of the building
that other people have access to (e.g. if you leave something in the corridor outside your
flat).
It is this exclusion that Aviva has chosen to rely on in order to defeat Mr Bs claim. It says
that thefts where the policyholder lives in a self-contained flat arent covered where that theft
is from a part of the building to which other people have access.
Whilst Aviva chooses in its policy to define the term buildings, the word building, in the
singular, as used in this exclusion, isnt specified. And I note that here, unlike other words in
the policy which Aviva has chosen to define, and indicated such by setting them out in bold
type, the word building in this exclusion isnt emboldened. So, Im satisfied that Aviva
hasnt chosen to give this word a specific meaning, nor intended any specific meaning for it
when setting out the exclusion. As such, I think its reasonable, to apply the everyday
common meaning to the word building: that is a permanent structure with a roof and walls
such as a house or factory. I think its reasonable to think that the structure that houses the
self-contained flats is a building. But, unfortunately for Aviva, it hasnt shown that the theft
was from a part of the building that other people had access to. The theft was from an
outbuilding (part of the home) so I dont think its been able to show that this exclusion can
be successfully applied to defeat Mr Bs claim.
If Aviva had wanted to exclude cover for theft in any part of the buildings (as defined) then it
shouldve used the word buildings. But it didnt and it wouldnt be fair for me to assume
that was its intention and, therefore, apply it when considering this complaint.
And the fact is that the example that Aviva uses in the exclusion for the type of circumstance
in which it wouldnt provide cover  something left in a corridor (of a building)  is very
different form the type of circumstance in which Mr Bs bike was stolen.
Crucially  I think  the exclusion doesnt say that thefts from the communal areas of the
home (which is defined and includes outbuildings) arent covered. If it did, I might be
reaching a different conclusion. But the exclusion makes specific reference to thefts from
communal parts of the building and its fair to think, for the reasons Ive given above, that
that means the structure that contains the self-contained flats.
So, I dont think Aviva has proved that this exclusion can be successfully applied to defeat
Mr Bs claim. Mr Bs bike was taken from a locked outbuilding and force and violence was
used to gain access to the locked outbuilding. I cant fairly or reasonably agree that any of
the above exclusions apply in the circumstances of Mr Bs claim.
I note Avivas concern that this decision will set a precedent for all complaints like this one
going forward. Id like to reassure it that that will not be the case. As Aviva is aware, each
complaint we see is taken on its own merits. What applies in one case will not set a
precedent for another as each complaint we receive is considered on its own facts. Ive set
out above why, in this particular set of circumstances, it is neither fair nor reasonable for
Aviva to rely on the communal areas theft exclusion. It doesnt automatically follow that all
complaints about this exclusion will be upheld.
Mr B replied to say he accepted my provisional decision. Aviva replied and said itd already 
made its feelings clear and that there was nothing further to add. It said the policy wasnt 
intended for these types of claims. It said it didnt agree with my provisional decision but it 
did accept it. 
The complaint was referred back to me for a final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, my provisional findings and 
provisional decision remain unchanged. For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, 
Im satisfied that this is a complaint that should be upheld. 
Putting things right
As Aviva has already considered Mr Bs claim against the policy terms I think it should now
settle it (subject to the deduction of any applicable policy excess).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide 
the redress set out above under the heading putting things right.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman