The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD (formerly trading as Financial Insurance Company 
Limited) mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Ms J. AXA didnt actually sell the 
policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2003 alongside a store credit account. Ms J 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. AXA didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Ms Js complaint. This is because I dont think AXA made clear the full 
costs of the PPI or the limitations on claiming. I think this would have mattered to Ms J, 
because shes said she had very good sickness benefits as a public sector employee. I dont 
think shed have agreed to the PPI if shed had proper information.
AXA has pointed out that Ms J said shed been at her then place of work for only one year, 
when the card started; and that, if she had been employed by this public body for just that 
one year, her work benefits would have been lower than she stated. However, given Ms Js 
age and profession, I think it is very likely she was employed by the same employer before 
moving to her actual location of work. So her benefits entitlement would have carried over.  I 
think its likely that her recollection, of work benefit entitlement, is accurate. 
Putting things right
AXA France IARD should put Ms J in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI.
A. AXA should find out how much Ms J would have owed when she closed her credit
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale 
of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
DRN-1270885AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms J owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms J would have
owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until the point when Ms J
wouldve owed something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms J would have owed each month without PPI  Ms J
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on
the extra Ms J paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms J
wouldve owed AXA something on her credit. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. AXA should tell Ms J what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Ms J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms J that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Ms Js complaint. I require AXA France IARD 
to pay compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman