DRN-3361859
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) incorrectly declined a 
claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A have a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by BUPA. 
In 2020, Mrs A gave birth to their son prematurely via an emergency caesarean section and 
was immediately admitted into a Special Care Baby Unit (SCBU) for treatment and 
observation due to respiratory distress. Mrs A had chosen a private hospital and paid herself 
as the policy doesnt cover pregnancy or childbirth.
Mr and Mrs A made a claim for their sons treatment but BUPA declined cover as it said it 
doesnt cover intensive care. It says it considers an SCBU as intensive care as it is a 
specially designated unit for babies born earlier than expected requiring special care. As the 
baby had a direct admission, it is excluded. And furthermore, the policy doesnt cover 
emergency treatment. Unhappy with BUPAs response, they referred their complaint to this 
Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think BUPA had acted unfairly. She said 
the babys treatment would be classed as progressive care. And so would fall within the 
definition of intensive care and therefore would be excluded.
Mrs A disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
Their son was not in intensive care and the SCBU is not an intensive care unit.
The admission to the SCBU was unplanned but all childbirth is unplanned so an 
admission to SCBU cannot be planned.
Their sons treatment was not progressive care, he received antibiotics due to a 
bacterial infection. He was not acutely ill, monitoring of vital signs wasnt necessary 
and life-saving interventions werent needed, all of which are examples of 
progressive care. The simple provision of medication to a new-born baby is not 
progressive care.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly, fairly and shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms define intensive care as follows:
eligible treatment for intensive care, intensive therapy, high dependent care, 
coronary care or progressive care. 
Exclusion 2 Accident and emergency treatment says:
We do not pay for any treatment, including immediate care, received during a visit to 
an NHS or private accident and emergency (A&E) department, urgent care centre or 
walk-in clinic.
Exclusion 19 Intensive care says:
We do not pay for intensive care if:
it follows an unplanned or an emergency admission to an NHS hospital or facility 
it follows a transfer (whether on an emergency basis or not) to an NHS hospital or 
facility from a private recognised facility 
it follows a transfer from an NHS critical care unit to a private critical care unit 
it is carried out in a unit or facility which is not a critical care unit.
Mr and Mrs As baby was placed in the SCBU following an emergency c-section as he 
needed antibiotics and monitoring. And as the investigator explained, this would be 
considered progressive care. As the definition of intensive care includes progressive care, 
this would be excluded under the terms of the policy.
Progressive care is provided to patients who need more monitoring or assessment but who 
arent so unstable that they need to be in ICU. So I think the babys care can be treated as 
progressive. I appreciate what Mrs A says about the level of treatment required. But even if I 
agreed with her, the policy also excludes emergency treatment. 
Under exclusion 2, emergency treatment and immediate care are excluded. And as her baby 
was admitted into the SCBU immediately after birth, this would be excluded under 
emergency treatment.
Mrs A says all births are unplanned, the SCBU isnt an intensive care unit and if BUPA didnt 
want to cover it, it should explicitly exclude SCBUs in its terms and conditions. But I dont 
think this means that an admission to an SCBU can never be planned. If a baby required an 
assessment as part of an eligible condition, I dont see why an admission to SCBU couldnt 
be pre-planned.
BUPA said that as Mr and Mrs As babys admittance was unplanned, its not covered. 
Private medical insurance policies are designed to pay for pre-planned treatment which is 
eligible under the terms of cover. As the babys treatment wasnt pre-planned, it isnt eligible.Having considered the above, I dont think BUPA incorrectly declined the claim. I think the 
terms and exclusions are clear. I think the babys treatment is excluded as an emergency. 
He was placed in the SCBU immediately and his treatment wasnt pre-planned. The policy 
isnt designed to cover emergencies and sets out the criteria for eligible treatment including 
the need for prior authorisation. In addition, the babys admission into the SCBU would be 
classed as intensive care under the terms of the policy. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs A, but I think the exclusions are clear and they apply, so I 
cant fairly ask BUPA to pay the claim.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman