DRN-3290893
The complaint
Mr F complains that esure Insurance Limited wont accept liability for an electrical fault in his 
car after repairs were made under his motor insurance policy. He wants it to pay for the 
repair and compensate him for his stress. 
What happened
Mr F noticed damage to his cars fabric hood and made a claim on his policy. esures 
repairer said the roof needed to be replaced. It took some time for the new roof to arrive from 
abroad. The repairer said, when it returned the car, that the roof switch worked intermittently, 
and a new switch was required. But Mr F said the roof wasnt working and there was a 
warning light showing, which hadnt been there before the repairs. esure declined 
responsibility for this as it said electrical faults werent covered by the policy and the fault 
was pre-existing.
our Investigators view
Our Investigator initially didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought 
esure had established that the fault was electrical and pre-existing. She thought delays in 
the repairs were unavoidable. And she thought the car had been returned directly to Mr F by 
the hood supplier to avoid further delays.  
Mr F replied that the hood supplier had pointed out the faulty switch only when the car was 
returned. He thought this may have been damaged in the accident or the repairs. He said a 
photograph taken of the dashboard before the car was taken for repairs didnt show any 
warning lights. Mr F then paid for a diagnostic report which showed that the fault had 
occurred whilst the car was in the care of the repairer. 
Our Investigator then recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
new evidence showed that the fault occurred during the repairs. And so she thought esure 
should pay for the electrical repair and also pay Mr F £150 for his trouble and upset.
Mr F replied that he thought he was entitled to a refund of the £150 policy excess due to the 
faulty repair. He also thought he should receive further compensation due to the loss of use 
of his car, and the stress caused by this matter. 
esure replied that it accepted that the fault occurred during the time the car was with the 
repairer. But it didnt accept responsibility for this as it thought it was due to component 
failure which could have occurred at any time.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr F 
and to esure on 5 January 2022. I summarise my findings:
I could understand Mr Fs frustration that it was taking so long to resolve his complaint. I 
could see that he was adamant that the roof worked fine before the accident and no warning 
lights were showing when the car went for repair. Hes now had his car repaired and I could 
understand that he wanted esure to reimburse him for this cost.
Were not engineers. We dont assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused 
as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and 
engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has 
considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision to not pay for 
additional repairs.
And in Mr Fs particular circumstances I wasnt satisfied that esure had justified its decision 
not to accept liability for the faulty electrics in the cars roof mechanism. Ill now explain why I 
thought this.
Mr F said the cars roof was damaged initially when it came into contact with child car seats 
and esure accepted the claim. esures repairer collected the car some three months later. It 
said it rang Mr F whilst it had the car to tell him about the faulty switch and damaged 
headlining. It said he agreed that the switch had failed previously, and the headlining was 
nothing to do with the claim. The repairer said its driver also told Mr F about the faulty switch 
when he returned the car. 
But Mr F said the first time he was told about the fault was when the car was returned to him. 
I thought Mr F had been consistent in his statement about this, and I had no reason to doubt 
his account. But I thought it was one persons word against the others whether or not the 
repairer called Mr F as it said. And so I couldnt say for certain what happened. 
esures engineer relied on the repairers report that said the roof switch was faulty and the 
interior headlining showed signs of previous repair. The repairer also said its diagnostics had 
shown a previous fault, but it was unable to provide a printout of this diagnosis. 
esure thought this meant there had been previous problems not related to the claim. But, I 
couldnt see that this was supported by evidence and it was again one persons word against 
the others. 
esure agreed for Mr F to take his car to a dealers garage for a report to see if the damage 
was incident-related. I thought that was a reasonable step given that there was 
disagreement about whether the damage was claim-related.
Mr F said he was told that the technicians at the garage had said the new roof hadnt been 
fitted correctly. The report didnt confirm this. But I could see from esures file notes that the 
garage called it to say that the roof hadnt been fitted right. It wanted to remove and refit the 
roof and replace the faulty switch. Its report said the roof needed to be dismantled. But this 
wasnt approved. 
So, at this stage, I thought esure had confirmation from the dealers garage, which was 
independent of both parties, that the repairs hadnt been done correctly. But it wouldnt 
approve their correction or further investigation. I didnt think that was fair or reasonable.
Mr F persisted in getting evidence to support his position that the roof had worked fine 
before the repairs. He said the warning light hadnt been on previously. Mr F had provided a 
photograph of his dashboard to esures repairer to note the mileage. The photograph was 
dated before the repairs were made and no warning lights were showing. 
esures repairers report noted the faulty switch and that no warning lights were showing. But 
this report is dated before the repairs were completed, and five days before the car was 
returned to Mr F. Its been established by the diagnostic report that Mr F paid for that the 
warning light was triggered whilst the car was in for repairs. esure said its engineers had 
accepted this. But it now thought the fault may be due to component failure.
So I thought there were some concerns with esures consideration of the evidence:
esure had confirmation from the dealers garage, which it agreed to appoint to resolve the dispute, that the repairs hadnt been done correctly. But it dismissed this. 
esure relied on verbal reports from its repairer to decide that the damage was pre-
existing although the evidence is that the warning light was first triggered whilst the car 
was in its care. So I thought esure should have questioned the reliability of the verbal 
reports.
esures repairers report is dated before the repairs were completed, three days before 
the warning light is known to have been triggered and this was a further two days before 
the car was returned to Mr F. I thought this threw doubt on its accuracy.
esures engineer said the fault may be due to component failure. But there was no 
evidence to support this, so it remained conjecture. 
Mr F considered that as the repairs were to the roof then the switch was damaged by either 
the accident or the repairs. I thought esure hadnt justified its decision not to accept this and 
so I thought it had unfairly decided not to accept responsibility for the electrical repairs 
needed. 
I thought esure should reimburse Mr F for the costs of the electrical repairs he had done, 
and for any diagnostic reports hed paid for, with interest as Mr F has been without his 
money for some time. 
Mr F said he couldnt use his car for many months as he thought it wasnt safe due to the 
faulty roof. But our approach is that consumers should reasonably mitigate their losses. Mr F 
eventually paid for the repairs himself. I thought he could have done this sooner, even whilst 
the dispute continued, if he had wanted to ensure his car was safe to drive. So I couldnt 
reasonably hold esure responsible for his loss of use. 
I could see that Mr F had been caused trouble and upset by this dispute. Hed had to email 
esure repeatedly to reiterate his concerns and hed had to arrange for his cars further 
repairs. Our investigator recommended that esure should pay Mr F £150 compensation for 
this. But I didnt think that was sufficient in the circumstances. I thought £250 compensation 
reflected the impact esures handling of the repairs to his car had on him. I thought this 
award was in keeping with our published guidance. 
Subject to any further representations by Mr F or esure, my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F replied that he was happy with my provisional decision, but he wanted further 
consideration of his loss of use of his car and a refund of his policy excess. Mr F said he had 
been disadvantaged as he couldnt afford to have his car repaired any sooner than he had 
done and so had lost use of his car. 
But I cant reasonably hold esure responsible for Mr Fs financial circumstances. Mr F hasnt 
said that he wasnt without transport and he hasnt said that he incurred costs for alternative 
transport. And, for the same reasons Ive given above, I dont require esure to compensate 
him for loss of use of his car. Ive considered the disadvantage caused to Mr F in the overall 
award for his trouble and upset. 
And I cant require esure to refund Mr Fs £150 policy excess. This is because the excess is 
always the first part of a claim to be paid. And Mr F is obliged to pay his excess by the 
policys terms and conditions. esure replied providing a restatement by its repairer of his initial testimony about the repairs 
and a copy of the vehicle report completed at the time. But Ive already considered these 
and, for the reasons set out above, thought they were inconclusive. 
The representations havent provided further evidence to change my provisional decision, so 
I can see no reasons to depart from it. 
Putting things right
I require esure Insurance Limited to do the following:
1. Reimburse Mr F for the costs of the electrical repairs to his roof and any diagnostic tests 
he paid for, adding interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.
2. Pay Mr F £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his claim. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires esure to take off tax from this interest. esure must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require esure Insurance Limited to carry out 
the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman