DRN-3212591
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, recalled a transaction 
shed made on her credit card under the card provider chargeback rules.
What happened
Ms M had a Barclays credit account which was closed by Barclays on Monday 26 October 
2020. The previous working day, on Friday 23 October 2020, a credit card transaction to a 
third-party merchant was initiated. However, this transaction didnt complete until the next 
working day, which was the day that Ms Ms credit account was closed by Barclays. 
Because of this, while Barclays allowed the transaction to complete, they then recalled the 
transacted amount via the chargeback process. Ms M wasnt happy about this and given that 
shed initiated the transaction the previous working day felt that Barclays should have 
allowed the transaction to remain completed. So, she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Ms Ms complaint. But they felt that they hadnt acted unfairly towards   
Ms M in how theyd managed the situation, and so they didnt uphold her complaint. Ms M 
wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Barclays had 
acted unreasonably towards Ms M, and so they also didnt uphold this complaint. Ms M 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its notable that Ms M had made several detailed submissions to this 
service. Id like to thank Ms M for these submissions, and I hope that she doesnt consider it 
a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ill be focussing on 
what I feel are the key points of this complaint that enable me to arrive at what I feel is a fair 
outcome  in line with this services role as an informal dispute resolution service.
As such, if Ms M notes that I havent responded to a point that shes made, it shouldnt be 
taken that I havent read and considered that point, but rather that I have considered that 
point, but that I dont feel that its necessary to address that point directly here.
I also feel that its important to note that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law, 
and that we dont operate as such. And while this service takes relevant rules and laws into 
consideration, our remit is based on fairness of outcome.
And ultimately, I do feel that its fair that Barclays charged back the transaction in question, 
given that it hadnt completed by the date that the account was due to be closed.
Im aware that Ms M feels that because Barclays authorised the transaction on the Friday 
that they should have allowed it to complete, and remain completed, on the Monday. 
Barclays have confirmed that it was because the transaction had been authorised on the 
Friday that they did allow it to complete the next working day, on the Monday. But because 
the credit account was scheduled to be closed on that day, they then recalled the transacted 
amount from the recipient merchant to the account via the card provider chargeback rules.
This doesnt seem unreasonable to me, and I dont feel that Barclays should fairly have 
allowed a transaction to remain completed that had only completed on the day that the 
account was due to be closed. 
Additionally, the fact that the account would be closing had been explained by Barclays to 
Ms M in advance of the account closure date, and from Ms Ms correspondence with this 
service Im satisfied that she would, in all likelihood, have been aware that a transaction 
initiated on the last working day before the account closure date  as was the case in this 
instance  may well not have completed by the date the account was due to close. As such, 
I feel that it was incumbent on Ms M to have ensured that the transaction was undertaken 
sooner, if she wanted it to be allowed to remain completed.
Finally, Im also aware that Ms M is unhappy with some of the information presented to her 
by Barclays surrounding this matter, including that she was initially told by Barclays that they 
couldnt provide certain information to her because of data protection regulations, only to 
then provide that information when she raised a Data Subject Access Request with them. 
I can appreciate Ms Ms frustration in this regard, but Im satisfied that all the relevant and 
correct information has now been provided to her, and I dont feel that any further action is 
required by Barclays relating to this matter in this instance.
I realise that Ms M may disagree, but within the remit and parameters of this service as 
described above, I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly here, and it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint. I hope that Ms M will understand, given all that Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman