DRN-3073235
The complaint
Mr P complains that when he asked Metro Bank PLC to make a large transfer, it used the 
wrong details, and the money was returned. Mr P said this cost him a days interest, and led 
to considerable inconvenience.
What happened
Mr P said when he asked Metro to make a large transfer for him, so he could move his 
savings elsewhere, Metro used the wrong details. It didnt insert a dash or slash into the 
account number he was using, which was needed to make the transfer to his building 
society. 
Mr P said the money was returned, and he wasnt able to get back to Metro on the same day 
to make the transfer again. Mr P said Metro had accepted there was a failing and offered 
£25 compensation. He thought the interest hed lost out on would be about £100, and he 
said that Metro should pay for his inconvenience too, so he wanted Metro to pay £150 for 
what had gone wrong. 
Metro said that Mr P had confirmed the account details before the first transfer was 
attempted. So it didnt think what had gone wrong here was its fault. And Metro said it didnt 
think Mr P could have lost so much in interest. It said that it had paid Mr P £25, but this was 
a gesture of goodwill, not because it had made a mistake. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Mr P had confirmed 
the details before the transfer was done, which verified that he had checked the details. She 
said she appreciated that having to go back to the branch again was inconvenient for Mr P, 
but she thought that any award of missing interest would be covered by the payment Metro 
had made. She didnt think it had to do any more. 
Mr P didnt agree, he said that this was Metros mistake. He wanted his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I understand that Mr P feels that the wrong details on his first transfer were as a result of 
Metros mistake. I dont know for sure who was responsible for the mistake in those details. 
But Metro has sent us a copy of the transfer form. And, like our investigator, I think its 
important that Mr P signed this transfer form. That was his opportunity to check the details of 
the transfer he wanted to make. And because he signed this form which had incorrect details 
printed on it, I dont think I can say that what went wrong in this case is solely Metros fault. 
Mr P said hed lost a lot of money in interest, around £100. Metro has pointed out that any 
lost interest seems unlikely to reach this amount, as the delay was only for a day. I think 
thats right. But, more importantly, I wouldnt ask Metro to pay for lost interest unless I could 
see that what had gone wrong was entirely Metros fault. And I havent been able to see that 
here. 
I think the most I can say here, is that it does seem likely that Metro copied the number from 
the account details that Mr P gave it, onto Mr Ps form, incorrectly. But even if it did that, 
Mr P still confirmed these details before the transfer was sent. I also note that Mr P got all 
his money back, he was able to send it where he wanted the next day. So I think the 
payment of £25 which Metro has already made, does make up for any part it played in 
whats gone wrong here.
I know Mr P will be disappointed, but I dont think Metro has to do more than it has done 
already. And because of that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman