DRN-3244271
The complaint
R through its director complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc has been negligent in causing a 
repayment to go out of its account that shouldnt have gone out. R wants the payment 
reversed. 
What happened
R has a commercial mortgage with HSBC requiring monthly repayments. R had a 12-month 
repayment holiday which ended in November 2020. R had made enquiries about a further 
repayment holiday in September 2020 as its business was still closed because of the 
coronavirus pandemic. At that stage HSBC emailed R to say that HSBC was not in a 
position currently to extend the repayment holiday. There was a facility review of the account 
scheduled for October 2020 and then HSBC sent R an email on 20 November 2020 inviting 
R to apply for a capital repayment holiday for six months.
On 24 November 2020 R asked for a calculation of the repayment figures if it availed of this 
option. There was an issue about the calculation of the figures, and these were sent to R on 
11 December 2020. R requested the payment holiday on 17 December 2020 but prior to that 
HSBC collected the December monthly payment of £3,847.11 on 14 December.
HSBC progressed the application for the payment holiday after it received Rs application 
and after it got the relevant approvals, HSBC approved a six month capital repayment 
holiday on 6 January 2021.On 13 January 2021, HSBC collected a further payment of 
£3,847.11 but refunded this to Rs account on the following day and offered compensation of 
£100 for doing so.
Our investigator didnt consider that HSBC had done anything wrong and didnt recommend 
that this complaint should be upheld. R disagreed and asked for a review.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint relates to HSBC taking a monthly payment from Rs account in December 
2020. HSBC had granted R a payment holiday for the 12 months prior to December 2020 
and indeed the six months after December 2020. I can see that R was suffering financially 
during the pandemic but its hard to say that HSBC wasnt acting with a large degree of 
sympathy towards Rs position, foregoing as it did repayments over an extended period.
R's position is that it needed not to make this repayment in December as it had other 
repayments to make. In September R approached HSBC about a further renewal of the 
payment holiday. But the bank at that stage wasnt prepared to discuss it. I dont think thats 
unreasonable given that the payment holiday had a few months to run and there was a 
facility review at the end of October and the course of the pandemic and its effect on the 
business may have changed between September and the end of the year.
The problem facing R is that contractually there was an agreement for R to make a monthly 
payment each month to repay the mortgage and under the terms of the mortgage the bank 
was entitled to collect the payment unless  it had agreed to forego that months payment. The 
bank seems to have been sensitive to the financial strain that R was under by writing to the 
company on 20 November and inviting an application for a further capital repayment holiday 
which would be subject to approvals. The issue was that the mortgage payment went out 
before the application was made and the payment holiday approved by HSBC. I appreciate 
that in the meantime R wanted to see the repayment figures if the new payment holiday was 
granted and there was some delay in getting them to R but R had received them before the 
December repayment was taken and there was no application for a holiday outstanding at 
that stage. 
The difficulty I have in finding for R is that HSBC did nothing wrong in taking the repayment 
as it was contractually entitled to do when the payment holiday hadnt been approved. I note 
that it was approved by the following month. I agree that it was wrong for HSBC to take the 
payment in January, but it quickly corrected its error and paid fair compensation. But for the 
reasons set out above, I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman