DRN-2327622
The complaint
Miss B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt helped her to make more manageable 
payments onto her loan.  
What happened
Miss B said her income had reduced, and she wanted to make changes to a loan she had 
with HSBC. She couldnt afford the monthly payments of £291 so she said she wanted to 
reduce them. She wanted HSBC to allow her to pay the money back over a longer period.
HSBC offered Miss B a payment plan for three months at £166 per month, but then it said 
she had to start paying her original monthly amount again. She said shed kept trying to get 
HSBC to help her, but it wouldnt. Shed been told to go to a branch, so she did that despite 
the risk to her health, but they couldnt help either. 
She said shed now been sent a letter which said that HSBC couldve offered her a Managed 
Loan Agreement (MLA). She thought it was accepting responsibility for getting things 
wrong. But it had offered her £75 and not paid this. And it still wouldnt just let her reschedule 
her loan without affecting her credit file. Miss B said this was affecting her mental health.
HSBC said Miss B had missed her payments onto her loan for October and November 2019. 
It had set up a payment plan for Miss B in December, to start payments in January 2020. 
She had applied for a consolidation loan once that expired, but HSBC said it wasnt able to 
make a standard loan to Miss B. It could offer her a MLA, and it felt it shouldve suggested 
that to her sooner. It offered Miss B £75 in compensation because of that. But HSBC also 
said that Miss B hadnt wanted the MLA when it was offered to her, because it would still 
affect her credit file. Her loan later closed as a bad debt.
Our investigator discussed this case with HSBC, and it increased its offer. Our investigator 
then thought HSBC had made a fair offer in this case. She said it was now offering £150, on 
top of the £75 it had already offered. 
Our investigator thought Miss B ought to have been offered a MLA sooner. But she thought 
that Miss B would still have refused that, because it would affect her credit file.
Miss B didnt agree. She wanted HSBC to offer help that wouldnt affect her credit file. She 
wanted an ombudsman to consider her complaint, so this case came to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I understand that Miss B has tried repeatedly to get HSBC to help her with her loan. HSBC 
now says it shouldve offered her a MLA rather earlier than it did. But it has confirmed that 
this would still affect Miss Bs credit file. And when it did offer this, she turned it down.
I think HSBC has made some mistakes in this case, but Ive considered those carefully, and 
I think its offer of £225 is a fair offer to make up for whats gone wrong here. That includes 
not offering the MLA sooner, as well as for the distress and inconvenience it has caused by 
telling Miss B to go to branch when the branch wasnt able to help.
But, like our investigator, I dont think that offering this MLA sooner wouldve changed whats 
happened with Miss Bs loan. Thats because Miss B still turned this option down when she 
was offered it. 
Miss B has said repeatedly that she doesnt want any revised payment agreement on her 
loan which would impact her credit file. She wants our service to make HSBC give her 
support which wouldnt show on her credit file. 
But I dont think HSBC has made a mistake or been unfair, by saying that the help its 
offering will show up on Miss Bs credit file. Ill explain why I think that.
When someone gets into financial difficulties, our service expects a lender to act positively 
and sympathetically. So we would expect HSBC to work with Miss B, to see what she can 
afford. But that doesnt mean that lenders have to hide whats happened from credit 
reference agencies. 
When someone cant pay a loan in line with the original agreement, a lender will usually note 
this on that persons credit file. Our service wouldnt automatically say thats unfair. 
Marks on a credit file arent all the same. If someones had difficulty making their payments, 
that will usually show on a credit file. But when that person has reached an agreement with 
their lender, and is making the payments under a new agreement, their credit file will also 
usually show that theyre taking these steps to sort the problem out. And thats usually seen 
as a much more positive approach than just missing payments or defaulting on a debt. It can 
have a much less severe impact on any future lending requests. 
I think this is what HSBC was offering Miss B. So I dont think that was an unfair or 
unreasonable approach by HSBC. 
I do think that HSBCs offer provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, so 
thats what Ill now award.  My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank PLC must pay Miss B £225 in compensation. It can 
count towards this award any money it has already paid Miss B for this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman