DRN-2858068
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain that they
were mis-sold an investment by National Westminster Bank Plc.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G were provided with investment advice by NatWest in 2009. At the time, they
were both in their early 60s and retired. They owned their own home, had no dependants or
debts, and had a disposable monthly income of just under £700. They also had just over
£200,000 in various ISAs and bonds and a small holding of utility shares theyd received
free.
They were advised to take out a NatWest Combi Saver Green Edition (Issue 3) product.
This combined two accounts  a Special Instant Access Savings Account and a Fixed
Term Deposit account linked to the RBS Green Index. They placed £100,000 in the instant
access account and £49,999 in the fixed term account.
The instant access account was essentially a straightforward deposit account that paid an
enhanced rate of interest on any amount up to the equivalent of the amount committed to the
fixed term account  so in this case, £49,999. The enhanced rate applied for the first six
months and then reverted to base rate.
The fixed term account was for three years. It guaranteed to return the original amount
committed  providing the account was maintained for the full term  along with a potential
return equivalent to 75% of any increase in the RBS Green Index over the three-year term
(averaged for the last seven months). The index tracked the performance of 30 companies
operating in a number of different countries and business sectors. To qualify for selection for
the index a company was required to derive a significant proportion of its revenue from
green activities; for example, solar energy or waste management.
Mr and Mrs G maintained the fixed term account for the three years and received back just
over £52,000.
In late 2019 Mr and Mrs Gs CMC complained to NatWest about the advice. It felt that an
investment based on the performance of the Green Index wasnt suitable for very cautious
investors like Mr and Mrs G. It said too much was invested and that it would have been more
consistent with Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances for the money to be placed in fixed-rate bonds
that were paying around 4% at the time. The CMC said that the investment was effectively a
bet on the performance of the index.
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. It felt that the recommendation was suitable and
aligned with Mr and Mrs Gs attitude to risk and experience. It was satisfied theyd been able
to commit to a three-year term and had plenty of money and income left available, so
wouldve been able to make good any lack of return. Further, a series of meetings and
provision of information about the product had ensured they were fully informed.
The complaint was referred to this service where our investigator reached broadly the same
conclusion as NatWest. The CMC didnt accept this, reiterating its concerns with Mr and
Mrs Gs investment. It said there was no reason for them to have wanted to invest in this
area as theyd expressed no interest in ethical investments. And in any event, the
companies that made up the index were not necessarily specifically green or ethical. The
CMC didnt think that Mr and Mrs G would have appreciated the level of volatility likely to be
associated with a such a niche index.
As the investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, the matter was referred to me to 
review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld. I said, in part:
At the time of the advice Mr and Mrs G had little in the way of investment experience. They
had received investment advice previously but that had ended with them making a complaint
about unsuitability, which was upheld, and compensation paid to them. And it was for this
reason that it was recorded in the fact find that they were noted as very cautious investors.
They were then categorised as level 2 cautious investors on a scale of 1 (no risk) to 5 (high
risk) who, despite their previous bad experience, were looking to move some of their money
into an area that aimed to offer a better return than deposit accounts. This categorisation
tallied with a recommendation in a product that would return a minimum amount  in other
words, the original amount invested was guaranteed.
On the face of it, this doesnt appear to be particularly inappropriate. Im satisfied that Mr and
Mr G might have been prepared to consider doing something different with some of their
money and I think they were in a position to be able to invest £50,000 for three years.
Although the CMC has raised concerns about the amount of money that was left over, it
seems that they were left with sufficient for emergencies and hadnt committed money
elsewhere to the extent the CMC has suggested.
But that said, I cannot see why it wouldve been thought suitable for Mr and Mrs G to risk the
return on a fairly sizeable portion of their money on the performance of the RBS Green
Index. There is no suggestion in the paperwork that this was an area that particularly
interested them. And the index had a very narrow focus on companies that worked in a
similar field but were based all over the world. The lack of diversity meant that this was in
effect a very specialist investment tracking an index that was very new and involved a field
that for many reasons, both technical and political, would be likely to be highly volatile.
I appreciate there was a mechanism built into the product that aimed to limit the volatility, but
I suspect Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have understood how that worked or the likely impact it
might have on any return they might receive. And while the invested capital was guaranteed,
I dont think that feature, in itself, rendered the investment suitable. I think the mechanism on
which any potential return is based should also be in line with the investors attitude to risk 
for example, possibly an index that tracked a wider, more diverse set of companies.
I could see that a more experienced investor looking to reduce their overall exposure to risk
while still maintaining an interest in this area of investment might show a willingness to link
the return on their money to the Green Index. But I cant see that it was suitable to link
inexperienced investors with no apparent interest in the field to it.
So, I think the complaint should be upheld and compensation paid to Mr and Mrs G. The
CMC has suggested that there were fixed rate bonds available at the time they would have
paid around 4% interest. So, a comparison could be made with that sort of return.But, as I said, I think that Mr and Mrs G were probably prepared and in a position to commit
their £49,999 to an area where they could potentially achieve a better return that leaving the
money on deposit. I would normally suggest that a comparison be made with our cautious
benchmark. But Im conscious that the actual recommendation offered a capital guarantee
that wouldnt be reflected by the cautious benchmark.
That said, as noted, Mr and Mrs G were categorised as a level 2 cautious and investing
with a capital guarantee was only one feature of that categorisation. I think in all the
circumstances it wouldve been reasonable for Mr and Mrs G to commit their £49,999 to the
level of risk associated with our cautious benchmark, particularly as it is based in part  50%
 on the return from fixed rate bonds. So, that is the benchmark I intend to use  although as
this is a provisional decision, I may decide to amend this in response to further comments.
There is also the issue of the enhanced rate of return Mr and Mrs G received on the
associated instant access account, which was conditional upon investment in the fixed term
account. However, the enhanced rate of 3% over base rate was paid on only the first
£49,999 of the £100,000 and for only six months. So, I dont think it is sufficiently material to
be taken account of in calculating compensation.
Mr and Mrs Gs CMC accepted my provisional decision.
NatWest didnt agree, saying, in brief:
Id noted that the term, level of risk and amount invested were all reasonable, but 
found the Green Index to be insufficiently diversified.
It wasnt necessary to hold ethical beliefs in order to invest in the Green Index.
The objectives of the investment were discussed with Mr and Mrs G and product 
literature provided to them, which explained the potential volatility and mechanism to 
control it. 
Mr and Mrs G had decided to invest £49,999, rather than £50,000, to ensure tax 
efficiency, which indicated they had a good awareness of the investment and how it 
worked. 
The product literature compared the performance of the Green Index with the FTSE 
100 index. 
The CMC had said that the index was not particularly green, which suggested that it 
therefore wasnt actually that specific or niche.
The suitability letter confirmed that Mr and Mrs G had invested in property with their 
son and were prepared to do so again. This suggested they were happy to invest in a 
volatile and niche environment.
The recommendation fitted with Mr and Mrs Gs objectives, providing market 
exposure while protecting them from loss. 
Most investors would not necessarily understand the workings of an investment but 
would understand that lower risk equated to lower performance. 
Had investment in the Green Index been of concern to Mr and Mrs G they could have 
declined the recommendation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view reached in my provisional decision. 
I note NatWests comments about Mr and Mrs G having been prepared to invest in property with their son and that this indicates an understanding of, and willingness to accept, the level 
of volatility associated with a niche investment. But I dont think the fact that they were 
prepared to commit some of their money to a property venture with a family member 
necessarily meant they wanted to take a similar sort of risk with all their money. 
Mr and Mrs G were taken through a process that determined their attitude to risk for the 
investment of this money as a Category 2. This category represented the lowest level of 
investment risk available, as Category 1 equated to taking no risk whatsoever, so not 
investing. And I dont think Mr and Mrs Gs categorisation as a 2 is surprising given that 
their previous experience of receiving financial advice had led the recommendation of an 
unsuitable investment. 
As I said in my provisional decision, I appreciate how a very low, cautious attitude to risk 
would equate to an investment like the fixed term deposit  one that offered a guarantee on 
the invested capital. But I cant see that a very cautious attitude to risk would also equate to 
linking any investment return to a niche, specialist index, which was expected to be so 
volatile as to require a bespoke mechanism to control that volatility. As I said before, it would 
be more reasonable in, for instance, a situation where a more experienced investor was 
looking to reduce their overall exposure to risk while still maintaining an interest in this area 
of investment.
To my mind, an acceptance that linking the level of return on Mr and Mrs Gs money to the 
Green Index was suitable would beg the question what sort of index or investment would be 
deemed too risky or unsuitable where a capital guarantee was in place? As I said before, a 
link to a well-established, diversified index might have been a suitable recommendation for 
Mr and Mrs G. But I remain of the view that a link to the Green Index, albeit while offering 
some protection to the invested capital, was not suitable for them.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G engaged with the advice  there was clearly discussion of the 
tax position as NatWest has noted  and that they were provided with information about the 
Green Index. But there was still a responsibility on the adviser to ensure any recommended 
investment was suitable, which I dont think this was. 
Putting things right
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think in all the circumstances, despite the 
recommended investment featuring a capital guarantee, its nevertheless reasonable to use 
this services cautious benchmark to determine any loss to Mr and Mrs G. And its also 
reasonable to exclude from any calculation the money they placed in the Special Instant 
Access Savings Account.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs G as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice. 
I take the view that Mr and Mrs G would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs G's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested. 
What should NatWest do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs G fairly, NatWest must:Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs G's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.

NatWest should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Green 
Index Fixed 
Term 
Accountmaturedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, NatWest 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs G wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mr and Mrs G's risk profile was in between, in the sense that they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs G into that position. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs G would have invested 50% of their money in a fixed rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs G could 
have obtained from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct National 
Westminster Bank Plc to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs G as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman