DRN-2316398
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Coventry Building Society (CBS) mis-sold them a monthly 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 1993 Mr and Mrs G were applying to increase their mortgage. CBS recommended they 
also take out PPI to protect their repayments. The PPI covered Mr G only. It cost £12 a 
month and would have paid out £200 a month if Mr G had made a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs G say they werent told the PPI was optional. They say they have no history of 
buying this type of insurance and think the bank was wrong to sell them the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs case
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and Ive set out below my reasons 
for this.
This is a difficult case to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of 
the sale. So Ive based my decision on the evidence I do have and what I think is most likely 
to have happened.
Mr and Mrs Gs main concern seems to be that they didnt think the PPI was optional. CBS 
doesnt have the actual paperwork for either the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt surprising 
given the sale took place about 27 years ago and the mortgage ended in 1995. I wouldnt 
expect either Mr and Mrs G or CBS to keep paperwork indefinitely.
From what this service knows about how CBS sold PPI at the time, its likely Mr and Mrs G 
were given a choice about buying the PPI. I cant be sure what was discussed at the time as 
I wasnt there, but I see that it was set up to cover Mr G only. Mrs G wasnt eligible to buy the 
PPI as she wasnt working at the time. That does suggest that a conversation took place 
about the PPI at the time and some checks were made of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances, as 
it was tailored to their needs. 
CBS has sent us samples of the forms it used in 1993, and I cant see any reason why it 
would have treated Mr and Mrs G any differently  so on balance, I think theyd have 
completed these  or very similar  forms. The mortgage application form has a section 
about PPI (and other insurances). It gives a brief description of PPI and asks if Mr and Mrs G 
want to apply for it. Theres an option to tick yes or no. If yes is ticked then customers need 
to complete a separate application form for the PPI and authorise payment of the premiums. 
I dont think CBS would have set the PPI up if these forms hadnt been completed and 
signed by Mr and Mrs G.
Overall, I think CBS most likely gave Mr and Mrs G enough information for them to know 
they didnt have to buy the PPI, even though I do understand why theyve forgotten this over 
the years.
CBS says it didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs G. So it didnt have to check it was 
suitable for them  although it did have to provide enough information for Mr and Mrs G to 
make their own minds up. Mr G says we cant assume that because a policy might have 
been of benefit to him then he would have definitely bought it. And he says that  as our 
adjudicator said  businesses selling PPI didnt always do everything they should have, we 
should assume the PPI was mis-sold. I understand his feelings on this point, but I have to 
decide this complaint on the information I do have, and Ive weighed all the evidence 
carefully. 
From what I know of Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time, I think the policy was of 
benefit to him and Mrs G.
- Mr G was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt look like Mr G would have been affected 
by any of the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to 
pre-existing medical conditions. 
- Mr G says he would have received some sick pay if he couldnt work. But he doesnt 
know how much or for how long. And this policy would pay on top of these benefits, and 
it looks as though it would pay for longer than his sick pay probably lasted. A mortgage 
and additional borrowing is a big commitment, and I think Mr and Mrs G would have had 
some use for the policy. Thats especially so as Mr G was the only earner at the time. 
- CBS needed to give Mr and Mrs G enough information for them to make an informed 
choice about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when they were told what the PI 
would cost. But I do think theyd have known it cost something. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable, and I dont think when Mr and Mrs G first 
knew the cost affected their decision to buy the PPI. 
- Its possible that CBS could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
in regard to the things that it didnt cover. But Mr G wasnt affected by any of these things 
at the time, so I dont think that more information would have caused him to change his 
mind about buying the policy. So he isnt any worse off as a result of anything CBS may 
have done wrong. So theres nothing that CBS needs to do to put things right.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman