DRN-4364330
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about a lifetime mortgage application they made to 
more 2 life Ltd (m2l). They are unhappy that their application was declined because the 
valuation report identified that the property didnt fall withing m2ls lending criteria. 
Mr and Mrs M disagree with the valuation report. They are unhappy because m2l declined to 
exercise flexibility in relation to its lending criteria, which they consider was in breach of its 
obligations to make reasonable adjustments under the Equality Act 2010. They have said 
that the situation caused them considerable stress and injury to their feelings.
What happened
On 4 November 2022 Mr and Mrs M applied for a mortgage with m2l to purchase a new 
property for them to live in. The advice to do so was given by an independent mortgage 
broker. m2l commissioned a valuation of the property, which was completed a week later. 
This detailed that part of the habitable area of the property was constructed with a single 
skin wall and so fell outside m2ls lending criteria. It was also mentioned that there was a 
second issue with the property  the potential for asbestos  which would again mean the 
property fell outside m2ls lending criteria. m2l declined Mr and Mrs Ms application on 
10 November 2022. 
On 15 November 2022 Mr and Mrs M appealed the decision by m2l. They provided 
comment from their own surveyor regarding the issues raised in the valuation. This disputed 
that there was potentially asbestos in the property and highlighted that when the building had 
been converted it had been subject to building control, so the single skin wall should not be 
of concern to m2l.
The further comments were passed to the surveyor for comment, which confirmed where it 
had concerns about asbestos content. In relation to the single skin wall, the surveyor said 
this was reported in line with the lenders guidance. m2l didnt change its decision and 
confirmed this to Mr and Mrs M on 1 December 2022. 
Mr and Mrs M then asked m2l to reconsider its decision in light of Mrs Ms medical situation. 
They highlighted businesses had a duty to make reasonable adjustments for disabled 
customers. m2l explained that it considered an application based on the property the 
mortgage was to be secured against and its suitability for lending purposes, not the 
applicants themselves, other than where things like bankruptcy were involved. It didnt 
change its decision.
On 18 December 2022 Mr and Mrs M complained to m2l and it responded in a letter of 
13 January 2023. M2l didnt uphold the complaint as it was satisfied it followed its processes 
correctly and communicated with them in a timely manner.
Mr and Mrs M werent satisfied with m2ls response and asked the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to consider their complaint.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She explained that m2l was entitled to rely on the valuation it had commissioned, 
despite Mr and Mrs M not being happy with its content. As such, she was satisfied m2l 
hadnt done anything wrong when declining the application.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept the Investigators conclusions. They reiterated why they believed 
the valuation was wrong. They also commented again that they considered that m2l should 
have made adjustments to its lending criteria in light of Mrs Ms medical situation, as a 
reasonable adjustment. 
Our Investigator again reiterated that a lender is entitled to rely on a valuation completed by 
an appropriately qualified professional. She also confirmed that while a lender would be 
expected to make reasonable adjustments for a disabled customer, this would not extend to 
a lender being expected to lend outside its normal lending criteria. She remained satisfied 
that m2l had not unfairly declined Mr and Mrs Ms application. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and asked that the complaint be referred to an 
Ombudsman. They also commented that as m2l appointed the surveyor that completed the 
valuation, they believed that it was liable for the content of the valuation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would initially explain that whether to lend is a matter of commercial judgement on the part 
of the lending business. Generally speaking, its not my role to interfere with that judgement 
or second-guess a decision to lend (or not to lend) where that judgment has been exercised 
fairly, after proper consideration of the application. 
What I can do is assess whether a lender has exercised its discretion fairly and took 
reasonable steps to comply with the obligations placed on it by relevant law, regulation and 
what is considered good business practice at the time of the events complained of. 
A lender will decide what types of property it is willing to provide mortgages for. Different 
types of properties and construction will represent different risks if repayment of the money 
owed is dependent on the property being sold. A lender is entitled to decide what types of 
risk it is willing to take when it lends, and thats again not something this service would 
normally look to interfere with. 
When Mr and Mrs M applied for a mortgage m2l agreed in principle to lend them the money 
they wanted. As lenders are not property experts, m2l employed a surveyor to assess the 
property and create a valuation report for it to use. m2ls duty was to ensure a valuation was 
carried out by a suitably qualified person or business. As the firm of surveyors in this case 
was Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) registered, I am satisfied that m2l 
fulfilled its duty in appointing properly qualified persons to value the property. 
The valuation identified two issues that potentially conflicted with m2ls lending criteria, and 
when this information was assessed by m2l, it concluded the property was not suitable 
security for the mortgage Mr and Mrs M applied for. m2l was entitled to rely on the expert 
opinion it had commissioned. So I cant find it was unreasonable for m2l to decline 
Mr and Mrs Ms application for a mortgage on the property they wanted to buy.
I note Mr and Mrs Ms comment that as m2l appointed the surveyor, it is responsible for the 
surveyors conclusions. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but that is not the case. I 
would also confirm surveyors dont fall within the remit of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
and so I cant comment on whether or not the surveyors report was correct or not. That said, when Mr and Mrs M questioned the report and provided comment from their own surveyor, 
m2l took their concerns seriously and referred them to the surveyor, in case they would have 
made a difference to its conclusions. In doing so, m2l did what I would have expected it to 
do. 
Mr and Mrs M have raised the issue of m2l not acting as it should have in light of Mrs Ms 
medical situation. The relevant legislation (the Equality Act 2010) requires m2l to make 
reasonable adjustments to ensure people with protected characteristics (disability being one 
such characteristic) have equal access to the services it provides. What it doesnt require 
m2l to do is to change its lending policy (or apply it differently) such that a person with a 
protected characteristic receives a more favourable outcome than someone without that 
characteristic. As such, I cant find that m2l acted inappropriately when it declined to lend on 
a property that didnt fall within its lending criteria.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept or reject my decision 
before 27 October 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman