DRN-2401659
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) unfairly 
declined cover for a claim they made on a legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V had legal expenses insurance provided by UKI as an add-on to a home 
insurance policy. In 2014, a dispute arose between Mr and Mrs V and one of their 
neighbours over the boundary between their properties.
Mr and Mrs V made a claim on their policy. UKI appointed a solicitor to assess Mr and Mrs 
Vs prospects of success in their dispute. Ill refer to the solicitor as D. D determined that the 
claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of success. UKI then declined to fund further 
expenses in line with the policys terms and conditions.
In 2017, Mr and Mrs V contacted UKI again. Theyd continued with proceedings against their 
neighbour. A further assessment was done and it was determined that the case did enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs V complained to UKI. They said that the decision to stop funding the 
claim in 2014 was unreasonable. They were also unhappy that the possibility of challenging 
Ds assessment about the prospects of success hadnt been clear. They also said that as 
UKI had appointed D, D was acting in UKIs interests, rather than theirs. They asked for UKI 
to reimburse them the legal costs theyd incurred in pursuing the case between 2014 and 
2017.
When UKI rejected the complaint, Mr and Mrs V referred it to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs V were dissatisfied with this outcome 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two distinct elements to this complaint which Ill consider separately. These are 
the prospects of success assessment and the appointment of D.
The prospects of success assessment
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Vs policy say there must be at least a 51% chance 
of you recovering your losses or damages or obtaining any other legal remedy we agree to 
including an enforcement of judgment, making a successful defence or making a successful 
appeal or defence of an appeal, and We and the appointed representative must agree that 
there are reasonable prospects of success and these must continue for the duration of the 
claim. Such conditions are common in these types of policy.
D gave an opinion on Mr and Mrs Vs claim in 2014. They concluded that, based on the 
evidence made available to them at that time, the claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success. This was communicated to Mr and Mrs V both by telephone and in writing.
My role here isnt to comment on the quality of the legal advice given by D, unless theres 
something obviously wrong with it which a layperson would spot. I know Mr and Mrs V argue 
that the conclusion reached by D was wrong, but Im not in a position to say this. Having 
looked at Ds assessment, it seems that they were unable to satisfactorily conclude that the 
claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success without further, expert, evidence being 
provided. I dont think this indicates that the assessment was obviously wrong. And even 
though the case was taken on by another solicitor in 2014 and then reassessed as having 
reasonable prospects of success in 2017, this doesnt mean I can conclude that the advice 
given by D in 2014 was obviously wrong. 
Mr and Mrs V are also unhappy that, having been informed that D had concluded there were 
no reasonable prospects of success, they werent clearly told how this could be challenged. I 
cant agree that this is the case.
Looking at the two letters sent to Mr and Mrs V after D had completed their assessment, I 
can see that they were informed that if expert advice could be provided to support their 
position, the matter could be looked at again. They were also advised to speak to UKI if they 
wanted to discuss the policy terms.
In addition, the policy terms and conditions say that If there are conflicting opinions over 
reasonable prospects of success or the value of your claim you will be required to obtain an 
opinion from a barrister agreed by you and us. 
I think that from these letters, and the policy terms and conditions, there was enough 
information available to Mr and Mrs V for them to query with UKI the steps they could take if 
they disagreed with Ds assessment of the prospects of success. They could have asked 
what further evidence or information would be required from an expert, or what they needed 
to do in order to potentially require a barristers assessment. I cant see that they did either of 
these in 2014. Instead, they appear to have taken the decision to pursue the matter 
separately, without providing further information to UKI or D until 2017.
The appointment of D
The policys terms and conditions say We have chosen a panel of law firms to provide legal 
services. These legal specialists are chosen as they have the expertise to deal with your 
claim and must comply with our agreed service standards. If it is necessary to take your 
claim to court, or if there is a conflict of interests, you can choose the appointed 
representative to act for you.
D was instructed by UKI to determine whether the claim had reasonable prospects of 
success. As Ds advice was that the claim wasnt likely to be successful, they werent entitled 
to cover or to have solicitors appointed to act for them. 
Even if the claim did have reasonable prospects of success, at the point of contacting UKI in 
2014, Mr and Mrs Vs case wasnt being taken to court. So Im satisfied that, unless there 
was a conflict of interest, UKI would have been entitled, in accordance with the policy terms 
and conditions, to appoint D, one of its panel of law firms.
I havent seen anything from Mr and Mrs V, other than a business relationship between UKI 
and D, which suggests that there was a conflict of interest which meant that they should 
have been free to appoint their own legal representatives from the outset of the claim. I cant conclude UKI acted unreasonably in appointing D. But as Ive said, they first had to show the 
claim had reasonable prospects of success before any solicitors would be appointed to act 
for them.
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman