DRN-3519992
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has unfairly declined a legal 
expenses insurance (LEI) claim.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs S or Aviva includes any representatives or agents.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Around October 2021, Mr S says his vehicle was damaged by his local authority.
Mr S contacted Aviva and was initially told the claim would be considered. 
Just over a month after, Company A, Avivas administrator for LEI claims, said the 
LEI policy (under Consumer Disputes) didnt provide cover for this situation so the 
claim would be declined. Instead, it said the policy covered disputes that included 
agreements for the sale, purchase or hire of goods or services. And in this instance, 
there was no such agreement between Mr S and the local authority. 
Mr S complained, saying it had wasted his time. Aviva reviewed what happened and 
agreed its staff couldve told Mr S the claim would never be covered in his first call. 
So, it apologised for the delay in informing him, and for the efforts hed made in 
providing documentation. And it awarded him £50 in compensation.
Mr S brought his complaint to this Service. He said the mismanagement of 
expectations was difficult, particularly in light of personal circumstances around the 
time. And he said he would like Aviva to cover the claim.
Our Investigator considered the claim and didnt uphold it. She agreed the 
circumstances of the claim didnt meet the requirements of the insurance policy. And 
she said Aviva couldve told Mr S earlier than it did. She felt there was no issue with 
the policy terms and wasnt persuade to direct Aviva to cover the claim.
Mr S disagreed, and made reference to being mis-sold the policy. Our Investigator 
looked again but didnt change her mind, saying the policy only covered insured 
perils, which these circumstances didnt meet. Mr S also made reference to the font 
used in Avivas response which suggested it had been copied and paste from 
another document.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S policy is clear that it covers disputes regarding agreements for the sale, 
purchase or hire of goods or services that are not for business use.
It doesnt appear in dispute that Mr S has no contract or any sort of agreement with 
the local authority in question  related to the damage to the vehicle. So, its clear to 
me this claim is not covered by the policy.
Mr S has said that the claim should be covered more widely as the policy refers to 
pursuing or defending a claim for damages. While the policy does say this, it 
specifically says it will do this for the insured events described which it goes on to 
list, including employment, property, consumer, personal injury, and medical or 
cosmetic negligence disputes. None of which apply here or match the circumstances 
of Mr S claim. So, this doesnt change my mind.
Aviva has acknowledged it couldve given Mr S clearer advice in the first call he had 
with it, and that it shouldve told him the circumstances of the claim meant it would 
not be covered. So, I dont need to make a further finding on this as Aviva accepts it 
made a mistake and shouldve been clearer here.
So, I have to go on to consider the impact of this. I can understand that Mr S would 
be frustrated and disappointed by the news that his claim wasnt covered, and more 
so knowing Aviva couldve been told him this at the start. But he was told of its 
reasons just after a month of his first call, and Im satisfied its apology and 
compensation paid is sufficient in this complaint. So, Im not directing it to do 
anything further.
Mr S has mentioned the quality of its final response and that it appeared to copy and 
paste wording. Even if this was the case, the impact of this appears limited to me as 
Im satisfied its offer of compensation is sufficient for the mistakes Aviva has made 
and recognised. 
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman