DRN-2968621
The complaint
Mrs K complains that she was mis-sold a fixed sum loan with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc 
for a car. She also says that no proper affordability checks were undertaken before she 
was provided with loan.
This complaint has been brought on behalf of Mrs K by a family member but for ease of 
reference I am only going to refer to Mrs K in my provisional decision as the agreement is 
in her name.
What happened
In October 2018 Mrs K attended a car dealership with the intention of acquiring a car to 
be used by close family. She says that although the agreement was to be in her name 
the monthly payments were actually going to be covered by this other person.
Mrs K was supplied with a used car from the dealer and as part of the deal she traded 
in another car she had on finance in part-exchange. However, the trade-in price for 
the car didnt cover the outstanding finance meaning there was an amount of negative 
equity to clear. This amount was added to the credit agreement that was arranged 
with Hitachi.
Mrs K took the car in October 2019, but unfortunately the family member then suffered a 
change in their financial circumstances, and they were no longer able to pay for the car. 
Mrs K contacted the dealership and asked if she could return it.
Mrs K says she was shocked to be told by the dealer that the car actually belonged to her 
as she had taken out a fixed sum loan for it over a period of five years. She said she 
believed she had entered into a hire purchase agreement for the car instead. Mrs K says 
she had asked the salesperson at the time she acquired the car that if there was any 
change would she be able to return it and had been assured that she could. She says if 
she had known it was a fixed sum loan agreement, she wouldnt have agreed to enter into 
it.
Mrs K complained to Hitachi that she had been mis-sold the fixed sum loan agreement 
and that no proper affordability checks had been carried out before the loan had been 
approved. If they had, Mrs K says that it would have been clear this loan was 
unaffordable for her. Mrs K says Hitachi hasnt shown any duty of care to her as she is a 
vulnerable customer.
Hitachi said Mrs Ks complaint was for the supplying dealer to respond to and forwarded it 
to them. So, Mrs K brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. She said that she didnt think there 
was evidence that the agreement had been mis-sold. And even if Mrs K had acquired the 
car via a hire purchase agreement rather than a loan, it was likely she would have faced a 
financial liability if she had wanted to return the car early and settle the finance.
Our investigator also said that while she didnt think Hitachi had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks into Mrs Ks income and outgoings, having now looked at 
these, she thought Hitachi would have considered the loan was affordable. She said 
Hitachi hadnt acted unfairly.
Mrs K disagreed with our investigators view. She said that the loan had been mis-sold 
and she had relied on what the salesperson had said about being able to return the car. 
Mrs K says that if the car had been acquired via a hire purchase agreement then the 
affordability and risk factors would have been lower.
As the parties havent been able to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to 
me. I issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
Mrs Ks complaint raised several issues regarding the loan that Hitachi had provided to her 
to finance the car. Mrs K said the most important one was that the fixed sum loan was 
mis-sold to her.
Here, the car wasnt intended to be used by Mrs K but another close family member. 
However, as the agreement was in Mrs Ks name then she was responsible for it, so it was 
her income and expenses that were relevant.
Id also seen that when this car was purchased, Mrs K had traded in a car she already had in 
her name and under finance. Mrs K had had that car since 2016 and had been making 
payments of £148 per month for it. I assumed this was a hire purchase agreement as the 
dealer had settled that finance when accepting the car but there had been a negative equity 
element of £1,626 which was added to the amount borrowed under the fixed sum loan.
Mrs K said she wanted a hire purchase agreement so that the car could be returned at any 
time if circumstances changed and that she had asked the salesperson about handing it 
back if she needed to. She said she had been assured this would be fine. I therefore needed 
to consider whether this fixed sum loan was misrepresented and/or mis-sold to her.
For me to be satisfied the fixed sum loan had been misrepresented to Mrs K I needed to be 
satisfied that the salesperson had probably made an untrue statement which Mrs K had 
relied on when deciding whether to take out the agreement.
Here, I didnt know what was said to Mrs K by the salesperson, but I thought it was unlikely 
Mrs K had been told she had taken the car on a hire purchase or that she could just give the 
car back at any point and cancel the agreement. 
I said this because Mrs K herself had said she was told by the salesperson they had 
arranged a finance package so I didnt think the term hire purchase had been used by the 
salesperson to describe what this finance was. Id also seen that the loan agreement was 
clearly headed fixed sum loan and that as Mrs K had had a hire purchase agreement in the 
past, I thought it was fair to have expected to her to have been aware that this meant it 
wasnt a hire purchase agreement.
Mrs K said a hire purchase agreement would have been more suitable as she could have 
returned the car at any point and said she had asked the salesperson if this was option 
would be open to her. But I didnt think it was likely that the salesperson would have given 
the assurance Mrs K said she had received. This was because even with hire purchase 
agreements it would be unusual for a credit agreement to be ended early without any 
financial liability being incurred before 50% of the total credit borrowed had been repaid. So, 
Mrs K would have needed to have kept the car until that point had been reached.
There would also have been the issue of the negative equity which would have needed to be paid in full and I thought the salesperson would have been aware of that, so again, wouldnt 
have given the assurance the car could simply be handed back at any time.
I also thought that had this agreement been a hire purchase agreement that it was unlikely 
Mrs K would have found herself in a better position than she had been with the fixed sum 
loan. This was because she would still have owed the credit provider the negative equity 
element and the cost of terminating the agreement. Here, Mrs K was able to sell the car 
privately which may raise a better price for the car than if it was sold by the credit provider at 
an auction.
So, I didnt think the fixed sum loan was either misrepresented or mis-sold to Mrs K. But to 
say Hitachi hadnt done anything wrong I also needed to be satisfied that this loan was 
affordable for Mrs K.
When looking at whether a credit agreement was fair and affordable, I needed to take into 
account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. There are two 
overarching questions I needed to think about in order to decide what was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These are:
Did Hitachi complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs 
K would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
a). If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b). If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs K 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay the agreement
Did Hitachi act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I was aware that Mrs K has a limited income and that this situation was not going to change. 
The loan was for a total amount of around £15,000 being made up of the cost of the car, the 
negative equity and the interest less a £100 deposit from Mrs K. The agreement was for a 
five-year period and the monthly payments were around £250 per month. Looking at the 
information taken by the dealer regarding Mrs Ks income I can see it has been recorded as 
£9,500 which appeared to be fairly close to her actual income. She was also described as 
working full time but as being retired which was confusing.
Hitachi said credit checks would have also been carried out, but I didnt know what was seen 
when these were undertaken as Hitachi has been unable to share these with us. Although, I 
was aware Mrs K had made regular payments on the hire purchase agreement for the car 
that was traded-in and that there were no defaults or CCJs registered on her credit file. 
Looking at the level of the payments and the length of the agreement, I thought it was 
reasonable to say Hitachi should have conducted more enquiries with Mrs K as to whether 
this loan was affordable and sustainable. I didnt think I could reasonably say the checks that 
were carried out were borrower focused. In particular there didnt appear to have been 
enquiries regarding Mrs Ks being retired and in receipt of a pension and I therefore thought 
Hitachi should have sought to verify her income. I also thought Hitachi should have asked 
questions about Mrs Ks committed outgoings given the size of the amount borrowed and 
her stated income as the repayments would have been a substantial commitment for Mrs K 
to meet being slightly over 25% of her monthly income.
Looking at the FCAS Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) which sets out rules on 
responsible lending by consumer credit firms and to assist credit providers to assess a 
customers ability to repay credit. At the time of the lending to Mrs K CONC 5.3.1 said:(4) If a firm takes income or expenditure into account in its creditworthiness 
assessment or its assessment required under CONC 5,2,2R (1)
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
Mrs K had provided this service with details of her income and outgoings and also sent in 
copies of her bank statements. Id seen that the household bills were shared with her 
husband but, as already stated, this agreement is in Mrs Ks name, so it was her income I 
needed to consider. I didnt know what information Hitachi would have asked her for if it 
had looked in more detail about her income and outgoings, so I looked at the information 
that was provided to this service.
From the details given of Mrs Ks income and her outgoings, I could see that she spent 
around half her monthly income on essential items. From an income of around £820 the 
following items were paid for by Mrs K each month:
TV Licence £6
Gas and electric £59 
Water £25
Council tax £60 
Food £200 
Travel £10 
Phone £5
TV Network £40
Total expenses = £405
This left Mrs K with around £415 per month as disposable income. I appreciated Mrs K 
had raised other expenses such as cigarettes which I hadnt included in the above 
figures, but as set out by our investigator, these items were unlikely to have been 
considered as essential by Hitachi.
So, when considering the amount of disposable income Mrs K had, the monthly cost of 
the loan, and that there was little reason to consider her financial situation would alter, I 
thought it was more likely than not that Hitachi would have decided the loan was 
affordable for Mrs K as she would have still had around £170 per month left.
The final issue for me to consider was whether Hitachi had acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
As set out above I didnt think the fixed sum loan was mis-sold or misrepresented to Mrs 
K. I thought Mrs K had understood this was a loan for the car, its length and the amount 
payable each month. 
Hitachi was aware that Mrs K was now finding repayments difficult and I hadnt seen any 
evidence that it had handled that inappropriately. Id seen that it had asked Mrs K to 
complete income and expense information forms and had raised the option of her selling 
the car privately though that was unlikely to cover her full liability under the loan. However, 
I thought Hitachi had shown its willingness to engage with Mrs K over the repayment of 
this loan.
While I appreciated my provisional view would be of disappointment to Mrs K, I dont 
intend to uphold her complaint.Mrs K doesnt agree with my provisional view and feels Ive not understood the points she 
had raised in her complaint. She hasnt raised anything she would specifically like me to look 
at again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs K disagrees with my provisional view, I have reviewed the evidence and the 
conclusions I reached, but I havent changed my view.
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied that the fixed sum loan wasnt misrepresented or 
mis-sold to Mrs K and I also dont think that by being provided with this type of agreement 
rather than a hire purchase agreement that she has ended up in a worse financial position. 
As explained above, with a hire purchase agreement, unless Mrs K had repaid at least 50% 
of the total amount borrowed there would have been a financial liability to clear if that 
agreement had terminated early and the car handed back. Meaning with a hire purchase 
agreement she would have faced having to pay the cost of terminating the agreement 
together with the negative equity from the earlier settled agreement. However, as she is in 
fact the owner of the car, she could now arrange to sell it privately and pay off some of the 
outstanding balance on the loan which wouldnt have been an option with a hire purchase 
agreement.
While I still think that Hitachi didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure 
the fixed sum loan was affordable for Mrs K, I then need to go on and consider whether, if 
those checks had been carried out, Mrs K could sustainably repay the agreement. Looking 
at the evidence as to her income and outgoings, I still think Hitachi would have considered 
the loan was affordable for Mrs K.
I havent seen any evidence that Hitachi has acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs K in 
regard to this loan.
So, for the reasons given above Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint. 
My final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman