DRN-2336804
The complaint
Mr H has complained to Dentons Pension Management Limited about the service its 
provided to him. Mr H has said that it didnt inform him of the implications of making pension 
contributions once hed applied for Fixed Protection on his lifetime allowance (LTA) in 2012. 
Mr H has also said that, although his pension statements showed that hed exceeded his 
LTA, Dentons failed to inform him of the significant tax liability hed have as a result of this.
What happened
In 2012, Mr H received a letter from HMRC informing him that the new LTA would be £1.8m. 
His pension scheme benefits at the time were valued at around £1.2m. In February 2012, 
Dentons wrote to Mr H to explain how the LTA worked and the protection which was 
available to him. This was followed up by an email in March 2012 in which Dentons said it 
would submit Mr Hs application for Fixed Protection on his behalf.
Mr H then made a further contribution in February 2013, which meant that his LTA was 
reduced to £1.5m.
In April 2019, Dentons sent Mr H an email telling him that the there would be a tax liability on 
his 75Th birthday of around £160,000, as his pension fund value exceeded the LTA. Mr H 
then complained to Dentons on the above detailed basis, saying that if hed been made 
aware of the tax liability he would have made changes to avoid the large tax bill. 
Mr H also cited an example of misleading information as being the annual summary he 
received in May 2019, in which his tax liabilities were recorded as nil. But this was very 
shortly before he was informed it was would be in the region of £160,000 when he reached 
75.
Dentons didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint, and wrote to him in October 2019 explaining its 
rationale. It said the following in summary:
When it wrote to Mr H in February 2012 about the LTA, it said that Your benefits will 
be tested against this LTA when they first come into payment and again when you 
either buy an annuity or reach age 75. If your benefits exceed the LTA, the excess 
will be taxed at 55%.
It added that the same letter also said that The only disadvantage of doing so (i.e. to 
register for Fixed Protection) is that no further contributions can be paid into any 
pension arrangement on your behalf.
In the follow up email of March 2012, it said that You must not pay contributions to 
any pension scheme after 5th April 2012 and the Fixed Protection will remain in 
place.
With regard to the complaint that it hadnt made Mr H aware of the tax liability he 
would face, it said that, notwithstanding the above warnings given in 2012, Dentons 
didnt profess to be a tax expert and wasnt able to give specialist advice. But it did 
note that Mr H had said in May 2015 that he would be taking advice from his 
accountant.
Regarding the annual statement dated April 2019, it said that it was recording the fact 
that, as at the date of statement, there was no tax liability. However, this did then 
prompt Mr Hs Administrator at Dentons to write to him on 12 April 2019 telling Mr H 
that he would have a tax liability at age 75.
Dissatisfied with the response, Mr H referred his complaint to this service. In the absence of 
file documents provided by Dentons, the investigator initially concluded that the complaint 
should be upheld. But when Dentons did provide the relevant documentation, including the 
information set out above, the investigator changed her view.
In summary, she said the following:
She noted that Dentons was appointed as Mr Hs pension administrator rather than 
his financial adviser or investment manager. The terms of business also corroborated 
this, saying that Dentons would not provide advice about the suitability or 
appropriateness of investments.
Dentons didnt conduct annual reviews for Mr H, but rather issued annual statements.
She thought that the correspondence with Mr H in 2012 was clear enough on the 
subject of Mr H needing to not make further contributions to maintain his Fixed 
Protection. But unfortunately, as a further contribution was made in 2013, this was 
lost.
Mr H may have relied upon Dentons to inform him as to whether he had 
overcontributed to his pension, but the investigator didnt think this would have been 
Dentons responsibility. Rather, Mr H would have needed to consult with a financial 
adviser, as set out in the terms of business.
With regard to any ongoing communication about his tax liability, the investigator 
didnt think this was Dentons role. She also accepted Dentons explanation as to why 
the April 2019 statement didnt include the amount of tax which would later be due 
when Mr H turned 75.
Mr H disagreed, however, saying the following:
Dentons terms of business were written for its own protection, but in practice it went 
further, and provided advice.
It had a duty of care, and demonstrably provided this.
The client letter issued in May 2019 was the first time it included a piece on the 
standard LTA. This was just six weeks after hed been informed of his tax liability.
Dentons was negligent in not informing him for three years of his tax liability in the 
annual statements. This should have been included in a similar way to a balance 
sheet.
The tax liability was essential information and Dentons should have informed him of 
this, even as administrators. But Dentons had been negligent in its provision of yearly 
information to him.
The investigator responded to say that she understood Mr Hs point about the annual 
statement, but whilst she agreed that it might be helpful to include projections of future tax 
liabilities, this wasnt a requirement. The statements were designed to show the position of 
an individuals pension at that particular time.
As agreement hasnt been reached on the matter, however, its been referred to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, Im 
broadly in agreement with the investigators findings, and for the same reasons. As such, 
theres little which I think I can meaningfully add.
But for clarity, Ive noted that Mr H hasnt disputed receiving the communication from 
Dentons in 2012, which in my view was sufficiently clear both in terms of setting out the 
mechanics of the LTA, helping Mr H put in place Fixed Protection, and then telling Mr H that 
he shouldnt make any further pension contributions.
Mr H then did so in 2013, which meant that his protection was reduced to £1.5m. His 
pension funds may still have been below that threshold at that point, but even if this was the 
case, it would have afforded less room for investment growth. Had an allowance of £1.8m 
been retained, and as noted by Mr H himself, his tax liability would have been much 
reduced.
But given the transparency of the communication from Dentons on this matter, I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to uphold that aspect of Mr Hs complaint.
Ive then given careful consideration to the ongoing communication relating to the tax liability 
which Mr H would likely face at age 75, when an individuals fund value is assessed against 
their LTA, irrespective of the absence of any benefit crystallisation events which would in the 
normal course of events necessitate such an evaluation.
I agree with the investigator that an annual statement should be a reflection of a pension 
funds value, inclusive of any tax liabilities outstanding, at that point in time. They arent 
designed to project forward.
Mr H has said that Dentons exceeded their mandate by giving advice, and that it therefore 
followed that it had a duty of care to provide a service to its clients which would include 
information on tax liabilities. My apologies here if Mr H disagrees with my summary of his 
view on that point, but although the lines, in terms of the service provided, may have 
sometimes been blurred - which might reasonably be inferred as a helpfulness beyond the 
requirements of the terms of business - I dont think Dentons owed Mr H a service which 
would extend to the provision of tax advice.
Moreover, Mr H would  or ought to - have been aware of the ramifications of making the 
further contribution after hed applied for Fixed Protection. And he was availing himself of the 
services of an accountant, who, in the knowledge of this, would have been in a position to 
advise on the possible future tax implications.
And whilst Im not seeking to open up a further avenue of dialogue here  I think the 
circumstances of the case as set out above are sufficient for a fair and reasonable 
conclusion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld  Ive also weighed the possible action 
which Mr H might have been able to take to make up for the £300,000 reduction in his 
protection after the Fixed Protection was relinquished.
The point here really is that the contribution simultaneously served to increase the pension 
fund and reduce the associated LTA protection. So my understanding is that the headroom 
for investment growth suffered a dual setback. Its possible that Mr H could have taken 
benefits before age 75, at which point the fund would have been assessed against the LTA, 
but if he didnt need those benefits he would then have been relinquishing tax efficient fund 
growth, even if this was ultimately taxed at 55%.So its unclear as to what type of effective mitigating action could have been taken in any 
case  and I dont think Mr H has been specific about the form this would have taken either. 
But as Ive said above, even if Im wrong on this particular point, I dont think this alters the 
outcome of the case.
Overall, I dont doubt that learning of the tax liability on his pension funds would, to say the 
least, have been disappointing to Mr H. And Im sympathetic to this. But from hopefully a 
more positive perspective, its also the case that this was effectively borne of tax efficient 
pension contributions and fund growth.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman