DRN-2143304
The complaint
Mr S says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about 8 short term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr S between January 
2016 and September 2019. Details of the 8 loans are as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 02/01/2016 18/02/2016 3 250 129.33
2 20/02/2016 26/05/2016 3 500 298.66
3 28/05/2016 28/07/2016 3 750 407.95
4 28/07/2016 29/04/2017 12 1000 213.83
5 01/05/2017 02/05/2018 12 1500 316.81
6 07/05/2018 03/10/2018 9 1000 281.67
7 05/10/2018 03/09/2019 12 1200 253.45
8 06/09/2019 21/12/2019 6 800 284.13
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint in part and thought the loans from loan 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender didnt agree and so Mr Ss complaint has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, 
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
I agree with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there was nothing to indicate Mr 
Lender needed to do more when it approved loans 1-3. This was early on in the lending 
relationship between Mr S and Mr Lender. The repayments for each loan would have 
seemed affordable based on what Mr S had told it. So, I dont think Mr Lender was wrong to 
give these loans to him.
However, as our adjudicator explained, by loan four the pattern of Mr Ss borrowing showed 
that he was showing signs that he was struggling to repay. I have drawn this conclusion 
because: 
Mr S repaid loan 1 and then two days later took out loan 2. He repaid loan 2, 
and again within 2 days took out a further loan. When he repaid loan 3, he took 
out loan 4 on the same day. So, he was relending shortly after he was repaying 
his loans and he did this on 3 occasions in short succession. 
Mr S was not making any inroads into the amount he was borrowing and the 
amounts were actually increasing. By the time he had asked for loan 4, he was 
asking for an amount that was 4 times his first loan.
This shows me that at this point, he was most likely unable to repay his 
previous loan without taking out a new one and was borrowing again to fill a gap 
in his finances. 
I think when I consider all of these points together, it shows that there was a significant risk 
that Mr S would be unable to meet his repayments for loan 4 because he was showing signs 
that he was struggling to repay in a sustainable way. In addition to this, I dont think Mr Lender carried out proportionate checks for loan 4. I say 
this because Mr S had been lending from it for around 6 months and the amount he was 
asking to borrow was significantly higher than his first loan. He was also asking to lend over 
a much longer period of time. I think Mr Lender should have, at this point asked him for 
further information about his other short-term lending. 
Had Mr Lender done so, I think it would most likely have made a different lending decision 
about this loan and for all of the loans took out by Mr S going forward. I say this because Mr 
Lender would have seen with better checks that there were clear signs that Mr S was 
struggling to manage his money. At the same time as applying for loan 4, Mr S had taken out 
short-term high cost credit from six other lenders. So, it was most likely he was just 
borrowing to pay off other loans. 
It follows that I dont think Mr Lender should have given loan 4 and every loan agreed after 
this point to Mr S.
Ive then looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Mr S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I again agree with the adjudicator and 
think that this point was reached at loan 6. I say this because:
At this point Mr Lender ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr S had taken out five loans within 28 months and was asking for 
a sixth. I think it was more likely than not Mr S had to borrow further to cover the hole 
repaying his previous loan(s) was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ss 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender. Mr Lender 
ought to have known that Mr S was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing need. Mr S had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect; service a debt to Mr Lender over an extended period.
I think this pattern of lending should have alerted Mr Lender to the likelihood that Mr 
S was having problems managing his money. I think that Mr Lender shouldve been 
concerned that Mr S might be borrowing elsewhere to repay its loans, again 
increasing his indebtedness unsustainably.
I think that Mr S lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
The number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ss ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint from loans 4 onwards and because of this, Mr Lender 
should put things right. 
Putting things rightrefund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loans 4 to 8;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan 4 from Mr Ss credit file
the number of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so all entries about loans 6 to 8 should be removed from Mr 
Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Mr S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2020.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman