DRN-4501161
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the poor service he received from Mulsanne Insurance 
Company Limited when he made a claim under his car insurance policy. 
All reference to the insurer Mulsanne in my decision include its agents. 
What happened
In March 2023 Mr S made a claim to his insurer, Mulsanne following an incident involving 
another vehicle. 
In May 2023 Mr S told us he complained by phone to Mulsanne on 16 March 2023 as he 
was unhappy that it said it wouldnt defend or deal with his claim. He said he wasnt at fault 
for the incident. Mr S said he hadnt heard from Mulsanne.
We contacted Mulsanne. It said it hadnt received a complaint from Mr S. It provided some 
notes from its file. 
Our Investigator thought Mulsanne hadnt said it wouldnt deal with the claim as it had 
arranged repairs for Mr Ss car and so thought this may have been a misunderstanding. He 
didnt think Mulsanne had caused undue delay and explained that when a third party is 
involved, any delay caused in awaiting a stance on liability from them is outside of 
Mulsannes control. 
Mr S didnt agree. I issued a provisional decision on 1 December 2023 intending to uphold 
the complaint and asked for Mulsanne to pay Mr S £350 compensation.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. So the case has been passed back to me for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my provisional decision, my final decision is on the same lines. 
In my provisional findings I wrote:
Our Investigator asked Mulsanne to provide call recordings for key calls in March 
2023. 
Mr S provided us with a copy of his phone record which shows he made calls of 
around 43 minutes each to Mulsanne on 14 and 20 March 2023. Mr S says he 
complained to Mulsanne in March 2023 by phone. 
Mulsannes file notes show that Mr S spoke with it on 14 March and 20 March 2023. 
He reported the incident on 14 March 2023. He discussed whether his claim would 
be treated as a non fault hire services claim or a claim through his policy on 20 
March 2023. 
When the Investigator provided proof of Mr Ss calls, Mulsanne said the calls 
terminated before Mr S spoke to Mulsanne. But its notes arent consistent with this 
statement. 
From the notes of the call from Mr S on 20 March 2023, Mulsanne explained to Mr S 
that its non-fault service wouldnt be able to deal with the claim - but that it would deal 
with the claim. 
Insurers sometimes offer a non fault service if they believe liability is likely to be 
agreed immediately on a claim. This means a customer can received enhance 
benefits to what a standard insurance policy offers for a non-fault claim, such as an 
equivalent replacement car, and without having to make a claim against the policy. 
However, if a third party doesnt immediately admit fault, a business will usually not 
proceed with this service, as there is a risk the costs will ultimately be owed by the 
policyholder. 
I have had to make assumptions because of the limited notes provided by Mulsanne, 
but I have assumed that this service was offered to Mr S on 14 March 2023. But 
because the third party didnt immediately admit fault, the non-fault service wasnt 
available and so Mulsanne was to deal with the claim in the usual way under Mr Ss 
policy. Its possible that this was clearly explained to Mr S on 20 March 2023, and 
there was a misunderstanding. Mr S complains that Mulsanne told him it wouldnt 
deal or defend his claim. Without the call recording, I have no way of knowing if 
liability was discussed during this call and what - if any - information Mr S was given 
for him to have the impression he did by the end of the call. 
Mulsannes notes record that Mr S was unhappy with this outcome and said he was 
going to speak to his broker. So although Mulsanne say Mr S didnt make a 
complaint, according to Mr S, he says he raised a complaint about how Mulsanne 
was dealing with the claim on 16 March (this later was corrected from his phone 
records to 20 March 2023).
So I think its possible that Mr S did raise a complaint on 20 March 2023 with 
Mulsanne. 
There is then a gap in Mulsannes notes (other than a note titled general email on 6 
April 2023) until 27 April 2023 where a voicemail message has been left with Mr S. 
On 28 April 2023 there is a note of call with Mr S to discuss repairs. Its not clear to 
me why there was such a gap from 20 March 2023 - and what prompted a call to 
arrange repairs over a month later. In the absence of an explanation, I find Mulsanne 
seems to be responsible for failing to progress the claim here. 
I cannot see that Mulsanne contacted the third party to defend liability until 17 July 
2023. This is four months after Mr S reported the incident. So in the absence of any 
new information, I find Mulsanne has caused undue delay in progressing the claim. 
Repairs were booked in for around 8 May 2023. Mr Ss MOT expired on 12 May 2023 
and he was unhappy that Mulsanne didnt offer assistance with this. I understand Mr 
Ss concern here. He said he was very worried about driving his car after repair to 
have an MOT carried out, when it had expired. 
Ordinarily I would say that this isnt the responsibility of Mulsanne. But because it 
seems Mulsanne unreasonably caused delays in arranging repairs and progressing 
the claim, Ive taken the added worry and inconvenience of the timing of this event 
into account.
So I intend to uphold Mr Ss complaint. I think Mulsanne caused avoidable delays in 
the handling of Mr Ss claim. Its clear that - contrary to what it told us - Mr S did 
speak with Mulsanne on 14 and 20 March 2023. Putting things right
For the distress and inconvenience caused by Mulsanne, I think it should pay Mr S £350 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr S £350 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by it poor handling of his claim. 
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman