DRN-3437425
The complaint
Mr R complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank hasnt reimbursed 
transactions he made to a scam investment broker.
What happened
In 2017, Mr R found firm P online. He was looking to make some extra money and P 
suggested it was a broker who could offer him training and support in investing, as well as 
very lucrative investment opportunities, so he began trading through it.
In 2017, over a period of four weeks Mr R used his Tesco Bank credit card to send five 
transactions to P totalling £10,000. Following this, he wanted to withdraw some of the funds 
hed made, but he was told by P he couldnt do this until sufficient trades had been made to 
release his bonuses. And then when these further trades were made by P, for Mr R to action 
his withdrawal, his funds were depleted, and no money was received. He stopped trading 
with P and let the account go dormant.
In 2019, Mr R was contacted by another company, W. It said it had taken over from P and 
still had his account with the remaining balance. It offered to help Mr R start trading again 
and reassured him under its terms he could withdraw. Mr R sent additional funds, £4,000 
from his Tesco Bank credit card. But when he went to withdraw from W, again, he was 
unable to. At this point Mr R realised hed been the victim of a scam.
Mr R wrote to the businesses who hed paid the funds from and explained what had 
happened. Mr R first sent funds using his Tesco Bank credit card, then later used other 
credit cards. By the time he wrote to the credit card providers, hed found warnings about P 
and W from the regulator and many negative reviews saying they were a linked scam firm. 
He asked for the funds he sent to be reimbursed. I havent been able to see a copy of Tesco 
Banks response to Mr Rs complaint, but I understand it wasnt upheld.
Mr R brought his complaint to our service. Tesco Bank didnt agree it was one we could look 
into and didnt supply our service with a file. I issued a decision stating it was within our 
jurisdiction and Tesco Bank said it would then send its file and set out why it was defending 
this case. Tesco Bank have still not done so, despite it being several months since my 
decision and it saying on a number of occasions it would do this.
Our investigator issued an assessment upholding Mr Rs complaint in full and awarding £400 
in compensation to Mr R. Tesco Bank still didnt respond to our service, so the case was 
passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision upholding in May 2022 and my 
findings were as follows:
Its incredibly disappointing that despite multiple requests from our service, Tesco 
Bank still has not supplied us with any kind of merits business file. I have therefore 
had to base my decision on the information Mr R has provided. Its been nearly three 
months since we confirmed to Tesco Bank this case was within our jurisdiction, so it 
has had ample opportunity to defend the case and provide the evidence its required 
to supply us with when we take on a case.
Ive reviewed the credit card statements Mr R has provided us with to support his 
case. These show that he regularly used his credit card, but not for any large 
purchases. His monthly statements show a balance owing in the region of £300 to 
£650 in the lead up to these payments. Tesco Bank is aware it has a duty to protect 
its customers against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and to undertake due 
diligence on large transactions to guard against money laundering. And I think it 
failed in this when Mr R was investing with P.
The first two payments Mr R sent to P were for £250 and £750 respectively. So I 
cant say these should have been of concern to Tesco Bank, in that it needed to stop 
these payments and check with Mr R before processing them. But the third payment 
he made was for
£4,000. This is nearly 4x any other payment Mr R has made on his credit card, based 
on the statements I hold. And a large amount more than he usually spent over a 
whole month at that time  so this was an unusual transaction for him.
Mr R has given us details about what he was told by P and I think if Tesco Bank had 
called him and provided a general scam warning, it wouldve been enough to unravel 
this scam.
At the time Mr R first invested with P there werent official warnings about it online. I 
also accept he was investing before binary options became regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), so this limits what information Tesco Bank could 
have given him in an intervention call. But P was offering unusually high returns on 
investments and I havent seen evidence to suggest it held a license with the UK 
Gambling Commission or had a license in any other jurisdiction  which it should 
have in 2017. So I consider that Tesco Bank couldve explained to Mr R about how 
these scams generally work, about the Gambling Commission and advised him to go 
away and do more research into P before sending such a large payment. And I think 
he would have, preventing him coming back to Tesco Bank and actioning this 
payment  or sending further funds.
On that basis, I consider Tesco Bank could have prevented Mr P sending £9,000 of 
the £10,000 he sent to P, so it should refund Mr R these payments.
While I dont consider the first set of payments to P ought to have triggered an 
intervention by Tesco Bank, as these payments were made on a credit card, Ive then 
considered whether Mr R has any rights under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974. Ive also considered Mr Rs rights under this Act for his payment to W.Section 75
Mr R used his credit card to directly pay both P and W. And he did so because he 
expected it to use his funds to legitimately trade. However, the evidence strongly 
suggests that P, who later rebranded as W, was not in fact a legitimate investment 
broker. It misled Mr R into believing he was depositing money for genuine 
investments and also that he would be able to withdraw the funds he made from 
these investments. Its most likely Mr R never actually traded, and we know he wasnt 
able to withdraw any funds. And in Ws case, it then stopped responding to him.
Considering the above, I believe Mr R does have a valid claim for misrepresentation. 
He first entered into the contract with P because it led him to believe he would be 
trading and able to make and withdraw funds. And Im satisfied that due to his 
previous experience with P, he then entered into the contract with W. Mr Rs 
testimony is persuasive and based on this account and the nature of this situation, I 
consider P/W did claim that he would be trading in lucrative investments and they 
would allow Mr R to withdraw his funds.
Mr R has limited information from his interactions with either firm. And hes explained 
W used remote access software to assist him in trading, but then also used this to 
delete evidence of the (false) promises it made him. But even without this evidence, 
the situation hes described is corroborated by others bringing cases to our service 
against both P and W, and widely online at this point. There are many negative 
reviews for P/W left by other victims. And together P and W have multiple entries 
about them and another linked firm on the International Organization of Securities 
Commission (IOSCO) register, spanning multiple countries. So I consider P/W was 
not operating a legitimate enterprise and that they actually never intended for Mr R to 
be able to profitably trade and then withdraw these funds. So they did misrepresent 
their position and this induced Mr R into entering into the agreements.
I also consider W breached its contract with Mr R. I find it plausible that he wouldnt 
have entered into an agreement with W without checking he could easily withdraw 
funds, considering what happened with P. And we know that when he then tried to do 
this, he couldnt. So I think its also highly likely W breached the agreed contact, by 
not allowing him to withdraw.
Taking into account the above, I consider Mr R does have a valid claim under 
Section 75 for the remaining deposits he made to P in 2017  £250 and £750. And 
the full amount he sent to W  £4,000. So these should also be refunded by Tesco 
Bank.
Ive then thought about whether Mr R is due any compensation from Tesco Bank. It 
hasnt shown us that it has ever investigated his fraud case properly. And Mr R 
raised this complaint in March 2020, so over two years ago at this point. By not 
engaging with our service or Mr R it has delayed a resolution to the fraud case and 
so closure for Mr R on what hes described as a very difficult time. I consider hes 
been caused avoidable distress and inconvenience by these actions. I cant award 
compensation for complaints handling, as this isnt a regulated activity. But Tesco 
Bank has caused Mr R this distress outside of handling his complaint, by the way it 
had dealt with his fraud case  so Im in agreement with the investigator that £400 
compensation should also be paid.
Mr R responded and said he had nothing further to add. Tesco didnt respond. So the 
case has been returned to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr R had nothing further to add and Tesco didnt respond to the provisional decision, I 
see no reason to change any of the findings I reached in my provisional decision. Or to 
amend the redress which I set out, as Tesco Bank has provided nothing to counter why this 
is appropriate. So for the reasons set out above, in the background section of this decision, 
Im upholding Mr Rs complaint and directing Tesco Bank to refund him all the funds lost to 
this scam, plus to pay him £400 in compensation.
Putting things right
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank should:
Refund all the payments Mr R made to P  a total of £10,000 and to W  £4,000, plus 
any associated transaction fees; and rework the account so that all interest and 
charges caused by those payments are refunded (less any amounts received from P 
or W).
Pay 8% simple interest per year on any repayments Mr R made towards his Tesco 
Bank credit card in relation to the payments he made to P and W;
Pay him £400 compensation
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Rs complaint against Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman