DRN-2535977
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about a claim being incorrectly recorded against his car insurance policy 
with UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill (Churchill). And about the impact this has had 
on him and his wife, Mrs Ws, future car insurance premiums.
Mrs W has been dealing with us on Mr Ws complaint on his behalf. 
 
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs W, a named driver on Mr Ws car insurance policy, had parked the car in 
a supermarket car park. The car was hit by a third party who couldnt be identified. On the 
same day, she reported the accident to the police and Churchill were informed of the 
incident. Mrs W told Churchill that she wasnt making a claim at the time of reporting the 
incident. She was reporting it for information purposes only at that time. She was going to 
wait and see if the police could find the third party whod caused the damage before deciding 
whether to claim or not. 
Churchill told Mrs W that she should get in touch with them again once shed decided 
whether she was going to claim or not. They recorded the incident as a fault claim in error. 
Mrs W only found out about this error when she tried to get car insurance with a different 
provider. Churchill accepted theyd made an error. They corrected the records to show that 
the incident in June 2019 was information only. But Mr W and Mrs W asked for the incident 
to be removed completely. Churchill told them this wasnt possible. So Mr W asked us to 
investigate this complaint.
In his initial view, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Churchill had 
done what hed expected them to do to correct their mistake. He agreed it wasnt possible for 
Churchill to remove the incident from the system. So he felt he couldnt reasonably ask them 
to do any more.
Mrs W disagreed on behalf of Mr W. She said that as a result of the incorrect recording of 
the incident shed had to pay a higher premium with her new insurer, even after itd been 
corrected. She said Mr Ws premiums had gone up too. She also said that shed had to liaise 
between her new insurer and Churchill to correct the records. And that this had caused 
stress and inconvenience. 
Our investigator had another look at the complaint following Mrs Ws comments. He felt that 
both Mrs W and Mr W had been inconvenienced as a result of the initial incorrect recording 
of the incident. He also felt that Churchills agent shouldve explained that the incident would 
be recorded and should be declared in future policies. So he felt that Churchill should pay 
Mr W £50 compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused by its error and level of 
communication.
Churchill didnt agree. They said that nothing in the initial call with their agent wouldve 
indicated that the claim would be closed or cancelled. In fact, they said the agent made it 
clear that Mrs W should consider the information given and come back to them to confirm if 
she needed to claim or not. They say they put Mrs W back in the position she wouldve been 
in if the incident had been recorded correctly by issuing her new insurer a letter explaining 
the claim would now be recorded as information only.
Mrs W didnt agree either. She felt Churchill were responsible for the higher premiums she 
and Mr W were facing. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that its important to note that this complaint is about the impact that Churchills error 
has had on Mr W. So I will be looking at whether Churchill couldve done more to help 
reduce that impact. I also need to consider the responsibilities of both parties.
Under Section 2 of the General Terms and Conditions of Mr Ws policy, it states:
Notification of accidents and losses
You must tell us as soon as reasonably possible about any incident which may lead to a 
claim under this policy.
So the policy documents say that any incident which could result in a claim needs to be 
reported to the insurer. Mrs W did this. 
Churchill said that when the complaint was first raised in February 2020, they apologised for 
recording the claim incorrectly. And they quickly corrected their error. They said they cant be 
held responsible for another insurers interpretation of a notified claim. So they didnt uphold 
the complaint.
Its reasonable for insurers to record details of incidents which have occurred during the 
policy, whether a claim was made or not. If no claim has been made this should show as 
information only. Churchill have provided a screen shot of the records and that confirms 
that the incident has now been recorded correctly as information only. Given the incident 
did happen and Churchill had to record it, Churchill didnt do anything wrong when they said 
they couldnt. 
Mrs W has told us that both her and Mr Ws car insurance premiums have gone up since the 
incident was incorrectly recorded. And that even after Churchill confirmed that the incident 
was information only the premiums with the new insurer were still higher. So Mrs W and 
Mr W feel that Churchill are responsible for their increased costs. Unfortunately, I dont have 
the evidence to support that view. All insurers look at incidents and claims differently. They 
each have their own underwriting criteria and pricing structures. Churchill issued a correction 
letter for Mr W and Mrs W to provide to their new insurer. So Im persuaded that the new 
insurer wouldve had correct information on which to base its premiums. So I cant fairly and 
reasonably blame Churchill for the premium increase. And I dont think they couldve done 
more to reduce the impact as they had to record the incident, and it has now been recorded 
correctly.
I do sympathise with Mr W and his wife that despite not being at fault and not making a claim 
on their insurance, the incident seems to have caused an increase in their premiums. But I 
cant blame Churchill for this. It appears in this case that even if Churchill hadnt made the 
initial recording error, the premiums would still have increased simply because the incident 
happened. 
Ive listened to the initial call when Mrs W reported the incident. I think it mightve been 
clearer if Churchills agent had explained that the incident would be recorded whether Churchill paid for the damage or not. But I dont think it wouldve changed anything that 
happened afterwards. And I dont think the agent said anything that was incorrect or 
misleading. So I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask Churchill to pay any 
compensation for poor communication.
Ill now move on to whether Churchill have caused any trouble and inconvenience for Mr W 
and his wife. And if that couldve been avoided. Mrs W has said that both she and Mr W 
have been inconvenienced as a result of the recording error. She says the incorrect 
recording of the incident caused the quotes produced by their new insurer to show the wrong 
information and took her a lot of time to sort out on the phone. 
Putting things right
Given the time Mr W and his wife had to spend sorting out their insurance after the error, I 
think some compensation for that inconvenience is fair. I think Churchill should pay Mr W 
£50 compensation for the stress and inconvenience it caused by its recording error.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr W £50 for the stress and 
inconvenience caused by its error in recording the June 2019 incident incorrectly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman