DRN-4269706
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service provided by Advantage Insurance Company Limited (AIC) 
following a claim he made on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C took out a car insurance policy with AIC in June 2022. The policy booklet explained in 
the event of a claim one of the options available to AIC is to Pay the Market Value of your 
Car immediately before the loss. 
The definition of Market value included The cost of replacing your Car in the United 
Kingdom at the time the loss or damage occurred with one of the same make, model, age 
and condition. 
In September 2022 Mr Cs car was involved in an incident. AIC accepted Mr Cs claim and 
provided a value of £6,210 as the market value for his car (resulting in a payment of £5,815 
to Mr C after his excess of £395 was applied). Mr C was unhappy with this amount and 
complained to AIC. Mr C also told AIC that hed like to keep the salvage. But AIC sold Mr Cs 
car before this could happen.
  
In response to Mr Cs complaint AIC said the valuation theyd offered had been calculated 
fairly so didnt increase their offer. AIC did acknowledge the upset and inconvenience 
caused by their decision to sell Mr Cs car before he had the option to buy it, and paid Mr C a 
total of £500 compensation in recognition of this.
 
Mr C didnt accept AICs offer to put things right and brought his complaint to this Service for 
investigation. He was unhappy with the market value offered by AIC, and the compensation 
for the way his claim had been handled.
 
The investigator found that the service provided by AIC fell short of what wed expect, but 
thought the calculation of the market value of Mr Cs car for £6,210 was fair, and the 
compensation offered for the poor level of service was also reasonable. The investigator 
didnt recommend AIC do anything in settlement of Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C didnt agree, saying that his car came with factory fitted optional extras included a 
leather interior, and heated seats, which AIC hadnt included in their valuation. Mr C also 
stressed the impact on him because of the way his claim had been handled, including 
months and hours spent on hold on the telephone being bounced between departments 
with no one person wishing to take accountability. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it was passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr 
C but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
 
Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Market valuation
 
We can only ask AIC to do more to put things right if we find that theyve done something 
wrong, and not done enough to put things right. So Ive looked at the trade guides that we 
would usually refer to when dealing with complaints about market valuation. 
Trade guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely (but not actual) selling 
prices. They use advertised prices and auction prices to work out what likely selling prices 
wouldve been. We expect insurers to use trade guides when valuing a car for claims 
purposes. Based on the circumstances of Mr Cs complaint, I think its fair that AIC used the 
trade guides here.
 
Ive seen AIC have provided details of the trade values returned from two trade guides- 
showing values of £6,237 (CAP) and £6,180 (Glasss). Weve checked two other trade 
guides commonly used to find out selling prices of a car of a similar make and model to Mr 
Cs, with a mileage of 36,565. The values returned from these guides show £6,420 (Auto 
Trader), and £3,747 (Cazoo). Weve discounted the last valuation from Cazoo as the 
valuation is materially lower than the others. The average value of the three values returned 
is £6,279.
Mr C was offered the average of the value returned from CAP and Glasss for his car- 
£6,210. Having considered the average value of the three values returned (£6,279), Im 
satisfied the value offered by AIC is in line with what we would expect to see for a car of the 
same make, model, age, and condition as Mr Cs.
Ive considered Mr Cs comments about the value being impacted by leather interior and 
heated seats. But Im not persuaded these make a material difference to the value of Mr Cs 
car. I dont doubt these features wouldve added to the driving experience for Mr C. But Ive 
considered the age of Mr Cs car at the time of the incident. And I think its reasonable that 
AIC havent increased their offer for Mr Cs car based on these additional features. 
From the trade guides Ive looked at, and the values returned for Mr Cs car, I think AICs 
decision on the valuation for Mr Cs car is fair. So I wont be asking them to reconsider this.
 
Disposing of salvage
Its not disputed that AIC couldve done more to provide Mr C with a better level of customer 
service. Mr C was denied the opportunity to buy the salvage when hed told AIC thats what 
he wanted to do. 
When thinking about the impact on Mr C because of AICs decision to sell his car, I think the 
£500 paid to Mr C is broadly in line with what wed recommend in the circumstances. 
Its clear Mr C has suffered trouble and upset because of his dealings with AIC- in particular, 
by not having the opportunity to buy the salvage. Thinking about our approach to 
compensation, and whats happened on this claim, I think £500 reasonably recognises the 
impact on Mr C caused by AICs decision to sell Mr Cs car against what Mr C had 
requested. And the calls with AIC in trying to sort this. I recognise that Mr C is also upset because of the value paid for his car. But this isnt something I think AIC have done wrong 
for the reasons Ive explained. So I wont be asking AIC to pay anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the offer to settle the complaint is fair and reasonable. So I wont be 
directing AIC to do anything more.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman