DRN-1157104
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken 
out in November 2002. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in November 2002. The policy was 
added to Mrs Ms credit card account when she applied for the card by post. The policy cost 
around 73p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following a successful claim, it 
would repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim, for up to twelve months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 
I think BOS made it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Ive 
seen a copy of the application form that Mrs M completed more than 15 years ago, 
and I can see she ticked the section to confirm she wanted PPI before she checked 
and signed the credit agreement. And as the PPI appeared on her monthly credit 
card statements, then I think if the policy had been added to her account without 
either her knowledge or her consent, Mrs M wouldve complained about this in the 
first few months after the account opened in December 2002.
 
BOS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M  she chose to buy it herself on a postal 
application form. So, BOS didnt have to check that the PPI was right for her. But it 
did have to give her enough information about the policy so she could decide for 
herself if she wanted it.
 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  she 
told us she was employed and in good health in November 2002 when the policy was sold  so it wouldve been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking out the cover. 
 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, but these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman