DRN-1744674
 
 
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy that she was overcharged interest and fees by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) when it managed her credit card debt, and that it made an offer of redress but 
later retracted the offer. 
What happened
During a time of financial difficulty, Miss W reached an agreement to settle her outstanding 
credit card debt with Barclays. Miss W owed £7,953.57, but Barclays accepted £6,000 
towards the debt and said it wouldnt pursue the rest. 
In 2019 Barclays sent Miss W a letter in which it said it had reviewed the handling of 
accounts in financial difficulty, and that Miss W was due redress of £914.99. It said this 
would be credited to her account, but wasnt enough to clear the outstanding balance on the 
account. It also offered £75 compensation.
Shortly after, Barclays sent Miss W a further letter saying the redress offer was made in 
error. This is because it hadnt taken into account that partial settlement had been agreed on 
the account. And it said that any refund that would have been due, was less than the debt 
Miss W was released from. So Barclays said no redress was due to Miss W. But it said 
Miss W could still have the £75 compensation for the error.
Miss W complained to Barclays. She said that it had made the offer after it had agreed to 
settle the account for £6,000. So she said she should receive the additional redress. 
Barclays didnt agree. As Miss W was unhappy she brought her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. Initially he said that Barclays didnt need to 
pay the redress to Miss W, but said it should apply this to the account so Miss Ws credit file 
showed the lower amount. He also said the compensation offered was fair.
Barclays didnt agree. It said that this wouldnt make any difference, because the credit file 
already showed the balance as nil. Rather, it would only be an internal accounting 
amendment and wouldnt have any impact on Miss W or her credit file, as the credit file 
shows the account as part-settled with a nil balance. Our investigator said this was fair, and 
again reiterated the £75 compensation already offered was reasonable.
Miss W didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not going to direct 
Barclays to pay any more than the £75 compensation to Miss W. Ill explain why.
When partial settlement of the account was agreed, Miss W owed £7,953.57. Barclays 
accepted £6,000 and agreed not to pursue her for the remaining balance. But its decision to 
do that doesnt mean the debt ceased to exist, it just means Barclays werent pursuing 
Miss W for it. And Barclays says its reported it on Miss Ws credit file as nil since the 
agreement was reached.
As part of a wider review generally, Barclays later said it hadnt dealt with Miss W fairly when 
she was struggling and should have charged her £914.99 less in interest/charges between 
May 2017 and January 2018. In situations where a customer still owes a debt to a business, 
its generally reasonable for any refund to be used to offset what is still owed. This is what 
Barclays original redress letter to Miss W said it would do. But this didnt take into account 
that Miss W had reached an agreement to partially settle the debt, or the amount she was 
released from, so the letter didnt reflect the actual situation.
Keeping in mind the £6,000 partial settlement, the balance Miss W hadnt paid (but wasnt 
being asked for) was £1,953.57. Reducing this amount by £914.99 still wouldnt clear the 
amount Miss W was released from or put the account in credit. So its reasonable for 
Barclays not to pay this amount to Miss W. The position is different where the balance has 
been paid in full, as the redress would have put the account into credit, so it wouldve been 
fair for Miss W to receive that. But this isnt what happened here. 
I accept that Miss W was struggling financially at the time. And this is why Barclays accepted 
£6,000 rather than the full amount that was owing. So it did agree to a partial settlement, 
which isnt something it was required to do.
But I do think that Barclays made a mistake and got Miss Ws hopes up by saying shed be 
receiving a refund. But I also think the £75 compensation its offered fairly compensates 
Miss W for that . As a result, I dont think Barclays need to do any more.
My final decision
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should pay Miss W the £75 compensation its offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman