DRN-3126390
The complaint
Mr L complains about Sainsburys Bank plc (Sainsburys) blocking his account and the delay 
in resolving this. He would like more compensation than Sainsburys has offered.
What happened
The details of this account are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons: -
It must have been frustrating and inconvenient for Mr L to have his account blocked 
and transactions declined.  However, I think Sainsburys acted in Mr Ls best 
interests as there had been suspected fraudulent activity on his account, so I dont 
think it was wrong to take the action that it did.
Its unfortunate that when Mr L called Sainsburys he didnt answer a security 
question properly. Mr L feels he should have been given a further chance to provide 
a correct answer. I think that was ultimately a decision for Sainsburys to make. 
Sainsburys has accepted its service could have been better. I agree particularly in 
relation to the issue of documents Mr L was asked to provide to prove his identity. Mr 
L was told verbally and in writing that Sainsburys hadnt received these documents 
when it had. Not only would this have caused Mr L some understandable distress, 
but it also delayed him getting access to his account.
Sainsburys offered Mr L £75 compensation but agreed to our investigators 
recommendation of £150. I think this is more reasonable given the wrong information 
about the receipt of documents and the inconvenience caused
Mr L said Sainsburys told him it would pay £5000 compensation. I have found no 
reference to that in the phone calls I listened to. I would be surprised had that sum 
been offered particularly as I am not aware Mr L suffered any financial loss. He told 
us he was out of pocket by £3300 as he had to borrow money from relatives to 
make the purchases he wanted to make when his transactions were declined.  I am 
not sure why this is a loss since if he was able to make the purchases, he had the 
benefit of the goods. So, I see no reason to expect Sainsburys to make any payment 
in relation to this. Nor do I feel Mr L has given me any good reason as to why 
Sainsbury should pay a minimum of £1000 as he requested in response to our 
investigators view
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Sainsbury Bank plc should pay Mr L £150 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman