DRN-3350516
Complaint
Miss H is unhappy with what Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has done to put things right in 
relation to her complaint about her overdraft.
Miss H is being assisted in her complaint by her partner. So where Ive referred to Miss H, 
insofar as any arguments made, Im referring to the points that have been made by her 
partner.
Background
One of our adjudicators initially looked at Miss Hs complaint. And she thought that Lloyds 
ought to have realised that Ms Hs overdraft had become unsustainable for her by August 
2019 and it needed to refund the interest, fees and charges it added from this point onwards. 
Lloyds agreed with our adjudicator but Miss H didnt and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his 
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Lloyds has agreed that it ought to have realised that Miss Hs account was in difficulty and it 
shouldnt have added any interest, fees and charges to Miss Hs account from August 2019 
onwards. And it has agreed to refund all the interest, fees and charges added it to Miss Hs 
account from then in order to put things right. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Lloyds has 
agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
In this case, Miss H has been left with an outstanding balance even though the credits shes 
made to her account have been factored in and shes been refunded all of the interest, fees 
and charges applied from August 2019. So while Miss H has been left with an outstanding 
balance to repay and he might be unhappy with this, Lloyds has done what Id normally 
expect it to do here.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Miss H believes that Lloyds should do more. As I understand it, she thinks that Lloyds 
shouldnt have provided her with an overdraft in the first place, or at least increased her limit 
by as much and as it did. Ive carefully thought about what Miss H has said. And Ive started 
by looking at whether it was fair and reasonable to provide Miss H with an overdraft and limit 
increases in the first place. 
Lloyds needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Lloyds needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss H 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically think 
about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its 
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Lloyds says it agreed to Miss Hs initial overdraft application and her limit increases after it 
obtained information on her income and expenditure and carried out a credit search. On the 
other hand, Miss H says she was already struggling. Ive carefully thought about what     
Miss H and Lloyds have said. 
I have to start by saying that Lloyds did ask Miss H about her income and expenditure before 
providing the overdraft and subsequent limit increases. And the information provided did 
suggest that what was being advanced was affordable  when Miss Hs declared 
expenditure was deducted from her income she did appear to have enough to repay the 
funds she was applying for. However, Im mindful that Miss H made a number of applications 
within a short period of time. And in these circumstances, I think that Lloyds should have 
taken a closer look at her ability to repay rather than simply rely on what had been declared 
before agreeing to the increases.
That said, having looked through Miss Hs statements, in the lead up to the overdraft being 
provided and the increases, its noticeable that Miss H received a significant influx of funds in 
January 2018. So while Miss H may have had a low credit score (I note that there was some 
payday lending) and this may have played some part in the assessment, I would have 
expected Miss Hs account conduct and account balances would have played an even larger 
part in any decision to lend as it was a rich source of data. Id also point out that there isnt 
an outright prohibition to lending to a customer whod taken payday loans. In particular, Miss H had operated her account with a surplus for periods. And when the 
discretionary transactions taking place from the account are stripped out, it seems to me that 
Miss H did have sufficient disposable income to be able to repay the overdraft within a 
reasonable period of time, at least when the limit increases were initially provided. 
Ive also seen the point made about Lloyds refusal to provide a loan. But this was a different 
product with a different repayment schedule and therefore subject to different parameters. 
And as Miss H already owed Lloyds a further £5,000.00 on her overdraft by the time she 
applied for the loan, I dont think that Miss H being refused the loan means that she shouldnt 
have been provided in the overdraft in the first place.     
I know that Miss Hs position did worsen after the increase to £5,000.00 was agreed. 
Although, its not immediately apparent to me what caused this as there appears to be a lot 
of discretionary spending and account transfers. But this was after the decision to lend had 
already been taken. And it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for me to use hindsight here, or 
say that Lloyds should have known this would happen. 
I do think that Lloyds was required to monitor Miss Hs use of her overdraft after the limit was 
increased and it has accepted that it ought to have stepped in by the time Miss Hs account 
was due to be reviewed in August 2019. And in the absence of Miss H getting in touch 
before this to ask for help, Im satisfied that it would have been entitled to wait until the next 
review date to carry out its review.
Finally, Ive thought about Miss Hs points regarding a distress and inconvenience award 
from Lloyds. I know Miss H says that Lloyds adding charges exacerbated her difficulty and 
left her in fear of further charges. Im sorry to hear about what Miss H has told us and 
sympathise with the difficult position she found herself in. But I do think its fair to say that 
Miss Hs also bears some responsibility for her position because she did apply for the 
overdraft and subsequent limit increases in circumstances where she was best placed to 
decide whether they were affordable for her. That is not to say that Lloyds didnt have any 
obligations or responsibilities here. 
Clearly Lloyds did have some obligations and responsibilities and Ive already found that it 
ought to have realised that the overdraft had become unsustainable for Miss H in          
August 2019 and that is why it needs to refund the interest and charges added from then. 
Miss H also had the use of funds which given what shes told us it seems as though she 
needed at the time. Miss H has repeatedly said Lloyds decision to provide her with an 
overdraft and subsequent limit increases was unfair because she was in already in difficulty. 
And her account conduct suggests she may have ended up taking out even more payday 
lending, but for being provided with the overdraft and limit increases. So Im not persuaded 
that Lloyds actions, in this case, caused Miss H additional distress and inconvenience at a 
level which would warrant an award here.
Overall and having considered everything, while I do appreciate Miss Hs strength of feeling 
on this matter, I think that what Lloyds has already done to put things right for her is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of her case and it hasnt treated her unfairly. I therefore 
leave it up to her to decide whether she wants to accept Lloyds offer. I realise that this will 
be very disappointing for Miss H. But I hope that shell understand the reasons for my 
decision and shell at least feel that her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Miss H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his 
complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything further. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman