DRN-4329384
The complaint
Mr O complains that the offer One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) made to settle his 
motor insurance claim is too low. 
What happened
Mr O had a fully comprehensive motor insurance policy with One Insurance.
In October 2022, Mr Os vehicle was involved in an accident. He reported the incident to One 
Insurance on 13 November 2022. After considering pictures of the vehicle sent by Mr O, One 
Insurance decided it was a total loss. It then valued the vehicle at £4,739.  Mr O did not 
accept this valuation and he complained to One Insurance. 
One Insurance said Mr O did not reply to its attempts to collect the vehicle, so it thought he 
wanted to keep it. It then paid him £2,069.50, which was the value of the vehicle less excess 
and a 50% salvage deduction. 
Mr O then contacted our service. He didnt accept One Insurances valuation and said an 
assessor should have been sent out to look at his vehicle. He had only been able to contact 
One Insurance through its live chat facility and couldnt speak to anyone on the phone. 
Our investigator got in touch with One Insurance and it offered to increase its valuation to 
£7,499.40. It told us that when it paid the initial settlement back in December 2022, it hadnt 
checked whether there was any outstanding finance. It also offered to pay a further £350 to 
Mr O for any inconvenience he was put to. 
Our investigator considered Mr Os complaint. He thought a fair valuation of Mr Os vehicle 
was £8,820.50. He said One Insurance hadnt made a mistake when it didnt send an 
engineer to assess the vehicle in person. He also said that One Insurance hadnt made a 
mistake when it communicated with Mr O by live chat, rather than by phone. Our investigator 
thought One Insurances offer of £350 for inconvenience was fair. 
In response to our investigators view, Mr O said he accepted the proposed vehicle 
valuation. However, he said he had incurred ongoing storage costs of £30 a day from the 
date of the accident. He said hed paid £5,922 in storage costs up to 31 May 2023. 
Our investigator didnt think it was fair for One Insurance to pay the storage costs. Mr O said 
he accepted our investigators view. However, One Insurance did not substantively reply and 
so the matter has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive upheld Mr Os complaint to the same extent as our investigator. Ill 
explain why. 
Our service doesnt value cars. Instead, we look at whether the insurers offer is fair and in 
line with the policys terms and conditions. 
One Insurance considered Mr Os car to be a total loss. The policys terms and conditions 
say that in such circumstances, One Insurance will make a settlement payment based on the 
cost of replacing the vehicle at the time of the accident, taking into account the make, model, 
age, mileage and circumstances of purchase. 
To work out how much Mr Os car was worth, One Insurance told us that it consulted a 
number of trade valuation guides. However, when Ive looked at the valuations One 
Insurance obtained, I think they were based on the wrong information. I say this because the 
date of the accident appears to have been incorrect. 
The terms and conditions say that One Insurance will settle Mr Os claim based on the cost 
of replacing his vehicle at the time of the accident. So if One Insurances valuations were not 
based on the date of the accident, I think its unlikely theyd reflect cost of replacing the 
vehicle on that date. 
Our investigator consulted four valuation guides. One guide could not provide a valuation at 
all. Another guide could not provide a valuation with the correct mileage, so our investigator 
averaged that valuation with that obtained by One Insurance on the wrong date of loss. The 
valuations obtained by our investigator were:  
Guide 1  £7,990
Guide 2 - £10,309 
Guide 3 - £8,162.50 (average of £8,550 and £7,775). 
I am satisfied that when obtaining the valuations for Guides 1 and 2, our investigator used 
the correct make, model, mileage and date of the accident. He couldnt get a valuation with 
the correct date and mileage for Guide 3. I agree that it was fair for him to take an average of 
the valuation obtained by One Insurance with the correct mileage on the wrong date with the 
valuation with fewer miles on the right date.  
I think the valuations obtained by our investigator are more likely to reflect the cost of 
replacing Mr Os car on the date of the accident. They are based on the correct date of the 
accident. One Insurances offer is not within the range of the valuations obtained by our 
investigator and so I dont think its offer of £7,499.40 is fair. 
With that in mind, Im satisfied that our investigators approach of averaging the figures 
above comes to a fair and reasonable valuation of Mr Os vehicle.  That means Im satisfied 
that it is fair for One Insurance to settle Mr Os claim on the basis that his vehicle was worth 
£8,820.50 on the date of the accident. 
I know Mr O said he thought One Insurance should pay for the daily storage costs he said 
hed had to pay. But our investigator set out some inconsistencies with what Mr O said about 
where his vehicle had been stored. In light of those inconsistencies, I dont think it would be 
fair for One Insurance to cover those costs. 
Mr O was concerned that hed only been able to contact One Insurance through its live chat 
facility when he wanted to speak to someone on the phone. We dont regulate financial 
businesses, so that means I cant tell One Insurance how it should generally communicate 
with its customers. I can check whether One Insurance treated Mr O fairly and reasonably in 
the way it communicated with him. I appreciate Mr O would have preferred to speak to One 
Insurance by phone, but I havent seen anything to suggest he lost out because he had to 
use live chat instead. So, I dont need to tell One Insurance to do anything more here. 
Mr O said he thought One Insurance should have sent an engineer to assess his vehicle. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute between the parties that the vehicle is a total loss. So 
I dont think Mr O lost out because no-one assessed the vehicle in person. 
One Insurance offered to pay £350 to Mr O for the inconvenience arising from his claim. I 
can see that this matter has been ongoing for some time and agree with our investigator that 
a payment of £350 is fair in these circumstances.   Putting things right
To put things right, One Insurance must take the following action: 
a) Settle Mr Os motor insurance claim on the basis that his vehicles market value was  
£8,820.50 on the date of the accident. 
b) It is currently unclear as to whether Mr O wishes to retain the vehicle salvage. 
oIf he does wish to retain the vehicle salvage and there is any remaining 
finance, One Insurance may deduct the amount of the outstanding finance 
from what it will owe and pay the surplus to Mr O;
oIf Mr O does not wish to retain the vehicle salvage, he must allow One 
Insurance to take possession of it. If One Insurance wants to take the 
salvage, it can require this before paying the outstanding balance to Mr O.  If 
there is any remaining finance, One Insurance may deduct the amount of the 
outstanding finance from what it will owe Mr O and pay the surplus to him. 
c) Pay 8% simple interest on the difference between the final settlement and the initial 
settlement payment of £2,069.50. Interest is to be calculated from the date of that 
initial payment of £2,069.50 up to the date Mr O gets the final settlement. 
d) Pay £350 to Mr O for the inconvenience he was put to as set out in the final response 
letter. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require One Insurance to put things right as I have set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman