DRN-1582015
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Bank of Scotland Plc (T/A Halifax) dealt with his request for a 
reasonable adjustment.
What happened 
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
jurisdiction decision dated 18 August 2020  a copy of which is set out here. In my 
provisional decision I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint and why I 
thought the £20 compensation Halifax had already offered to resolve his complaint was fair. I 
said:
What happened
On 5 July 2019 Mr B attended his local Halifax branch to raise concerns that his signature 
may change in the future as a result of a medical condition he suffers from. He asked Halifax 
what support was available. But he said a staff member he spoke with asked him if he held 
another bank card elsewhere he might be able to use.
Mr B was unhappy with comments made by the staff member he dealt with. He said he felt 
he was being dismissed. And he was disappointed by the lack of support he was offered. So 
he complained to Halifax about the way his request for assistance had been dealt with.
When Halifax responded to Mr Bs complaint it told him it thought it had explained what 
support it was able to offer. And it said his medical condition and concerns about his 
signature had been recorded within his profile notes. So, this would allow colleagues in 
branch to assist Mr B and understand why his signature may differ.
Halifax said it assured Mr B that, for the majority of his transactions, hed be able to use Chip 
and PIN. So his signature wouldnt be required. And it also informed him the comments 
made by the staff member he dealt with in branch were in efforts to understand whether he 
had another Chip and PIN enabled card as an alternative backup payment method.
Halifax didnt think it had made an error and it didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. But it
recognised he may have been upset by the comments made by the staff member. And, in 
addition to providing feedback to the individual Mr B dealt with, Halifax offered to pay him 
£20 for any distress and inconvenience he was caused. But Mr B rejected this offer as he felt 
£100 was more appropriate in the circumstances.
Halifax declined to increase its offer to resolve Mr Bs complaint. And, because Mr B thought 
Halifax could have done more to assist him, he referred his complaint to our service.
Our investigator assessed the information Mr B and Halifax had provided. They empathised, 
but thought Halifax had dealt with this complaint, and Mr Bs reasonable adjustment request, 
fairly. So they didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. But Mr B disagreed 
and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered the view our 
investigator reached.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint Halifax offered Mr B £20 to resolve his 
complaint. But this our investigator hasnt addressed that offer in their view. So, Ill comment 
on whether I think that offer was fair and reasonable in this provisional decision.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I can see Mr B has gone to some 
trouble to provide us with some detailed submissions. I want to assure him that I have read 
everything he has sent us. I hope he will understand if I dont address every comment hes 
made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider is key to the complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B experienced here. He raised concerns his
signature may differ due a medical condition. And he asked Halifax to make reasonable 
adjustments to assist him in transacting on his account.
Its important to explain that a business need only accommodate an adjustment if its a 
reasonable request. And a reasonable adjustment must not breach security measures 
because banks must keep customer information secure. So, with that in mind, Ive carefully 
considered whether Halifax could have done anymore to assist Mr B.
Its clear Halifax is aware Mr Bs signature may vary and the reason why. It recalled its 
exchange with him in July 2019 when he attended his branch to request its support. And it 
explained that it updated his notes to reflect the nature of Mr Bs concerns. Halifax also 
stated an ongoing support icon was used to flag that Mr B may require assistance from 
staff members dealing with him in branch.
I can see that Halifax informed Mr B that, for transactions within the bank, staff would be 
able to access his customer profile notes and see why his signature might be different. It 
said this will ensure staff are able to approach any variances in signature sensitively with Mr 
B in branch if needed.
Mr B has raised concerns that, if a note on his records alerting staff that his signature may 
differ, this may leave him vulnerable to fraud. But I can see hes been told by Halifax that 
staff may ask him to provide different forms of ID to facilitate cash withdrawals or other 
requests that may ordinarily require a signature. I think this demonstrates that Halifax is 
taking steps to ensure the security of Mr Bs account isnt compromised.
I understand that Mr B is concerned that transactions originating outside the bank may be 
declined due to signature differences. But I can see Halifax explained that a signature would 
only typically be required in branch as Chip and PIN is the usual method of verification that is 
used by businesses or third parties.
Ive seen Halifaxs policy, which outlines the process it has in place for customers with 
vulnerabilities to ensure it is able to provide them with appropriate help and assistance. I can 
see that the problem Mr B is concerned about is captured by this policy. And, having seen 
evidence of the actions Halifax took following Mr Bs visit, Im satisfied it adhered to its 
policy.
I understand that Mr B thinks Halifax should have a policy in place thats specific to his 
illness. But, as Ive already mentioned, Mr Bs medical condition is covered by the policy Halifax has in place. And, as were not the regulator of banks, we arent able to ask Halifax 
to change its internal policies or adopt the changes Mr B would like here.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint Im persuaded Halifax listened to Mr Bs 
concerns and offered him the assistance it was able to. It follows that Im not persuaded 
theres anything more Halifax could have done to assist Mr B.
Ill turn now to the question Mr B was asked about whether he held a bank card with another 
bank. Halifax said this question was asked after Mr B requested it provide him with a card 
without the signature strip. It appears he thought such a card may remove the requirement 
for a signature. And it was at this point he was asked if he held another Chip and PIN card 
as a backup. I understand that this caused offence to Mr B. But I think the question Halifax 
asked was valid. So, I cant fairly conclude it acted unfairly.
I can see Halifax has recognised the comments made may have upset Mr B. Its provided 
feedback to the staff member in question, which I think is helpful. And its offered to pay Mr B 
£20 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
I can see Mr B feels the gesture made by Halifax doesnt adequately reflect his
inconvenience and experience. So, Ive carefully considered what both Mr B and Halifax 
have said in thinking about whether the offer here is fair and reasonable.
Our service isnt here to punish businesses. And, while Mr B will disagree with me, Im 
persuaded the offer Halifax made is fair in all the circumstances. It follows that I think Halifax 
should pay Mr B the £20 it offered to resolve this complaint.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional 
information they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our 
service's last word on the matter.
Both Mr B and Halifax responded to say he accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of the fact neither party has presented any new evidence or 
arguments for my consideration, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in 
my provisional decision. I still dont think Mr B's complaint should be upheld and I remain 
persuaded that the £20 Halifax offered to resolve this complaint is fair and reasonable. 
Halifax should therefore pay that sum to Mr B if it hasnt already.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Im aware that Bank of Scotland Plc (T/A 
Halifax) has made an offer to pay Mr B £20 compensation. I conclude that such an offer is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that Bank of Scotland Plc (T/A 
Halifax) should pay Mr B the £20 it offered to resolve this complaint if it hasnt already done 
so.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman