DRN-3572173
The complaint
Miss S complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund money she lost to an investment scam.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision:
In June 2021, Miss S connected with an individual Z on social media. A short while 
after they started communicating, Miss S was persuaded by Z to invest in what she 
thought was forex trading. On 8 June, Miss S made a faster payment of £2,500 from 
her TSB account to an account in the name of a company C. 
Between 10 June and 17 August, Miss S made further payments totalling £133,400 
to C. These payments were made using money Miss S received from 14 individuals 
who shes said are friends and family. One day, when she couldnt access her 
trading account with C, Miss S questioned Z about this and he blocked her. 
Realising that shed been scammed, Miss S reported the matter to TSB. Unhappy 
with the lack of response, she contacted our service. 
We notified TSB of Miss Ss complaint and it wrote to her and apologised for the 
delay in investigating her fraud claim. TSB also paid £250 compensation in 
recognition of this. Subsequently, TSB told us it was willing to refund Miss S the initial 
transaction of £2,500 under its Fraud Refund Guarantee. It said it wasnt 
responsible for refunding the remaining funds as they werent Miss Ss personal loss. 
Miss S rejected TSBs offer. Our investigator explained that TSB wasnt liable to 
reimburse her for losses suffered by others. So, even if he had concluded that TSB 
failed in its duty of care, the loss Miss S had suffered personally was only the initial 
payment. The investigator noted that TSBs offer didnt take into account a credit 
Miss S said shed received from C, which he explained would normally be deducted 
from any refund. 
Miss S said that she understood the point the investigator had made, but she didnt 
agree with it and wanted an ombudsmans decision. She said that once the money 
was transferred into her account by her friends and family, it was hers. Miss S also 
said she believed TSB had failed to protect her, and that she was being chased by 
those who had transferred the money to her. So, it ultimately became her loss. She 
explained that shes had to take out a loan to pay back some of the money and that 
this situation has had a serious impact on her personal circumstances.  
The complaint was passed to me and I contacted TSB to check whether its offer was 
still available to Miss S were it to be accepted now. TSB said that Miss S had 
originally rejected the offer but had since contacted its fraud team and £2,500 was 
paid into her bank account on 2 August 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure both parties that although Ive only summarised the background and 
arguments, Ive read and considered everything thats been submitted. Having done so, 
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Miss S. As a 
starting position, banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without 
undue delay. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank 
has a duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is 
reasonably possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which 
ought reasonably to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it 
might be liable for the losses incurred by its customer as a result.
From the evidence Ive seen, its not actually been proven that C was operating 
fraudulently, and that Miss B has been a victim of a scam rather than losing money to 
a high-risk investment. As TSB offered a partial refund, Ive proceeded on the basis 
that Miss S has been a victim of a scam. 
As TSBs liability for acts and omissions only extends to its customers and not to 
others, I consider that I only need to make a finding on whether it failed in its duty of 
care if Im satisfied that the loss suffered here is Miss Ss. 
Ive thought carefully about Miss Ss reasons for why she believes that all the money 
transferred to C is her personal loss. I can understand why it may feel like that to her 
if friends and family are expecting the money to be returned. But it remains the case 
that, barring the initial payment which TSB has already refunded, Miss S invested 
money for other people. As such, it was they who lost their money in the investment 
opportunity. (I should add at this point that I havent seen anything on file that shows 
C was operating a scam).
Miss S submits that TSB hasnt complied with the terms of its Fraud Refund 
Guarantee which states, Put simply, it means that if youre clearly an innocent victim 
of fraud on your TSB account, we will refund the money you lost from your account. 
She argues that this makes no reference to personal loss. I understand the point 
Miss S is trying to make, but I take that statement to mean money that is lost from a 
customers account that belongs to them. Based on Miss Ss submissions and her 
correspondence with the investigator (including a phone call which Ive listened to), 
Im not persuaded that the remainder of the money Miss S lost belonged to her.
Even if I were to accept that TSBs guarantee is open to interpretation, I must decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint before me. I cant 
fairly or reasonably hold TSB liable for losses suffered by others who invested money 
by transferring it to Miss S. 
I fully acknowledge that theres a lot of money involved here. And Im sorry to hear about 
how this situation has affected Miss S. I know that she feels very strongly about this matter 
and is likely to disagree with my findings. But for the above reasons, I wont be telling TSB to 
do anything further as in the circumstances I conclude that the refund of £2,500 fairly 
resolves this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that TSB Bank plc has already fairly resolved this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman