DRN-4447840
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H have complained about Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays trading as 
Barclays Wealth Management). They said they wanted to invest in an exchange traded fund 
(ETF). They said the investment Barclays bought for them was an exchange traded 
commodity (ETC). They said this investment was not what they wanted, was unsuited to 
their risk appetite at that time and was overly complex. 
Mrs H and Mr H said Barclays bought the wrong investment and because of this they have 
incurred significant investment losses. They would like to be compensated for this. 
Mrs H and Mr H have been represented by a third party throughout their complaint. 
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H invested around £728,530 in ETFS natural gas in 2009. By 2022, the value 
of these units dropped in value by around 95%. They said they have suffered significant 
investment losses.
Mrs H and Mr H said the investment they made is now worth a fraction of the book cost and 
has not tracked the natural gas spot price to any reasonable extent, something that they 
were looking for their investment to do. They said the way the fund operates is overly 
complex and the investment is incorrect for their risk profile. They said Barclays failed in its 
duty of care to explain the product or inform them of the risks associated before they bought 
into it. 
Barclays said in response that it could see Mrs H and Mr H had made four purchases 
between 9 March 2009 and 11 June 2009 into ETFS natural gas which is now known as 
Wisdom Tree natural gas. It said their total investment was for around £728,530. 
Barclays said Mrs H and Mr H invested in this fund on an execution only basis and no advice 
was given to them. It said this means it was up to them to take responsibility for the trades 
they made. It said it was not obliged to assess suitability as it didnt give any advice to them.
Barclays said it was clear at the time from their activity that they had a strategy to invest in 
commodity funds and that most did reasonably well. It said it can understand why the loss 
incurred has been frustrating for them. Barclays reiterated that it was not responsible for the 
loss incurred and it carried out Mrs H and Mr Hs instructions on an execution only basis. 
Mrs H and Mr H were not happy with Barclays response and referred their complaint to our 
service.  
An investigator looked into Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint. He said he didnt think Barclays 
needed to take any action. He said hed seen nothing to suggest Barclays advised them to 
invest in ETFS natural gas or that Barclays were obliged to check its suitability. He said 
Barclays said its service was execution only, so no advice was provided. He added that 
Barclays said its process for execution only was the same in 2009 as it is now, that is that 
Mrs H and Mr H would have needed to provide clear and unambiguous instructions and no 
advice is provided. He said Barclays said Mrs H and Mr H would have needed to tell them 
what to buy, rather than Barclays source the investment for them based on what they were 
looking for and their need.
Mrs H and Mr H through their representatives were not in agreement with the investigators 
first view. Their representatives provided a detailed response. I have summarised what I 
think their key arguments were at this stage, namely:
Mrs H and Mr H were relying on the expertise of Barclays to invest their monies into 
an appropriate natural gas ETF product and not an ETC product.
Barclays failed to follow the investment instructions given to them and bought the 
wrong product.
Barclays failed to comply with its obligations under the regulator The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules at that time. They referred to COBS10 and the 
version that was in place at the time of the purchases. They said Barclays didnt 
assess appropriateness of the product as it was obliged to.
They said if Barclays had complied with its obligations under COBS10 then Mrs H 
and Mr H would have been alerted to the fact the product was an ETC and not an 
ETF as they had requested. If they had known this, then they would not have 
invested in that product. 
The investigator then sent out a second view in October 2023. He had gathered further 
information from both parties and responded to Mrs H and Mr Hs representatives 
comments. The new information and key findings from this are:
He went back to Mrs H and Mr H and asked for more information about the sort of 
investment they think they wanted to invest in at the time. In response they said they 
were looking for modest risk investments. Mrs H and Mr H said they wanted to hold 
their assets  cash, bonds, and commodities, rather than stock. They said they 
wanted to invest in ETFs to spread risk.
Mrs H and Mr H reiterated that if Barclays had warned them an ETC was 
inappropriate, it was likely they wouldnt have invested their money into it. 
They said there seemed very few ETFs which invested in natural gas, but they more 
likely would have invested in something similar like an energy ETF. They said they 
wouldnt have made significant losses if they had done so.
He asked Barclays for clarification on the relationship between it and Mrs H and Mr H 
at the time. He said he could see they were high net worth, had a private banker and 
held regular meetings. He sought to clarify what Barclays role was here. 
Barclays said from its records Mrs H and Mr H made a mixture of advised 
investments, where it had made one-off advice, but also made trades on an 
execution only basis, like this one.
It said because there was a mix of advised and execution only trades, it needed to 
discuss risk profiles and objectives with Mrs H and Mr H.
Barclays said it could only trade on investments available on its platform. So, as was 
the case here, if a client wanted to invest in a natural gas fund, then it would present options and it would be down to its client to choose one. Then would carry out their 
instructions on an execution only basis. 
The investigator made several findings from the additional information that he 
gathered. He said it wasnt clear how the ETC came about. He didnt feel he had 
seen enough evidence to suggest Barclays played an integral role in selecting the 
ETC. 
He concluded on balance, that it would have provided information on the investment 
and given it to Mrs H and Mr H, for them to make an informed decision. 
He didnt think Barclays would have checked how appropriate the investment was, as 
was their regulatory obligation. But he said, even if it had sone so, the likelihood was 
that the investment would have been appropriate for Mrs H and Mr H anyway.
He said Mrs H and Mr H say they were after a UCITS compliant ETF and one that 
didnt invest in shares. But he said this type of investment most likely didnt exist. 
He said the energy ETF suggested by them, invests in shares so wouldnt have met 
their stated objectives at that time. He also made the point that it was more likely 
than not the other ETF investments they held at the same time were ETCs.
He concluded that it was unlikely Mrs H and Mr H would have invested in a different 
fund to the one they did at the time. He didnt uphold their complaint. 
Mrs H and Mr Hs representatives responded to the investigators second view. They made 
the following points:
Mrs H and Mr H have said consistently all along that they were not presented with 
any natural gas investment options by Barclays. They asked their private banker to 
invest in a natural gas ETF and relied on her to select the appropriate product. She 
picked the ETC and did this without presenting any options to them.
If Barclays had provided a prospectus detailing the fund to Mrs H and Mr H, then its 
reasonable to assume that Barclays would have read the information themselves and 
would have used the correct terminology when referring to the product. They then 
clearly stated that Mrs H and Mr H did not receive any documentation or prospectus 
about the investment. 
Mrs H and Mr H were not experienced investors in commodities when the natural gas 
ETC was purchased. The ETC invested in was also very complex and high risk. 
Whilst Barclays were not required to advise on risk, they were nevertheless obliged 
to assess on appropriateness. It is unlikely Mrs H and Mr H would have invested if 
they genuinely understood the high-risk nature of the product. 
Barclays knew what Mrs H and Mr Hs investment aims were with regards to 
commodities and if no product met those goals existed, then Barclays should have 
informed them of this. Barclays should not have gone ahead with purchasing units in 
an ETC, which was not appropriate for them.
The other commodity investments purchased by Barclays on Mrs H and Mr Hs 
behalf were also ETCs. Barclays did not assess the appropriateness of any of the 
investments. But just because Mrs H and Mr H didnt make a loss on the other investments, does not mean that Barclays are not liable for the losses on the natural 
gas ETC investment. 
Barclays failed repeatedly to comply with their regulatory obligations. They failed to 
assess the appropriateness of the investment. Mrs H and Mr H did not have the 
experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved. The relevant individuals at 
Barclays also failed to understand the true nature of the ETC as well. If Barclays had 
assessed the appropriateness of the investment, and explained the risks involved 
then Mrs H and Mr H wouldnt have agreed to invest in it. 
So as Mrs H and Mr H and their representatives do not agree with the investigators findings, 
their complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to look into.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays has said to our service that Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint is within our jurisdiction to 
consider. It has given its permission for our service to investigate their concerns. Therefore, I 
have proceeded to look at the merits of Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint.
I have carefully read all that Mrs H and Mr H and their representatives have said and 
submitted to our service. Due to the length of the submissions and the number of points 
made within them, I wont be responding to every point Mrs H and Mr Hs representatives 
have raised. Instead, I have focussed on what I think is relevant to their complaint and the 
outcome.
Ive looked at the complaint afresh and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as 
our investigator. I will explain my reasons. 
What did Barclays do when it bought units for Mrs H and Mr H in ETFS natural gas?
There isnt a dispute between the parties, about whether Barclays gave advice to Mrs H and 
Mr H when it purchased units in ETFS natural gas in 2009 for them. Both say it didnt. But 
their recollections do differ with regards to what happened. Barclays has said to our service 
that it carried out the trades on an execution only basis and would have needed to be given 
clear and unambiguous instructions from Mrs H and Mr H about what they wanted to invest 
in. Mrs H and Mr H on the other hand said they would have told Barclays they wanted to 
invest in a natural gas ETF as part of their strategy to diversify their portfolio. They said they 
wouldve had that conversation, and Barclays would have sourced the investment for them. 
There is a dispute here between the parties about this, so I have looked into it.
Our investigator asked Barclays about its relationship with Mrs H and Mr H in 2009, recently 
to gauge a better understanding as to how it would usually carry out trades on their behalf. 
After all Mrs H and Mr H had a personal banker they could call, were designated high net 
worth by Barclays and held regular meetings with it. Barclays said that it carried out a series 
of execution only trades and gave one off advice when called upon or when it needed to. It 
said it offered both and tailored its service to suit the needs of Mrs H and Mr H. 
Mrs H and Mr H have said they were not presented with any natural gas investment options 
by Barclays, and that what happened was their private banker selected the investment for 
them. She picked the ETC and did this without presenting any alternatives.I cant be sure what happened here, but I can see that it has been agreed between the 
parties that Barclays didnt give advice to Mrs H and Mr H. This suggests to me, on balance 
that Mrs H and Mr H gave an instruction to Barclays to find a natural gas ETF for them to 
invest in. I dont think, if Barclays were carrying out the trade on an execution only basis, 
something both parties agree they were doing, that it would go on and select an investment 
and present it to Mrs H and Mr H. Rather, I think Barclays more likely than not would have 
either presented options to Mrs H and Mr H for them to choose the investment they wanted 
to invest in, as Barclays has suggested could have happened here. Or there simply werent 
the choices available at that time, with Mrs H and Mr H having one option available on 
Barclays trading platform and their choice was to either invest in ETFS Natural Gas or not. 
There has been a discussion between the representatives of Mrs H and Mr H and our 
service about this and the alternative investments that they would have looked at. But Ive 
not been provided with information from either party that suggests to me there was an 
alternative investment at that time that met what Mrs H and Mr H were asking for. So, even if 
I were to conclude Barclays should have done more to present different options or help Mrs 
H and Mr H to find the investment they were looking for, I am not persuaded there was a 
product that it could have pointed them towards such that they are now saying they were 
after.  
When I consider both parties recollections and read through the documentation available 
including a call note provided by Barclays from that time, I think on balance either Barclays 
presented options to Mrs H and Mr H or it presented one option to them, and they made a 
choice, with the trade being conducted on an execution only basis. There is a distinction 
here I think between either of these scenarios and Barclays choosing an investment and 
presenting it. On balance, I think Mrs H and Mr H instructed Barclays to invest in ETFS 
natural gas rather than Barclays advising them to do so, or Barclays doing it on their own 
accord. 
I would have expected Barclays to have provided Mrs H and Mr H with key information about 
ETFS Natural Gas at the time in either of the scenarios I have given above, so they could 
make an informed decision. I think on balance, as it was an execution only trade, this would 
have happened, or they would have been notified as to where to find the information. Of 
course, it maybe that Barclays didnt do this, but I havent seen enough from what has been 
provided by the parties, that I can safely conclude this was the case. As I have concluded 
this was an execution only trade, there was also, I think, some responsibility on Mrs H and 
Mr H to ensure they understood how the investment worked, especially considering the size 
of the investment they made. 
So, I think on balance, Barclays carried out Mrs H and Mr Hs instructions about an 
investment they chose on an execution only basis, after they were given information about it. 
Mrs H and Mr Hs representatives have made a few points about Barclays understanding of 
how the product worked in practice. They have made the point that they cant see how 
Barclays would have provided information on an investment, that it didnt understand itself. I 
havent seen enough from what I have read that would indicate to me that Barclays didnt 
understand how the investment worked, other than the observation from its representatives 
that Barclays staff used the term ETF rather than ETC to describe it. I dont think this 
observation on its own about terminology used, is enough evidence for me to conclude 
Barclays didnt know how the investment that it had listed on its trading platform wouldve 
worked. 
Barclays responsibility here, as it was an execution only trade, was to provide information 
that was clear and not misleading and ensure Mrs H and Mr H were able to make an informed decision. It was for Mrs H and Mr H to then ensure they understood the risks and 
were comfortable with them or ask for more information if they wanted to. 
Was ETFS natural gas appropriate for Mrs H and Mr H?
Mrs H and Mr Hs representatives have said ETFS natural gas, was not an appropriate 
investment for them. They have referenced FCA regulations and COBS10 from the 
handbook. They said Barclays should have assessed whether the investment was 
appropriate for Mrs H and Mr H. They said if it had done this, it would have seen that the 
investment was complex and an ETC. They said if Mrs H and Mr H had been alerted to how 
inappropriate the investment was, it would have put them off from investing in it.     
I acknowledge the point Mrs H and Mr Hs representatives are making here and agree that 
Barclays ought to have considered the appropriateness of the investment under their wider 
obligations to them if it didnt do so. But in any case, even if it hadnt, I dont think it would 
have made a difference. This is because on balance, I think Barclays would have assessed 
the investment to be appropriate for Mrs H and Mr H. 
I can see that Mrs H and Mr H had already invested in similar investments and held several 
exchange traded investments within their portfolio. I think on balance, Mrs H and Mr H would 
have been considered to have enough experience and knowledge to understand the risks 
involved. So, if Barclays had carried out an assessment on this investment, I think on 
balance it would have deemed it appropriate for them. 
In conclusion, I think on balance, that Mrs H and Mr H gave Barclays an instruction that they 
wished to invest in a natural gas ETF. Barclays then either gave options or gave an option 
and Mrs H and Mr H selected it, on an execution only basis. Im not persuaded Barclays 
misled or otherwise gave Mrs H and Mr H incorrect information about the investments risks 
or how it worked. On balance I think more likely than not it provided them with information to 
satisfy themselves about the product, and whether they wanted to invest in it. As Ive found 
that the decision to invest rested with Mrs H and Mr H, I dont think it would be fair and 
reasonable to hold Barclays responsible for any losses Mrs H and Mr H say theyve suffered 
as a result of making the investment. 
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs H and Mr H as well as their 
representatives, and I acknowledge the amount of time and effort they have spent in 
providing their submissions. But based on everything I have read and the findings I have 
given, I dont uphold their complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 January 2024.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman