DRN-2971760
The complaint
Mr B says that the Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) mobile phone app was 
misleading. As a result, Mr B paid less than he needed to and incurred late payment fees.  
Mr B wants Virgin Money to remove the negative information from his credit file.
 
What happened
In early January 2021, Mr B asked Virgin Money for more time pay his credit card bill. Virgin 
Money told him that it could let his account go into arrears for 30 days. 
Although Mr B later made payments to Virgin Money, he didnt bring the arrears up to date. 
Virgin Money applied late payment charges and reported this information on his credit file.
Mr B complained to Virgin Money as hed paid what the app told him was his minimum 
payment. 
Virgin Money didnt agree that it had made a mistake. It explained that the app will only show 
the minimum payment as some of the required payments needed to be made before the 
minimum payment was due. Virgin Money said that Mr Bs credit statements and the letters it 
had sent to him explained what he needed to pay.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that Virgin Money 
explained to Mr B that his credit file would be impacted when his account went into arrears. 
The investigator said that as Mr B didnt make the full payment by the required dates, the 
payments were made late. 
Mr B is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He says he didnt pay late and that 
he paid the amount stated on the app. Mr B says he doesnt look at the paper statements. 
He thinks the app should supply the correct information.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the recording of a call between Mr B and Virgin Money in January 2021. He 
explains the difficulties hes faced as a result of being on furlough. Virgin Moneys 
representative says that hes not eligible for a further payment holiday. But that Mr B can 
allow his account to go in to arrears which would delay payment by 30 days. Virgin Money 
does explain to Mr B that this may be reflected on his credit file and he acknowledges this. It 
also explains that Mr Bs credit card will be blocked.
I appreciate that Mr B says he didnt look at his credit card statements, but Im satisfied that 
Virgin Money sent them to him together with letters telling him that hed missed credit card 
payments. The first bank statement that Virgin Money sent to Mr B after it had agreed that 
his account could go in to arrears says that Mr B must make an immediate payment and 
then the remaining payment by early February 2021. Later credit card statements contain 
similar information.
The letters that Virgin Money sent to Mr B also explain that his account is in arrears and give 
him various options to repay what he owes. And when Mr B spoke to Virgin Money in 
January 2021, the representative discussed him paying the arrears plus the minimum 
payment to unblock his credit card. Overall, I cant reasonably find that Virgin Money failed to 
make Mr B aware of what he needed to pay.
Mr B either didnt make a payment - as happened in early January 2021  or didnt then 
bring the arrears up to date. Virgin Money had already made Mr B aware that his credit file 
would be affected if his account was in arrears. I cant find that Virgin Money was wrong to 
report the late payments to the credit reference agencies. 
Although Virgin Money has refunded two of the late payment charges, I dont consider this 
means it must amend his credit file as the negative markers are an accurate reflection of 
how Mr B has managed his account. Im sorry that this is likely to come as a disappointment.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman