DRN-2273519
The complaint
Ms W complains The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited (Shepherds Friendly) unfairly 
refused her income protection claim when she was too unwell to work.
What happened
Ms W took out an income protection policy with Shepherds Friendly in December 2019. The 
policy was designed to pay a monthly benefit for up to two years, in the event that Ms W was 
unable to work due to illness or injury. 
In March 2020, Ms W contacted Shepherds Friendly about making a claim. She said shed 
been unable to work for five weeks due to anxiety. 
The terms of Ms Ws policy state the following about making an incapacity claim. 
You must provide us with evidence as we require of any complete or partial loss of 
income from your employment or self-employment you suffer. You must also provide 
any information and documentation we reasonably require in connection with your 
employment and you must provide us with any consent or authorisation as may be 
necessary for us to make enquiries of, and consult with your employer. 
If you refuse to comply with our reasonable requests, or do not provide accurate and 
complete information, we may not be able to proceed with your claim. 
Shepherds Friendly said it was unable to assess the claim, as it hadnt received sufficient 
evidence that Ms W was in paid employment before she became too unwell to work. 
Ms W complained. Shepherds Friendly responded in May 2020 and said Ms W hadnt 
provided information itd asked for, including evidence of her employment with two 
workplaces. It said because of this, it had been unable to verify Ms Ws employment status. 
And it maintained it couldnt accept the claim. 
Unhappy with the response from Shepherds Friendly, Ms W brought her complaint to this 
service. An investigator here looked into what had happened, and said he didnt think 
Shepherds Friendly had acted unfairly. 
Ms W disagreed with the investigators view, and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
And Shepherds Friendly made no comments on the view. 
As Ms W disagreed, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
Shepherds Friendly later advised Ms W had cancelled her policy and made a successful 
chargeback via her bank, to recoup the premiums she paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say Shepherds Friendly has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms of Ms Ws policy require her to provide Shepherds Friendly with evidence of her 
employment in relation to her loss of income. So I dont think it was unreasonable for it to 
ask for documentation evidencing the jobs Ms W had in early 2020. And without this 
evidence, I accept Shepherds Friendly was unable to assess her claim. 
When bringing her complaint to this service, Ms W said she didnt think she had been told 
about the evidence of employment Shepherds Friendly needed. And said she wasnt given 
enough time to provide it. 
Ive seen evidence of a letter Shepherds Friendly sent to Ms W after she first made her 
claim. And this letter requested information including wage slips from the prior two months, 
the most recent P60, and if self-employed, evidence of self-assessments and payments 
made to HMRC.
Shepherds Friendly also provided emails between it and Ms W later in March 2020, after Ms 
W had explained she had recently changed employment. These emails show Shepherds 
Friendly requested more specific evidence, including as a P45 from the employment Ms W 
left in February 2020. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Shepherds Friendly asked Ms W for 
documentation about her recent employment prior to her claim. And that the requests it 
made were clear. Ive also not found it set Ms W any unreasonable deadlines for providing 
this evidence. Shepherds Friendly also said it was willing to review Ms Ws claim again, if 
she provided the additional evidence shed been asked for. But this wasnt provided. 
Im aware Ms W has since cancelled her policy and recouped the premiums she paid. This 
isnt the focus of my decision, so I wont make a finding on that point. However, Ms W should 
be aware that this would have implications if she were to ask Shepherds Friendly to review 
her claim again.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman