DRN-3675717
The complaint
Mr G complains that a used car he got with a hire purchase agreement (HPA) from Marsh 
Finance Ltd was of unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
Mr G acquired this car near the end of August 2021. He had problems not long after - an 
engine management light (EML) illuminated and he asked a friend who is a mechanic to 
check the car. Diagnostics suggested there were faults present and Mr G contacted Marsh 
on 7 September 2021 to complain. Marsh asked for more evidence and Mr G thought a 
report would be costly so Marsh arranged for an independent expert to inspect at the start of 
October. 
The expert found nothing unusual. He thought the fault codes Mr G reported were probably 
caused by a low battery - which might be due to the car not being used for a time. Marsh 
didnt uphold the complaint and Mr G remained unhappy. He contacted Marsh shortly after to 
say he was going to get his own report. He supplied a vehicle health check (VHC) from a 
main dealer (that Ill call D) for this brand, a week or so later. D identified issues with the 
turbo and repairs needed were estimated to cost nearly £1,200. Marsh considered this was a 
new fault - and didnt change its final response - so Mr G referred the matter to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the evidence. She acknowledged the independent 
expert didnt find any faults. But she didnt think hed done enough to try and replicate the 
intermittent issues Mr G reported  as he didnt take the car for a test drive. She was 
satisfied that D confirmed the car had a significant turbo issue causing loss of power. She 
thought that sounded similar to problems Mr G reported soon after supply. She wasnt 
persuaded that this was likely to be a new fault. She was satisfied it was probably present 
when the car was supplied and the car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
The investigator recommended Mr G should be allowed to reject the car and have his 
deposit refunded plus the cost of the VHC (on proof of payment). She noted that Mr G had 
covered around 2,500 miles by the time of the VHC, but she thought his use of the car was 
likely impaired  given the reduced power. She considered Marsh should refund of 10% of 
any monthly payments made to reflect that - and pay interest on refunds as well as removing 
any adverse information recorded about the finance from Mr Gs credit file. 
Marsh disagreed. It says (in summary) Mr G was unable to evidence the faults he reported 
originally - and the expert didnt find any evidence of these either. Marsh thinks Mr G only 
raised concerns about a turbo fault after his complaint was rejected and hed driven the car 
about 2,500 miles by that point. It considers this would be classed as normal use. And Mr G 
couldnt have driven the car as far as he did if the turbo had failed. Marsh is concerned that 
Mr G has continued to drive the car with issues present. It doesnt accept the car had faults 
present or developing at the point of supply and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter.
Having considered the available evidence, I was minded to uphold the complaint but I 
thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. I issued a provisional 
decision last month and Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. This forms 
part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr G brings his complaint to our service because he acquired this car with a HPA. And Im 
satisfied that Marsh, as the vehicles supplier, is responsible for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). 
Satisfactory quality 
The quality of goods includes their general state and condition as well as other things like 
fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and 
durability. What amounts to satisfactory quality will vary depending on individual 
circumstances - goods need to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory. 
I think its reasonable to take a vehicles age, cost and mileage at the point of supply into 
account in this situation. I can see this car was around four years old, cost over £5,000 and 
had around 82,000 miles on the clock when Mr G got it. As such, I think most people would 
accept that it was likely to have some parts that were worn and would need replacing or 
repairing sooner or later  which is reflected in the lower price paid compared to the price of 
a brand new vehicle. That doesnt mean however that Mr G didnt have a reasonable 
expectation that the car would be reasonably durable  taking its age, cost and mileage into 
account. 
What (if anything) went wrong with the car 
Based on the current evidence, Im satisfied that Mr G had concerns about the quality of the 
car within a very short time. He contacted Marsh to complain on 7 September. And 
information from Marsh indicates that several issues were reported at that time - including a 
fuel warning light and an engine malfunction service now light had illuminated, the 
start/stop system wasnt working properly, there was a fault with the door module and oil was 
leaking from the sprocket cover and gearbox. 
Marsh asked for evidence of faults present and I dont think that was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. It looks as if Mr G wanted to reject the car (Marsh says he asked to do so on 
14 September) and, under the CRA, its for a consumer who wants to reject goods within 30 
days (the short term right to reject) to provide evidence of unsatisfactory quality. 
It looks as if Mr G was concerned about the cost of obtaining expert evidence and Marsh 
arranged for an independent expert to check the car in October 2021. I think that was fair. I 
have considered the experts report carefully. I accept he found no faults present. And I can 
see why Marsh rejected the complaint  based on the experts conclusions. Im satisfied 
however that Mr G took the car for a detailed VHC at a main dealership not long after the 
experts inspection. And he supplied evidence from D - that includes a video of tests 
undertaken - to Marsh. So, Marsh had the chance to consider this at the relevant time. I couldnt access Ds video (because the link had expired) but I have seen detailed notes 
compiled by our investigator from her viewing. I think these are likely to be accurate. In 
summary, the investigator noted that the technician found the car lacked power based on 
stored fault codes and detailed diagnostic tests. He said boost pressure was just above 1000 
RPM, as it should be during idle conditions, but it barely boosts above 1 bar of pressure on 
acceleration - when the turbocharger should engage and boost to around 1.4 to 1.5 bars. 
The technician acknowledged the expert hadnt seen relevant fault codes. He thought this 
might have been due to some sort of reset before the inspection (as the expert himself 
acknowledged). Or the expert didnt use the same sort of diagnostic equipment and he was 
unable to access data that was visible to D - with more sophisticated diagnostic capability. 
Im satisfied the evidence from D suggests that the car has a significant issue. Reduced 
power is (at the very least) likely to be frustrating and inconvenient - and lack of acceleration 
may inhibit a drivers ability to negotiate traffic safely. I think it would have been reasonable 
for Marsh to consider this evidence  given it was provided shortly after the experts 
inspection and less than two months after the car was supplied. 
I appreciate the independent expert didnt identify the issues found by D (or any other fault) 
when he inspected. And I havent seen any documentary evidence to show that Mr G 
complained of loss of power when he first contacted Marsh in September 2021. Mr G told us 
the car was in limp mode in October 2021 but that was over a month after supply. However 
the expert acknowledged in his report that his inspection was mainly visual and carried out 
with no specialist equipment other than a fault code reader. Whereas I think its reasonably 
clear that D carried out a more thorough inspection  which included conducting different 
checks using specialist equipment and a road test. 
D is a main dealer for this brand and Id expect it to have relevant knowledge and expertise. I 
think its reasonable to give some weight to Ds evidence in this situation. And, even if it only 
became apparent that power was reduced in or about October 2021, this was within six 
months of supply. So, under the CRA, this issue taken to have been present when the car 
was supplied - unless theres evidence to the contrary. If Marsh had any doubts about Ds 
evidence it could have approached D for further information - I can see Mr G provided 
contact details and suggested Marsh should do so. Alternatively, Marsh could have asked 
the expert to comment. I think it would have been reasonable to do so in these specific 
circumstances  in light of the experts limited inspection and the new evidence from Ds 
more targeted testing. 
As things stand, from the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied, on balance, that faults appeared 
with the turbocharger within two months of supply. I dont know what caused this exactly. 
And I accept Mr G was able to drive the car some 2,500 miles by the time D carried out the 
VHC. I realise Marsh considers the miles covered after supply mean the car must have been 
fit for purpose at the outset. But I dont think a car has to stop running entirely to be of 
unsatisfactory quality.
Im satisfied that D carried out detailed testing here and concluded that the turbo had failed - 
in that there was a lack of power  and needed replacing. Im satisfied that a turbo is 
expected to much longer  if not for the life of a car. I find it unlikely this was due to 
something Mr G did or didnt do - in the relatively short time (and distance covered) he had 
the car when this fault appeared. And I consider its more likely than not the issue was 
present or developing when the car was supplied. I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect this sort of problem - even in a car of this age and mileage - so soon after supply. 
And Im inclined find the car was probably of unsatisfactory quality at the outset. 
I understand from information provided more recently that theres been an issue with the timing belt (at around 92,000 miles). I dont have much evidence about that. But information 
available online suggests the manufacturer would expect this part to last significantly longer. 
And, given Im already minded to find this car was not sufficiently durable, I dont think I need 
to make any further findings about that. 
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given, Im inclined to conclude that this car was of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr G. So Ive gone on to consider whats a fair and reasonable way 
to put things right. 
I dont have enough evidence at the moment to fairly find Mr G was entitled to reject the car, 
in the short term. But, Im minded to find the car probably had faults present when it was 
supplied. And, under the CRA, a consumer usually has the right to repair in this situation 
with a final right to reject if the cost of repairs is disproportionate or repairs dont work  or 
theyre likely to take too long or cause too much inconvenience for the consumer. I think Mr 
G may well have accepted repairs here if this had been offered last year. However, having 
considered everything thats happened since  including the upset and inconvenience Mr G 
has likely experienced since  Im minded to find it fair that he should be allowed to reject the 
car now and have his deposit of £100 (according to the HPA) refunded. 
Like the investigator, I consider the lack of power - due to the presence of the faulty turbo - is 
likely to have impaired Mr Gs use of the vehicle. Im inclined to find it fair that Marsh should 
refund 10% of each monthly payment made from October 2021 until collection to reflect that. 
Ive seen an invoice for £138 from D for the VHC. Im satisfied that Mr G would not have 
incurred this expense if the car had been of satisfactory quality at the outset. So I find it 
reasonable that Marsh should reimburse Mr G  on proof of payment. 
I think its likely being supplied with this faulty car caused Mr G to experience some distress 
and inconvenience. He had to take it for diagnostic and other checks, for example. And I am 
minded to find Marsh should pay Mr G £200 to compensate him for any distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any further 
comments and/or new evidence. Mr G didnt respond (by the time set) or raise any 
objections but Marsh disagreed. 
In summary, Marsh told us theyd spoken to Mr G, hes driven the car at least 10,000 miles 
and it has broken down because the timing belt failed. Marsh considers Mr G couldnt have 
driven the car so far if faults were present at the point of supply - which is consistent with the 
expert finding no faults present when he inspected in October 2021. Marsh goes on to say 
Mr G was unable to supply evidence of faults when he made the initial complaint and the car 
passed an MOT in May 2022  which confirms it was fit for use then. 
Having considered the additional information Marsh supplied, I wasnt persuaded to change 
my mind but I thought it was fair to let the parties have my provisional view about the more 
recent developments  the failed timing belt - so they could make further submissions if they 
wanted to before I made my final decision. 
I wrote to both parties informally on 30 September 2022 and said (for the reasons given in my provisional decision) I remained of the view that this car was not sufficiently durable. I 
accepted it passed an MOT in 2022 but this test checks that a vehicle is roadworthy on the 
day of the test only. And I wasnt persuaded this means the car must have been of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I acknowledged Mr G was able to drive the car 
some distance after supply but I thought it probably wasnt performing as it should have 
been during this time. And I remained of the view its fair and reasonable for Marsh to take 
the steps set out in my provisional decision to put things right.
I explained that Id seen nothing to show that the recent breakdown was connected to the 
issues reported previously. So, on the current evidence, I was unable to reasonably hold 
Marsh responsible for that. And I wasnt therefore minded to find Marsh should provide a 
greater refund or do anything further in this regard. I thought this issue would fall to be dealt 
with under the finance terms and conditions, in the usual way, after the car is returned. If Mr 
G was unhappy with that it would be open to him to raise any issues with Marsh and, if hes 
not satisfied with the response, he may be able to bring another complaint to this service.
I invited the parties to let me have any further comments or evidence by 6 October 2022. Mr 
G hasnt responded but Marsh (in summary) repeats the comments made previously about 
the experts inspection, MOT and distance travelled after supply. It says the expert would 
have noticed if the car had a turbo fault turbo during the inspection and Mr G couldnt have 
driven the car so far if faults said to be present were there at the point of supply.
Marsh also asked if Mr G could supply an up to date image of the odometer and the 
investigator requested that - but we havent had a reply. I dont think its fair or reasonable to 
delay this matter any further. Ive considered what Marsh says carefully but this hasnt 
persuaded me to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given already, I remain of the view 
its more likely than not this car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. And I find 
it is fair and reasonable for Marsh to take the steps set out below to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is I uphold this complaint and I require Marsh 
Finance Limited to:- 
1. End the finance agreement and arrange to collect the car at no additional cost to Mr 
G; 
2. Refund any deposit paid plus 10% of each monthly payment made from October 
2021 until the car is collected; 
3. Refund £138 for diagnostic checks  if Mr G provides documentary proof that this 
cost was incurred; 
4. Pay interest on the above refunds at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement; 
5. Pay Mr G £200 compensation for associated distress and inconvenience; and 
6. Remove any adverse information recorded about the HPA from Mr Gs credit file. 
If Marsh considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also give 
him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriateUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman