DRN-3226737
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain because XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (XL Catlin)
hasnt paid a cancellation claim under their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out an annual, worldwide travel insurance policy underwritten by XL 
Catlin. The policy was purchased on 10 May 2019 and expired on 9 May 2020. They paid a
premium of £121.70.
Mr and Mrs R were due to travel abroad on 31 March 2020. Their flights and accommodation
were booked separately.
On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO 
formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) advised against all non-essential
travel overseas.
On 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to the
UK and the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly
referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction to stay at
home other than for a limited list of essential reasons. Also, on the same day (23 March
2020), Mr and Mrs Rs airline cancelled their upcoming flights.
Mr and Mrs R received a refund for their cancelled flights from their airline and they also
received a refund for their hotel accommodation from the providers directly. As they were
due to visit two countries, they purchased visas for both in February 2020. They couldnt get
a refund for these as they were told they were still valid.
Mr and Mrs R therefore submitted a claim to XL Catlin for the cost of the visas. XL Catlin
said their claim wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of their policy. Unhappy with
this, Mr and Mrs R complained to XL Catlin before bringing the matter to this service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said although Mr and Mrs Rs policy didnt
provide cover for cancelling a holiday due to the FCDO advising against travel, the policy 
also wouldnt have provided any cover if Mr and Mrs R had gone ahead and travelled
against FCDO advice. Our investigator said she didnt think it was fair or reasonable for
Mr and Mrs R to be left in such a position. She therefore asked XL Catlin to reconsider their 
claim for their visa costs.
XL Catlin didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, it 
was passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties on 22 November 2021. I said the following:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and
Mrs Rs complaint.
I understand the situation which Mr and Mrs R found themselves in was completely
unprecedented and outside of their control. I also understand, when the insurance was
purchased in May 2019, the circumstances that unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt
have been foreseen by either consumers or insurers.
However, no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers are entitled to decide
what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for a policy. XL Catlins
obligations under its contract with Mr and Mrs R are limited by the terms, conditions and
exclusions which are set out in the policy.
Mr and Mrs Rs policy provides for XL Catlin to pay for a policyholders unused costs if a
holiday is cancelled because of one of a list of specific insured events. The Cancellation and
Curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Rs policy, at page 8, says XL Catlin will pay for certain
costs if a trip is cancelled for one of the following reasons:
What you are covered for
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the summary of cover for the unused
portion of your travel and accommodation costs that you have paid or contracted to
pay and you suffer a financial loss because you cannot get a full refund if you
cancel before the start of your trip or cut your trip short and return home early
during the period of insurance because of the following:
1. the death, bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of you, a close
relative or any person you have arranged to travel or stay with during your trip;
or
2. you being called for jury service or as a witness in a Court of Law (but not as an
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend
court); or
3. your redundancy, provided that you were working at your current place of
employment for a minimum of 2 years and that you were not aware of any
impending redundancy at the time this policy was issued or the trip was booked;
or
4. your home being made uninhabitable due to accidental damage, burglary,
flooding or fire;
5. the police requesting your presence following burglary or attempted burglary at
your home; or
6. your passport, or the passport of any person you were intending to travel with,
being stolen during the 7 days before the start date of your booked trip; or
7. you, or any person you intended to travel with, who is a member of the Armed
Forces, emergency services, the nursing profession or a government employee
being ordered to return to duty.
Mr and Mrs Rs trip wasnt cancelled for any of the above reasons. This means their claim
isnt covered under the Cancellation and Curtailment section of their policy.
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Rs travel policy, but I dont think
they held cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they found themselves in.
Our investigator correctly pointed out that Mr and Mrs Rs policy wouldnt have provided
cover if theyd gone ahead and travelled against FCDO advice. She thought this left Mr and
Mrs R in an unfair position. There may be some limited situations where, if I didnt think an
insurer had clearly and transparently signposted a policyholder to certain policy provisions
relating to claims for changes in FCDO advice and/or claims for travelling against FCDO
advice, I might think it was fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim outside of astrict application of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think it would be fair or
reasonable for me to ask XL Catlin to do so here.
This is because the Cancellation and Curtailment section of Mr and Mrs Rs policy also
says:
What you are NOT covered for
7. Claims arising from prohibitive regulations by the government of any country.
Its difficult to pinpoint with any certainty one specific reason for Mr and Mrs Rs claim. A
combination of factors  the spread of Covid-19, FCDO advice and government restrictions
both in the UK and abroad  are all likely to have impacted to some degree on Mr and Mrs
Rs airlines decision to cancel their flights.
But Mr and Mrs Rs trip was cancelled on 23 March 2020  which was the same date the UK
restrictions on movement were announced, and these restrictions remained in force until
after Mr and Mrs R would have been due to return to the UK.
So, not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Rs holiday not covered as
listed insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion Ive quoted above
would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
I understand it was costly for Mr and Mrs R to purchase their visas, particularly as they were
valid and Im sorry to disappoint them. I appreciate they received a refund for their flight and
accommodation providers. However, this doesnt mean XL Catlin acted unfairly or
unreasonable by declining their claim.
As such, I dont currently intend to recommend that XL Catlin should do anything further.
Mr and Mrs R responded to my provisional decision. They said:
It was the airline that cancelled their flights and had it not been for that decision, they 
could still have travelled had they wanted to;
The countries Mr and Mrs R were intending to travel to were still allowing visitors. 
And the reason they didnt get a refund on their visas was because they were still 
valid at that time. They couldnt use those visas as the airline had cancelled their 
flights; and
If XL Catlin have decided to decline their claim, the very least it can do is agree to 
refund the premium they paid for the policy.
XL Catlin didnt respond and has provided no further comments.
The complaint has been passed to me to consider the further comments from Mr and Mrs R 
and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and
Mrs Rs complaint.Ive reconsidered the further comments Mr and Mrs R have put to me. However, based on all 
the available evidence, I see no reasons to depart from the outcome of my provisional 
decision. Im therefore not upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Overall, Mr and Mrs Rs trip wasnt cancelled because of one of a list of specific insured 
events. This means their claim isnt covered under the Cancellation and Curtailment 
section of their policy. Having reviewed the remaining sections of Mr and Mrs Rs travel 
policy, I dont think they held cover which would pay a benefit in the circumstances they 
found themselves in.
So, not only are the reasons for the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Rs holiday not covered as
listed insured events under their policy, I think its likely the exclusion which states that no 
cover will be provided in the event of a claim arising from prohibitive regulations by the 
government of any country would apply to the circumstances of their claim anyway.
I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Rs further comments that had it not been for the airline 
cancelling their flights, they would have been able to travel. However, I dont agree because 
on 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all non-essential travel overseas.
And on 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all British tourists who were abroad to return to 
the UK and the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement within 
the UK, commonly referred to as lockdown. The government announcement included an 
instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons.
So even if the flights hadnt been cancelled by Mr and Mrs Rs on 23 March 2020, its very 
likely they wouldve been cancelled by the time they were due to travel on 31 March 2020. 
And, if the flights hadnt been cancelled, based on the advice given by the FCDO and the UK 
government by 23 March 2020 against all but essential travel, its unlikely Mr and Mrs R 
would have been able to travel as the UK was in a state of national lockdown and remained 
so on the date Mr and Mrs R were due to travel and remained in force until after Mr and Mrs 
R would have been due to return to the UK. Overall, in the circumstances of this complaint, 
Im not persuaded that XL Catlin declined the claim unfairly and it follows that I dont think it 
needs to do anything further. 
In terms of Mr and Mrs Rs comments that they should receive a refund of their premium, I 
note that this wasnt an issue they raised by them when they made their complaint to XL 
Catlin. As such, its not an issue I can comment on, and theyll need to raise this separately 
with XL Catlin as it doesnt form part of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against XL Catlin 
Insurance Company UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman