DRN-4428959
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain Gerald Pepper Financial Management Limited (GPFM) advised 
them to make investments that were too risky and didnt match their attitude to risk. They 
also complain GPFMs charges were excessive.
What happened
I set out the complaint background in my provisional decision of 15 September 2023, in the 
following terms:
Mr and Mrs D invested £600,000 in an investment bond and £400,000 on an investment 
platform on the advice of GFPM given in November 2018. GPFM charged £10,000 for 
this advice. GPFM later, in May 2019, advised them to invest around £5 million (£5m), 
including transferring the funds of around £400,000 from the earlier investment platform, 
into an investment account (the investment account) on a new platform. 
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint about risk relates to the investment account and this later 
advice for which GPFM charged them £5000. Their complaint about charges relates to 
both sets of advice.
In early November 2018, to assess Mr and Mrs Ds attitude to investment risk, GPFM 
used a risk questionnaire. The file copy is in Mr Ds name. According to its answers, 
Mr and Mrs D strongly disagreed with investing a very significant amount in a high-risk 
investment and with the idea they would get a thrill or excitement from risky 
investments and with the idea that the level of risk didnt matter compared to getting 
higher returns. They strongly agreed they would worry a great deal if they thought they 
would lose money in an investment.
On the same questionnaire, Mr and Mrs D agreed (but not strongly) they would worry 
about losing money on, and the instability and volatility of, the stock market. They 
disagreed (but not strongly) with being happy to accept large short-term falls to 
maximise long-term returns and with being happy to risk losses to get potentially greater 
long-term gains and with being prepared to take an investment risk if there were a 
chance of making better long-term returns and with the idea that they took bigger risks 
with money than others or that risks were needed to make money or that they expected 
high investment growth and were willing to accept the consequent possibility of large 
losses.
Finally Mr and Mrs Ds answer was neither agree nor disagree to statements that The 
idea that the value of my investments can be variable makes me feel anxious and to I 
would be anxious if I saw my investments had gone down in value and to being happy 
putting my money into the stock market.
Mr and Mrs Ds risk attitude was assessed on the questionnaire as being three out of ten 
- described as Low Medium - based on these answers. It was recorded in GPFMs fact 
find notes at that time in that way too. GPFMs risk report from that time indicates it 
arrived at an overall risk level of three for Mr and Mrs D and that they chose to stay with 
this level when asked whether they wished to change it.
But GPFMs risk report has a note that says: Agreed with client portfolio using funds 
that match a risk profile 3 and 4. An email GPFM sent Mr and Mrs D at the time 
confirms they met at the time of the risk report and goes on to say:
Just to summarise we will recommend and construct an investment portfolio for £1m, 
investing in funds that match a risk profile of 3 or a risk profile of 4. We agreed you do 
not need to invest into anything [higher] than that to meet your objectives.
The idea was to invest for capital growth initially but with a view to income being taken in 
future. GPFM presented recommendations to Mr and Mrs D towards the end of 
November. Its note of that meeting says: Having completed the risk profiling 
questionnaire and looking at potential income needs, the answers indicate that 
[Mr and Mrs D] would be happy to take a low-medium risk approach, the answers 
indicating a risk profile of 3. But it then also says:
Looking at the monetary gain and loss figures on page 9, [Mr and Mrs D] were happy 
with the parameters of a risk level 3 and risk level 4, feeling they could afford to take risk 
in terms of assets, they would not be comfortable taking high levels of risk. They have 
capacity for loss but only need to generate a fairly modest level of return, mainly just 
beating inflation, so we agreed a risk level of 3 and a risk level of 4 would be appropriate 
for the £1m
The reference to page nine refers to where the risk report shows best and worst one 
year losses and gains in the previous 20 years for different risk levels. For level three the 
loss is £72,100 and the gain £134,500. For level four the loss is £152,300 and the gain 
£217,400 (based on a £1m investment). The report stated losses could exceed the 
examples shown.
The November 2018 investment report presented to Mr and Mrs D with GPFMs specific 
recommendations said their risk questionnaire answers indicated you are low medium 
risk investors with a risk profile of 3 but Having discussed the associated potential 
gains and losses you stated that the risk parameters of 3, low medium to 4, low medium, 
is the most accurate reflection of your current attitude to risk. It also said: Your ability to 
cope with a loss in relation to the capital invested was considered during our 
discussions. Specifically, we discussed the effect the loss of any capital invested would 
have on your standard of living and we have taken this into account in our 
recommendations.
According to GPFMs meeting notes, Mr and Mrs D had received substantial cash sums 
due to the sale of a business interest and the £1m they were preparing to invest at that 
time was a small part of their total cash. It recorded cash deposits at the time of around 
£10m. They also had various residential and commercial property assets.
Risk level three and risk level four, although different risk levels, had the same name of 
Low Medium and the same description as follows:
People in this category have a low-medium risk tolerance and are likely to be 
concerned about the possibility of losing money, but do not want to completely ignore 
the possibility of making higher returns. You may have some experience of investment 
products or may value capital security over high returns. You probably want greater 
returns than are offered by bank accounts and other low risk investments, and therefore 
are prepared to accept some fluctuation in return for potential growth in products such 
as Fixed Interest Securities, Property, UK Equity or International Equity and realise that 
they are likely to be better for longer-term returns. You could get back less than you 
invested.The risk report contains asset allocation bar charts showing example asset allocations 
for the different risk levels. This shows, broadly, for level three 17.5% cash, 35% fixed 
interest bonds and 37.5% shares with the remainder in property. Comparable figures for 
level four are 10% cash, 25% fixed interest bonds and 55% shares (the remainder in 
property). For level five, on the same broad basis, it was 5% cash, 22% fixed interest 
bonds and 67.5% shares (and the remainder property). Small amounts of emerging 
market assets are added from level four onwards. Level five is called Medium and is 
described as follows:
People in this category have a medium risk tolerance and would probably prefer 
investments to fluctuate less and make more modest returns than risk losing money for 
higher returns. It is likely that you are looking for a balance of risk and reward, with the 
potential for higher returns in the longer term, and you may have some experience of 
investment, including investing in products containing riskier assets such as equities and 
bonds or may be willing to take some risks with your capital. You are probably prepared 
to accept some fluctuation in order to make higher returns than exclusively low risk 
investments and are aware that the value of your investment will rise and fall. Examples 
of investments may include Fixed Interest Securities, Property, UK Equities, and 
International Equities. You could get back less than you invested.
The funds GPFM recommended for the £400,000 investment were considered by GPFM 
in its notes at the time to be at risk level three overall. For the £600,000 bond the fund 
risk levels were considered by GPFM in its notes to be riskier and at level four overall 
and with a higher equity content because the bond was likely to stay invested for 
longer so, potentially, can tolerate more volatility
After investing the £1m, there followed exchanges in March and April 2019 in which 
Mr and Mrs D asked GPFM about the feasibility of funding their spending using the cash 
they would have left if they spent a certain amount buying a house. Their spending need 
estimate was £250,000 a year, with existing rental income covering around £100,000 of 
this.
A meeting note of 1 May 2019 explains that GPFM and Mr and Mrs D looked at figures 
for potential returns on their money and Mr and Mrs D as a result at that time had a 
degree of comfort that they can withdraw the £170,000 a year allowing for inflation 
which is what they needed and that they will not run out of money for a considerable 
period which may not be during their lifetime The note says: as a result of that 
they are happy to proceed and they would welcome an investment recommendation 
from us formally. This would be based on investing £5m into an investment account 
within a portfolio which will yield 5.5% net of any management charges.
GPFMs recommendations for the £5m investment were set out in a 9 May 2019 
investment report. This stated Mr and Mrs Ds objective as investing for growth with a 
5.5% yearly return and the ability to draw £170,000 in todays terms from 2024. When 
referring to their attitude to risk and capacity for loss, it referred to their 2018 risk 
questionnaire and said this indicated they were low medium risk investors with a risk 
profile of 3. It also said: Having discussed the associated potential gains and losses 
you stated that the risk parameters of 4, low medium would be most suitable. However, 
we also discussed potential gains and you stated that achieving an annual gain of 5.5% 
was your objective.
The report then set out the description of risk profile level four (which as noted above 
was the same as for level three) but also the target return and historical one year loss 
figures for level four (which are higher than for level three). The report highlighted the 
historical loss figure and said the advice takes into account our discussions around capacity for loss and your indication of how much you could afford to lose. The report 
also said Mr and Mrs D understood there was the possibility this loss figure could be 
exceeded.
A GPFM meeting note says it went through the report with Mr and Mrs D that day. This 
says:
I did, however, highlight that the risk profiling that we use looks at volatility, and whilst 
previously agreed as risk level 4 as investors at low-medium, the funds for this 
investment will be medium risk, risk level 5, due to the increased equity exposure but the 
clients acknowledged that they could afford to take this higher level of risk as they are 
not looking to draw from the funds for 5 years and could ride out any short term 
fluctuations in values. The clients understand the risks associated and that their 
overriding objective is to achieve 5.5% and therefore they are happy that if they sit at 
medium risk, risk level 5, they are comfortable with this. Their original risk profile is not of 
course set in stone. I explained that as part of our research we did try and find suitable 
funds at a slightly lower risk level but there were none that have achieved 5.5% 
historically hence the need to increase the equity content slightly and therefore a 
portfolio at risk level 5 based upon volatility. It went on to say Mr and Mrs D were also 
happy to have their existing bond moved to risk profile five and that this is something 
GPFM would look into for them.
When asked for comment on the increase in the risk profile of their investments from 
level three to level five, Mr and Mrs D told us: We did have discussion about [other 
investments including the bond] being invested at a higher level of risk than the one we 
had profiled at, because we were not drawing on any of these; the [bond] being put in 
place for one-off purchases if necessary and therefore used very occasionally. But they 
say: It was not explained to us that we were increasing the level of risk on [the 
investment account] to such an extent. If we had understood this completely, we would 
never have accepted it.
Returning to the May 2019 report, the section headed Investment strategy said: I have 
recommended the following investment strategy as it reflects your overall risk profile and 
investment objective for capital growth potential. It went on to set out a fund mix which it 
said had a risk profile of 5, Medium. It added:
You will see from the above that the proposed investment strategy is currently rated as 
having a risk profile of 5, medium risk, which is higher than your stated risk profile of 4, 
low medium risk. As discussed, our risk profiling is based upon the past 3 years 
volatility. However, as mentioned previously you are looking to achieve returns of 5.5% 
per annum and as such, we based our research primarily on past performance and 
funds which had achieved these returns. Therefore, on this occasion, I free comfortable 
in recommending an investment strategy for your investment which currently falls just 
outside of your stated risk profile of 5. GPFM confirms this was meant to say outside 
your stated risk profile of 4. It says the system it used analysed the volatility of the funds 
over the previous three years and the volatility of the funds selected were within the 
volatility band for a risk profile five investor.
Mr and Mrs D have said: We were surprised when we realised later that the 
[investment account], which had been put in place to provide safe, steady regular 
income, was invested at risk level of 5 or above. They have said: What we now know is 
that the level of risk was increased to accommodate our expenditure estimate. Had it 
been explained in these terms it would have prompted a re-assessment of expenditure 
for us. They say there was some frivolous leisure spending on which they could have 
readily economised if need be in order to maintain the risk profile at one with which we felt comfortable.
According to M and Mrs D: Rather than discussing expenditure being reduced to keep 
the risk reasonable, we were encouraged to keep expenditure high with no discussion of 
the management of it, just increase the level of risk in [the investment account] and it 
seemed to be along the lines of predicting the most that we might ever spend in a year 
and then increasing the level of risk of the investment in order to accommodate the 
expenditure [GPFM had] encouraged us to estimate.
The investment account was invested in five funds, split equally between them. I note 
four of these funds were, according to their fact sheets, in the mixed investment sector 
for funds with between 40% to 85% invested shares, with 40% being the minimum 
amount allowed in shares and with no equivalent minimum for fixed interest bond 
investments. The other fund was in the flexible investment sector, for funds with no 
minimum or maximum requirements for shares or fixed interest bond investments, so 
such funds could invest 100% in shares if the manager so desired. Our investigator 
calculated the asset allocation of the investment account overall was 65% shares of 
which 45% were overseas shares. A report from GPFM for April 2019 supports this 65% 
figure. Incidentally, this is also in line with the allocation anticipated by the example bar 
chart in the risk report for a level five investment.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. She thought GPFM had made its 
charges clear enough and it was entitled to charge what it had charged Mr and Mrs D 
and they had agreed to those charges. She also thought Mr and Mrs D could afford to 
invest the sums they invested and had sufficient capital elsewhere for any short-term 
needs.
But our investigator didnt think GPFMs advice to take a higher level of risk with the £5m 
investment account was suitable for Mr and Mrs D in the circumstances. She noted it 
was rated as medium risk and five out of ten - higher than the level the risk 
questionnaire had arrived at and higher than the level four profile set out earlier in the 
2019 investment report.
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs D had wanted risk at level three, so to go to level four 
and then five was beyond what they wanted  and she thought they wouldve invested 
differently upon appropriate advice, even if this meant accepting less income. She said 
GPFM had noted and informed Mr and Mrs D that to generate the level of income they 
required, it was necessary that they take more risk to achieve higher returns  and 
Mr and Mrs D agreed to this. But she thought Mr and Mrs D had little experience of 
investment market risk, and kept their funds largely in deposit savings, and so wouldve 
relied to a large extent on GFPMs expertise in this area. She didnt think GPFM 
explained clearly the risk carried by the funds that would be used. She thought 
Mr and Mrs D understood the funds to be lower risk than they actually were.
Our investigator suggested that Mr and Mrs D wanted growth and income with a small 
risk to capital, and that the performance of the £5m investment account, including the 
reinvestment of the earlier £400,000 investment, be compared with what they wouldve 
got instead if their money had achieved a return half like the FTSE UK Private Investors 
Income Total Return Index (the Income Index) and half like the average return on fixed 
rate savings bonds. Redress would be any shortfall at the comparison date plus interest 
from that date.
The Income Index is designed to represent the performance of a mixed asset 
benchmark with lower than average levels of historical volatility. Its asset allocation 
varies but I note that in March 2023 its share content was around 45% - in between the 37.5% and 55% the risk report showed for risk levels three and four (but with a little 
more emphasis on international rather than UK shares than shown for those levels). So 
using this to model 50% of the return would imply an allocation to shares of around 22%. 
For reference, the Balanced version of the index had a 58% allocation to shares on the 
same date and is described as modelling a mixed asset benchmark with above average 
levels of historical volatility.
On the understanding that the investment was no longer in force, our investigator 
suggested that the comparison date be the date Mr and Mrs D stopped holding the 
investment. GPFMs view on the comparison date (although not accepting that there 
ought to be a comparison) was that it should be the date Mr and Mrs D switched out of 
all five funds. Also it said the investment had done better than the suggested benchmark 
by April 2022 (a gain of more than £750,000 compared to around £500,000 for the 
benchmark), so there was no loss.
Mr and Mrs Ds view was that, based on expert advice, the comparison should be done 
on the date they changed advisers, which they initially said was 20 March 2020 but then 
said was 24 March 2020 as this was when the investment platform recorded the adviser 
change. They said what they did after that, on the advice of their new adviser, wasnt 
relevant and any claim after that date was a potential claim against their new adviser.
Our investigator noted that it might take a new adviser time to assess, advise and 
implement changes and so if changes were made by the new adviser the date of these 
changes could still be relevant, so she asked for details of what had happened to the 
investment after the new adviser took over. Mr and Mrs D said the investment was 
changed significantly to reduce risk on 30 April 2020, by selling two funds and reducing 
the equity exposure from between 40% and 85% to between 25% and 52%. They said 
this revised allocation fitted their agreed risk profile. They sent contract notes to show 
the position of the investment account at that time following those sales.
Our investigator agreed that 30 April 2020 was the correct date and said the value at this 
time was £4,750,046. She said the actual June 2019 start date should be used and the 
actual amount invested, which she understood as £5,005,000. Any additions or 
withdrawals needed to be accounted for. Mr and Mrs D have said there werent any 
before 30 April 2020.
The FTSE 100 index reached 5190 on 20 March 2020 and 5446 on 24 March 2020 and 
5901 on 30 April 2020. So, using that as a broad proxy for the performance of shares, 
losses caused by extra exposure to shares were likely lower by 30 April 2020 than they 
were on 20 or 24 March 2020. Mr and Mrs D agreed to the proposed 30 April 2020 
calculation date. GPFM didnt agree. In brief summary GPFM said:
In March 2020 when the funds were falling and Mr and Mrs D were getting anxious, 
they spoke only of charges and not of their funds being invested at the wrong risk 
level. They asked GPFM for a refund of fees in return for not complaining. GPFM 
refused, most importantly because it stood by its advice. Mr and Mrs D had 
investment experience, holding unit linked investments and pensions at the outset, 
and arranged access to better than next-day unit price updates so they could monitor 
these closely. Their cash was mostly in deposit accounts but that is because they 
had just sold their business.
It wasnt GPFM but the new adviser that advised the 30 April 2020 sale of the two 
funds, crystallising the loss and turning a paper loss into an actual loss. That advice 
was wrong and negligent. The investment report shows Mr and Mrs D were happy to 
invest in funds at risk level five and at the time of the surrender the drawdown was six or seven percent and well within the ten percent tolerance mark. They didnt need 
money until 2024.The pandemic was a once in a lifetime event. Mr and Mrs D 
panicked and made the wrong decision to sell. GPFM wasnt responsible for that 
decision. All five funds were managed by well-known groups. As GPFMs previous 
calculation had shown, the funds recovered. GPFMs strategy was right and met 
Mr and Mrs Ds needs and objectives, which they had spent much time agreeing on.
If it is considered that the calculation end date should be when two of the funds were 
sold, then to be fair to all parties the dates and values at which all five funds were 
sold should be considered.
I also note in particular the following points made by GPFM in its final response letter, in 
brief summary:
Mr and Mrs D asked GPFM in March 2019 whether their net funds could provide an 
income of £150,000 a year after tax. After more discussion they decided to commit 
£5m to this and the objective was to achieve growth of 5.5% net of costs to cover 
their income requirement and allow for capital growth to keep up with inflation. 
GPFM made clear in 2018 it was working on the basis of a risk profile of three or 
four. In 2019 a risk profile of five was agreed for ISAs and pensions. The idea of a 
£1m equity only portfolio was also discussed in February 2019, which is significant 
as it indicates some detailed discussion on and understanding of risk. Its notes on 
this say: We had a fairly detailed conversation about asset classes and how asset 
classes are used to construct a portfolio and what that may look like with regards to 
their current portfolios, which are risk profile 3 and 4 and how this differs to an 
equity-only situation, whereby he will not be invested in funds.
GPFMs May 2019 report made clear and left no doubt about the risk rating of the 
recommended funds. Mr Ds pension fund (of around £350,000) and Mr and Mrs Ds 
ISAs were switched to risk level five before the May 2019 advice and the discussion 
in May 2019 led to the same thing for their bond after that. It seems Mr and Mrs D 
were comfortable investing at this risk level and understood the increased level of 
potential volatility associated with it.
In my provisional decision I said I thought Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. I set 
out my provisional findings in the following terms:
From what Ive seen, GPFM disclosed its charges and I havent identified grounds for 
saying it wasnt entitled to charge or shouldnt have charged Mr and Mrs D at the rates it 
did for the services it was offering. I dont find the charges excessive in nature or see 
grounds to uphold that part of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Turning to the May 2019 advice, GPFM assessed Mr and Mrs D in its risk report six 
months earlier as having a level three risk attitude on its ten-point scale. This led GPFM 
to conclude then that it might be suitable, based on recent historic volatility scores, for 
Mr and Mrs D to invest in a way that, according to its bar charts, could involve around 
37% being put into shares. It made that assessment taking into account their risk 
questionnaire answers.
Looking at those answers, there are none in which Mr and Mrs D gave a positive answer 
about being willing to take risk or wanting risk. So the extent to which GPFM concluded 
Mr and Mrs D were willing to take investment risk, appears to have arisen from neutral 
answers they gave - so neither agreeing nor disagreeing with the question about risk  
and from answers they gave that were negative about risk but werent the most negative 
answer available  so disagreeing with risk or agreeing to its opposite, but not doing so strongly.
With this in mind, there is little in the questionnaire in my view to suggest Mr and Mrs D 
were willing or wanting at the time to take more risk than the questionnaire suggested or 
that it was suitable to recommend Mr and Mrs D take more risk or that Mr and Mrs Ds 
appetite for risk might be somewhat higher than it had been assessed as being. In this 
regard I note also that Mr and Mrs D were asked in November 2018 whether they 
wished to change from the level three risk attitude GPFM had assessed them as having, 
and they did not wish to do so.
Still, in November 2018 GPFMs investment report recommended 40% of their 
investment at that time be invested at GPFMs level four - at which level more than half 
might be in shares. Ive seen nothing in GPFMs notes or reports to suggest 
Mr and Mrs D initiated this change. But they dont dispute that they agreed to it and were 
willing to take more risk with that part of their money at the time. The investment report 
at the time said Mr and Mrs D said the range of three to four was the most accurate 
reflection of their current attitude to risk. From what they have said, Mr and Mrs D 
appear to accept that this was so, which also gives support to the approach GPFM took 
at the time. The investment recommendation matched what GPFM set out for 
Mr and Mrs D about their risk attitude in the 2018 investment report.
In explaining why Mr and Mrs D were comfortable taking this level of risk, GPFM noted 
they could afford to take risk in terms of assets and had capacity for loss. The amount 
put into the bond with the higher risk level of four was less than half the total, which itself 
was a small part of a much larger cash sum Mr and Mrs D had available. So 
Mr and Mrs D agreed in 2018 to depart partly from their general risk attitude and take a 
higher level of risk with what was a relatively small sum. Also GPFMs own notes said  
and Mr and Mrs D have agreed  that more shares were included in the bond because it 
was the part of their investment that was likely to stay invested for longer so, potentially, 
can tolerate more volatility So it had a potentially longer investment horizon.
There were, then, specific reasons why part of the investment in 2018 was invested at a 
higher risk level than the level three Mr and Mrs D had been assessed as - and had 
declared themselves to be - comfortable with at that time.
GPFM has pointed out that in the months that followed between November 2018 and the 
May 2019 advice, Mr and Mrs D agreed to make other investments at risk level five, like 
Mr Ds pension. But this doesnt make me think Mr and Mrs Ds risk attitude had 
increased in general to that higher level. I say this bearing in mind that there were 
specific reasons for them being willing to take more risk with the bond, and the 
investments GPFM has referred to were, like the bond, small parts of Mr and Mrs Ds 
overall investible assets. Also the pension, like the bond, will have had a longer 
anticipated investment time horizon. So I dont see that it follows from these other 
investments that the level of risk GPFM recommended in May 2019 for the investment 
account was suitable.
In saying this I note no new assessment of Mr and Mrs Ds general risk attitude had 
been undertaken by May 2019 to replace the 2018 level three assessment. The 
investment report in May 2019 referred back to that risk profile. If instead more recent 
investments at level five represented Mr and Mrs Ds new general risk attitude, the 
report could have said so. But it did not. It did say, though, that after a discussion 
Mr and Mrs D expressed the view that risk level four would be most suitable. So, on 
the face of it, their risk attitude at the time was level four or level three.
But GPFM recommended investments at a higher risk level  its risk level five. Its report acknowledged this was just outside Mr and Mrs Ds stated risk profile. At this level 
investments could, from the bar chart description, have around 67% in shares. The 
funds recommended by GPFM could hold an even higher amount in shares if the 
managers chose.
Based on the risk appetite GPFM had assessed Mr and Mrs D as having in May 2019, 
the investments GPFM recommended for the investment account were not suitable and 
carried too much risk. The fact GPFM pointed out both the risk level of the 
recommended investments and their mismatch with Mr and Mrs Ds risk appetite, 
doesnt change the fact that there was a mismatch. Giving information is not the same 
as giving suitable advice.
Also I dont think Mr and Mrs Ds acceptance of the recommendation is evidence their 
risk appetite was in fact higher than GPFM assessed in the report. I say this firstly 
because I dont see why GPFM wouldnt have recorded Mr and Mrs D as having a 
higher risk appetite, and one in line with its recommendation, if it had grounds for doing 
so. Secondly it appears from GPFMs own notes that placing the funds at a higher risk 
level was driven by the potential returns and the possibility that these could produce, 
and sustain over the longer term, the income Mr and Mrs D wanted  rather than being 
driven by consideration of the particular risk appetite Mr and Mrs D had at the time. 
Thirdly, unlike with the November 2018 advice and the smaller investments that 
followed, Mr and Mrs D dont accept that they had or agreed to having this higher 
appetite for risk when it came to the May 2019 investments.
Also I note Mr and Mrs Ds capacity to afford potential losses was a key consideration 
when GPFM recommended, and Mr and Mrs D agreed to, a higher level of risk for the 
bond at the November 2018 advice. I dont see that this consideration could apply in the 
same way for the very much more substantial sum they were being advised on in May 
2019, given also that the risk level being recommended was, and so the potential losses 
were, higher.
According to GPFMs notes, the £5m being invested was the cash Mr and Mrs D 
deemed available to them to invest for their income, after allowing for other expenditure 
such as a house purchase. GPFM suggests that the level of risk it recommended was 
the level needed to generate the income Mr and Mrs D wanted. If there had been other 
funds readily available to Mr and Mrs D that they had been willing to commit to this 
objective, it would follow that the same income objective couldve been pursued at a 
lower level of risk. So GPFMs view that the level of risk it recommended was necessary 
to meet Mr and Mrs Ds income objective, seems to me to imply that Mr and Mrs D didnt 
have other funds they could or were willing to readily commit to this objective. This being 
so, it follows that they could not readily afford to suffer significant losses on the invested 
sum, as such losses couldnt be readily replaced. So this reinforces my view that the 
situation was not at all like the earlier instances in which a higher degree of risk was 
taken on smaller sums that kept the losses being risked well within Mr and Mrs Ds 
capacity for loss.
If Mr and Mrs Ds income objective could not be achieved at a suitable risk level, GPFM 
should have advised them to manage their expenditure within the available income 
budget. Encouraging them instead to gamble on achieving higher returns by taking more 
risk than was suitable for them, was not appropriate. Whether GPFM encouraged 
Mr and Mrs D to inflate their income objective or whether the objective was one they 
approached GPFM with, makes no difference to my view on this point. Higher risk may 
lead to higher returns, but this isnt guaranteed. Losses would increase the rate of return 
needed to maintain an income, and so could reduce the income that could be taken. The 
evidence shows GPFM made clear to Mr and Mrs D the potential the riskier investment had to achieve higher returns and their desired income. But there is no equivalent 
evidence of a discussion of what Mr and Mrs D might do to replace losses or reduce 
spending if taking a higher risk led to significant losses.
In saying this, I dont overlook GPFMs meeting note that says Mr and Mrs D understood 
the risks and expressed the view that they could afford to take the higher level of risk. It 
says they said this on the basis that they were not looking to access the funds within five 
years and could ride out any short-term fluctuations in values. But losses arent always 
reversed by the passage of time or within the short term. In my view this note doesnt 
persuade me that due consideration was given to the risk of loss posed by taking the 
higher level of risk.
I note also that the written report Mr and Mrs D were given says the advice takes into 
account our discussions around capacity for loss and your indication of how much you 
could afford to lose. But this is on a page that sets out Mr and Mrs Ds risk profile as 
level four, gives the risk description for level four and quotes the one-year loss figure for 
level four  not for the level five risk that was being recommended.
The report also refers to the investment at level five as being just outside 
Mr and Mrs Ds risk profile. In my view this doesnt give a fair and balanced account of 
the extra risk being taken  it plays it down instead. In my view the extra risk of the 
higher risk profile was significant and not something to be dismissed in this way. I note 
also that the risk description for a level five investment isnt set out at all in the 
investment report.
All this tends to reinforce my view that the extent of the risk being taken wasnt properly 
drawn to Mr and Mrs D attention at the time, even if GPFM did at some point discuss 
with them the figures for or description of a level five investment.
To the extent that the information GPFM gave Mr and Mrs D was flawed in the ways Ive 
touched upon above, it tends to reinforce my view that Mr and Mrs Ds decision to 
accept GPFMs advice to invest in the level five investment is not in itself good evidence 
that they had a higher risk attitude than the level four attitude GPFMs report said they 
agreed they had. Id add that even if GPFM hadnt played down the difference in the risk 
levels and had included the correct description and figures in its report, this wouldnt in 
itself mean that its advice was suitable. Nor would this persuade me, given all the other 
points Ive already noted above, that Mr and Mrs D had an appetite for risk that matched 
the recommended investment and exceeded the risk appetite the report had stated that 
they had.
I accept that the reason Mr and Mrs Ds funds were in cash when they met with GPFM 
was because they had just sold a business and not because they had built these up 
within cash accounts over a period of time, avoiding risk investments. But this still 
means Mr and Mrs D did not have experience of investing those funds in risk 
investments in financial markets. So in my view Mr and Mrs D wouldve relied on what 
GPFM told them and its guidance when considering the differences between different 
levels of risk and the potential for losses.
In saying this, I dont overlook what GPFM says about Mr and Mrs D already having a 
pension and unit linked investments. But Ive not seen anything to make me think that 
putting relatively small sums into a pension over time or into an ISA made Mr and Mrs D 
in November 2018, or six months later in May 2019, experienced risk takers in financial 
markets. I note again their answers to the risk questionnaire in 2018 tend to indicate a 
very limited appetite for risk-taking in financial markets, particularly for larger sums.So, in light of what Ive said above, I find GPFMs recommendation in May 2019 wasnt 
suitable and placed Mr and Mrs Ds investment in the investment account at too much 
risk. Mr and Mrs D were seeking GPFMs advice. I see no persuasive reason to suppose 
that they wouldnt have followed GPFMs advice had GPFM given them suitable advice 
to take an appropriate amount of risk. This is also what they say they wouldve done. 
So I find GPFMs advice was unsuitable and caused Mr and Mrs D to invest in a way 
they wouldnt have done otherwise. GPFM charged them £5000 for this unsuitable 
advice. In my view it is fair for GPFM to refund that to Mr and Mrs D. I say this bearing in 
mind they took fresh advice later (and acted on it) with a view to correcting and reducing 
the risk to which the investment account was exposed. In my view it is fair to regard the 
refunded fee as a fair contribution from GPFM towards costs associated with that new 
advice.
Turning to what Mr and Mrs D mightve done differently, in my view the Income Index is 
a reasonable benchmark for the return Mr and Mrs D might have achieved upon suitable 
advice. I say this taking into account what Ive said about its asset allocation and how its 
allocation to shares is within the range of that for GPFMs risk levels three and four. I 
bear in mind that level three was the profile Mr and Mrs D were assessed by GPFM as 
having in general and level four is the level to which they agreed to increase this at the 
May 2019 advice. The Income Index is designed for below average volatility, which in 
my view matches the approach Mr and Mrs D were seeking in a way the equivalent 
Balanced Index would not.
Im satisfied that 30 April 2020 is the right date on which to make the comparison. I say 
this because at that time Mr and Mrs D sold two of the five funds within the investment 
account, acting on advice they had recently taken from another adviser. In my view, 
having chosen to retain certain funds and to sell others on the advice of the new adviser, 
any losses or gains made by Mr and Mrs D from that point on are properly viewed as 
gains or losses resulting from the advice given by the new adviser and are no longer the 
responsibility of GPFM. The effect of GPFMs advice, and the fault in that advice, 
therefore stopped on 30 April 2020. Any loss found on that date is loss caused by the 
fault in GPFMs advice, which led to the investment account losing more at that point 
than if it had been invested in a suitable and less risky investment mix.
Mr and Mrs D werent unreasonable to choose not to carry on with the unsuitable 
investment mix - which could otherwise have caused greater loss - and to change it 
when they did and take and act on new advice. The fact Mr and Mrs D would have made 
a gain at some later date by holding on to the original investments, isnt something they 
couldve known at the time. Also it doesnt change the fact that GPFM caused 
Mr and Mrs D loss, as they didnt hold onto those funds, so they did in fact suffer a loss 
caused by GPFM.
Id add that consumers selling a risky investment after it falls in value, is a common and 
entirely foreseeable result of advice to take too much investment risk. So what GPFM 
says about Mr and Mrs D having panicked doesnt change my view that GPFM is at fault 
and responsible for Mr and Mrs Ds loss in the way and to the extent Ive described 
above.
I make no judgement about the merits of the particular steps Mr and Mrs D took to 
address the excess risk as a result of the new advice they received, because Im 
considering here GPFMs advice and not that of the new adviser. But I note that the 
index Ive proposed has an exposure to shares that falls within the range Mr and Mrs D 
say the new advice brought about in April 2020. So my proposal isnt on the face of it 
inconsistent with how they chose to proceed after taking fresh advice.Ive considered all of GPFMs other points but none of these change my view that GPFM 
is at fault and is responsible if it caused Mr and Mrs D loss. Ive arrived at that view for 
the reasons Ive already set out above.
Mr and Mrs D have said the fall in value was stressful. Ive found Mr and Mrs D were 
willing to take some risk with their investment, so it seems to me they wouldve suffered 
some falls in value and resulting stress in any event. But Im satisfied the riskier portfolio 
meant higher value fluctuations which wouldve increased this stress. Also they had the 
inconvenience of having to seek alternative advice to put things right. With these things 
in mind, my view is GPFM should pay Mr and Mrs D £350 to compensate for this 
distress and inconvenience.
So Im minded at present to uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint on the basis and to the 
extent that Ive outlined above, for the reasons Ive given above.
Mr and Mrs D indicated that they were willing to accept my provisional decision. GPFM 
rejected my provisional decision but made an offer of redress, without admission of liability, 
on a different basis. In summary GPFM said:
The decision to date has arisen mainly on the basis of the risk questionnaire on file when 
really this is only a starting point. The regulator even states in their assessing suitability 
finalised guidance that tools and questionnaires can help to provide structure and are 
useful to support discussions with a customer. GPFMs discussions with its clients went 
way beyond the answers on the questionnaire and they moved on to discuss in detail 
their lifestyle and income needs following their sale of the business and GPFM 
demonstrated how the lifestyle they wanted was achievable over the longer term.
Mr and Mrs Ds statement that we were encouraged to keep expenditure high is a 
complete fabrication. They completed the expenditure sheet outside of the meeting room 
and emailed it over, with no input from GPFM. 
GPFM rejects what the provisional decision says about Mr and Mrs D spending less and 
this not being fully discussed. There wasnt a need for Mr and Mrs D to spend less or to 
discuss them doing so. 
GPFM undertook a very professional and thorough financial planning exercise with 
Mr and Mrs D and it had not just sold them an investment product at the wrong risk 
level. It is clear Mr and Mrs D panicked during the pandemic. 
The provisional decision proposed a loss calculation based on a hypothetical index. 
GPFM understands this is often used when it is not possible to determine where the 
client would likely have alternatively invested. But had GPFM advised Mr and Mrs D to 
invest more cautiously, as suggested in the provisional decision, it would have advised 
them to invest in the risk level four portfolio product (portfolio 4) of [a named provider]. 
As such, using portfolio 4 to calculate loss is more appropriate and reflects the position 
Mr and Mrs D would now be in had GPFM advised them to invest at a lower level of risk. 
(GPFMs redress offer was based on this portfolio 4). 
Portfolio 4 is an investment strategy GPFM uses and used at the time. The provisional 
decision notes risk profiles three and four as where Mr and Mrs D should have been 
invested, making portfolio 4 a fairer method. Its current asset allocation is 44% bonds 
and 41% equity, so it also complies with Mr and Mrs Ds comment that they sold funds 
and reduced their equity to between 25% and 52% exposure and that this revised 
allocation fitted their agreed risk profile.To resolve the matter quickly, GPFMs offer uses an 8% growth rate from April 2020 
onwards, although it assumes Mr and Mrs Ds investments didnt return that amount 
since then and this growth rate doesnt appear fair and could be subject to challenge.
Mr and Mrs D didnt wish to accept GPFMs offer, so I informed the parties that as the 
complaint couldnt be resolved informally it was one that I would need to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive arrived at the same conclusions as those I reached in my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons.
In short, I dont agree with what Mr and Mrs D said about GPFMs charges being excessive. 
But I do think GPFMs advice was unsuitable because it led to the investment account being 
invested in funds carrying more investment risk than was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds risk 
appetite in their circumstances. I note what GPFM says about the risk questionnaire being 
only a starting point. My conclusion is based not only on the questionnaire but on the other 
discussions and factors which my provisional decision discussed and gave weight.
Ive considered what GPFM has said about using portfolio 4 as a benchmark, but Im not 
persuaded that this is most likely what GPFM wouldve recommended to Mr and Mrs D. I say 
this because when giving advice to Mr and Mrs D, GPFM didnt in either 2019 or 2018 use a 
portfolio product from this range with this product provider. Instead GPFM recommended a 
variety of funds managed by a variety of different managers. So although I have no reason 
to doubt GPFM when it says it does use portfolio 4, Im not persuaded this is most likely 
what it wouldve recommended to Mr and Mrs D upon appropriate advice in 2019.
To use portfolio 4 now rather than any of the other specific ways in which GPFM might have 
achieved an appropriate risk exposure, risks selecting a comparator influenced by hindsight. 
Also portfolio 4 was an investment exposed to the risk of one manager underperforming in a 
way GPFMs actual advice wasnt. The Income Index is based on allocations to various very 
broad-based underlying investment indices  and it isnt biased towards the performance or 
asset (or fund) selection of one particular manager.
With all this in mind, I remain of the view that it is fair and reasonable to use the Income 
Index in this case  for the reasons I gave in my provisional decision as set out above. My 
view that this is fair is reinforced by the fact that GPFMs alternative has an asset allocation, 
from what GPFM has highlighted, that isnt very far from the nature and asset allocation my 
provisional decision discussed the Income Index as having. 
GPFM says the portfolio wouldnt have returned 8% a year since April 2020, but losses or 
gains since then - which in my view is when loss caused by GPFMs advice crystallised - 
werent caused by GPFMs advice but by advice of a new adviser, so I havent adjusted the 
loss for that performance. In my view interest at the rate of 8% simple is a fair way in these 
circumstances to revalue loss to allow for the time that has passed since loss crystallised. 
So I uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint on the basis above and for the reasons Ive given. 
Putting things right
Fair compensationIn assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr and Mrs D as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs D would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs D's circumstances and objectives when 
they invested.
What must GPFM do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs D fairly, GPFM must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs D's investment (the investment account) with 
that of the benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and 
the actual value of the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. GPFM should also add any interest set out below to the 
compensation payable.
Pay to Mr and Mrs D £350 for distress caused by the value of the investment account 
falling by more than it would have done otherwise, and for the inconvenience of having 
to reorganise the investment account, including seeking fresh advice.
Repay the advisors £5000 fee together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date 
the fee was paid to the date of this final decision. If the above comparison shows that no 
compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the fair value can 
be offset against the fee with interest.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
The 
investment 
accountIn force but 
altered on 
30-04-2020 FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investment30-04-2020 
after the 
alterations 
made on 
that date8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of this 
final decision 
Actual value
This means the actual value of the investment account at the end date above.
Fair value
This is what the investment account would have been worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the investment account should be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. I understand from Mr and Mrs D that there werent any withdrawals but if instead there were a large number of regular withdrawals, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if GPFM totals all such payments and deducts that figure at 
the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs D wanted Capital growth initially, with a view to taking income later, and 
were willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would 
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher 
return than that available from an investment with less investment risk.
Ive explained above in my findings in detail why the investment mix within the index 
makes it a reasonable measure of what Mr and Mrs D might have got from a suitable 
investment given their circumstances and risk attitude. 
I have set out above the calculation of fair compensation. The interest that may also be due 
is only what falls due if settlement takes more than 28 days, as set out below.
Interest on my award
If GPFM takes more than 28 days to pay my award to Mr and Mrs D after receiving from 
us notification of their acceptance of my final decision, GPFM should pay simple interest 
to Mr and Mrs D on my award at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my final decision 
until the date GPFM pays the redress to Mr and Mrs D.  
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £355,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £355,000, I may recommend the business to pay 
the balance. 
Gerald Pepper Financial Management Limited should provide details of its calculation to 
Mr and Mrs D in a clear, simple format.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£355,000, I recommend that Gerald Pepper Financial Management Limited pays 
Mr and Mrs D the balance plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind 
Gerald Pepper Financial Management Limited. It is unlikely that Mr and Mrs D can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr and Mrs D may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider fair compensation should be 
calculated as set out above. My decision is Gerald Pepper Financial Management Limited 
should pay Mr and Mrs D the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of 
£355,000 (including distress or inconvenience) plus any interest set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman