DRN-3634031
The complaint
Mr T complains about the advice given by NTM Financial Services Ltd (NTM) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. 
He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ts employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said that if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Rs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
In November 2017, the DB scheme administrators sent Mr T information about his 
entitlement under his current DB scheme including a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) 
illustration. The CETV stated that Mr T had 22 years of pensionable service in the DB 
scheme and that the total transfer value of his benefits was £276,609.27.
Mr T approached NTM and an initial meeting was held on 11 December 2017 to discuss his 
options. NTM completed a joint fact-find with Mr and Mrs T to gather information about their 
circumstances and objectives along with undertaking an assessment of their attitude to risk. 
At that time Mr T was 49 years old and married to Mrs T who was 48 years old. They had 
two grown up non-dependent children. Both Mr and Mrs T were working and, as well as 
being a deferred member of the BSPS herself, Mrs T was an active member of her current 
employers workplace pension scheme. Mr and Mrs T owned their own home which was 
valued at £102,000 and was mortgage free. They also owned a second property valued at 
£85,000 on which had an outstanding mortgage of £36,000 which was due to be repaid in 
2022. It was also noted that they had no savings but that Mr T had credit card debt of 
£12,900 along with outstanding car finance of £5,000. Mrs T had outstanding car finance of 
£11,500. Mr T and his employer were contributing 16% of his salary per month to his 
employers new defined-contribution (DC) pension scheme. The fact-find also noted that 
Mr Ts attitude to risk was low to medium and that Mrs Ts was low. 
 
On 18 December 2017 NTM produced its joint suitability report, sending it to Mr and Mrs T 
on 22 December 2017. NTM recommended that Mr T transfer his DB scheme pension 
benefits into a personal pension and invest the proceeds with a provider I shall call A. The 
suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were because Mr and Mrs T 
wanted: -
the flexibility to take early retirement. Mr T wanted to retire at age 57 and Mrs T wanted 
to retire at age 55;
flexibility around how they took their income benefits in retirement;
to obtain the maximum tax-free cash (TFC) possible in order to fund higher expenditure 
in the early years of their retirement;
to take control of their pensions and avoid any further uncertainty or decline in their 
benefits;
a retirement income of £1,500 each;
to ensure their pension benefits werent lost on death and that they could both inherit a 
capital sum rather than receive a spouses pension that, in Mrs Ts case, would add to 
her taxable income, possibly tipping her into the higher rate income tax bracket;
to avoid their pension benefits moving to the PPF.
The suitability report recorded Mr and Mrs Ts attitude to risk as Average.
In the suitability report NTM also noted that the growth rates required (the critical yields) to 
match the benefits from Mr Ts DB scheme cannot be achieved for retirement at either age 
65 or age 55 by investing in line with his attitude to risk. 
A follow up meeting was held between NTM and Mr and Mrs T on 11 January 2018 to review 
the contents of the suitability report. On the same day Mr T signed the application forms to 
proceed with the transfer.
On 13 January 2022, Mr T complained to NTM about the suitability of the transfer advice he 
had received. Specifically he said that a personal pension was inferior to the guarantees and 
security offered by a DB scheme. 
NTM looked into Mr Ts complaint but didnt think that it had done anything wrong. It said the 
advice it gave him in 2017/2018 was regulatory compliant. And it said it had been unable to 
advise Mr T on transferring to BSPS2 because the date for opting into that scheme had 
expired prior to it providing its advice. NTM also said Mr Ts priority had been to have 
flexibility and control around how he took his pension benefits which a transfer to the PPF 
would not have facilitated. NTM said Mr Ts DC scheme wouldnt have provided this either 
because it wasnt projected to have a large enough fund value by the time Mr T reached age 
57. Finally, NTM said that the critical yields for the PPF were achievable for an investor 
(such as Mr T) with a balanced attitude to risk. 
Unhappy with the outcome of NTMs investigation into his complaint, Mr T complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ts complaint and 
recommended that it was upheld. He thought that the transfer wasnt financially viable and 
that there were no other compelling reasons which justified transferring Mr Ts DB scheme 
benefits to a personal pension plan. Our Investigator said NTM should undertake a redress 
calculation assuming that Mr T had moved to the PPF. If a loss was established, our 
Investigator recommended that NTM compensate Mr T in line with the regulators guidance 
on how to calculate redress in unsuitable DB transfer complaints. Our Investigator also 
recommended that NTM pay Mr T compensation of £250 for any distress and inconvenience 
caused.
NTM replied to our Investigator to say that it was prepared to carry out the redress 
calculation, without any admission of liability, in order to establish if Mr T had sustained a financial loss. It asked our Investigator to obtain some information from Mr T that it needed in 
order to be able to run the calculation. Mr T declined to provide the information NTM needed 
and said he preferred his complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
Because this complaint couldnt be resolved informally, the complaint was referred to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What follows below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at 
the time of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of NTMs actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, NTM should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ts 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his 
best interests.Financial viability 
NTM carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS)  as required by the regulator  
which showed how much Mr Ts pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to 
provide the same benefits as his DB scheme (known as the critical yield). NTMs TVAS 
showed two comparisons, the first with Mr Ts benefits from the BSPS and the second with 
his benefits if they moved to the PPF. 
When Mr T approached NTM for advice he had until 22 December 2017 to tell the trustees 
of the BSPS whether he wanted to opt into the BSPS2 (and until February 2018 to decide if 
he wanted to transfer out of his employers DB pension scheme altogether). NTM didnt send 
Mr T its suitability report until 22 December 2017 which was too late for him to read it before 
the deadline for opting into the BSPS2 passed. Mr T then met with NTM in January 2018 to 
discuss its recommendations by which time there were only two options open to him  
allowing his DB pension scheme to move to the PPF or to transfer it out to an alternative 
arrangement. Consequently, the only comparison within the TVAS of any real relevance was 
that which compared the benefits of transferring to a personal pension with the benefits 
provided by the PPF. 
Mr T was aged 49 at the time of the advice and he said he wanted to retire at age 57. In the 
TVAS, NTM didnt provide any comparison figures for retirement at age 57, instead giving 
them for age 55 (along with those for the schemes normal retirement date of age 65). NTM 
says this is because the DB scheme administrators didnt provide figures for age 57 but my 
understanding is that Mr Ts Time to Choose booklet set out a table of relevant factors that 
would have allowed NTM to calculate Mr Ts benefit entitlement from the BSPS2 and the 
PPF for any age between 55 and 64. Given that remaining in the BSPS was never an option 
for Mr T, I think that NTM should have run the calculation for him at his preferred retirement 
age of 57. As it didnt do so Ive referred below to the figures it did show at age 55 instead. 
In the suitability report, NTM said the critical yield to match the benefits available through the 
PPF at age 55 was 11.42% per year if Mr T took a full pension and 10.65% per year if he 
took TFC and a reduced pension. At the schemes normal retirement age of 65 the critical 
yields to match the benefits available through the PPF were 5.2% and 4.83% respectively. 
Prior to October 2017 the Financial Ombudsman Service published future 'discount rates' in 
loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Ill 
explain that a discount rate is a measure of what an investment is likely to grow at in the 
future. They provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. In Mr Ts case the discount rate for retirement at 
age 65  still over 15 years away - was 4.3%. That is below the rate required to match either 
the BSPS or PPF benefits. And that discount rate falls to 3.4% for early retirement at age 57 
and 3.1% for retirement at age 55. So, by taking early retirement at age 57, the gap between 
the critical yield required and the likely growth rate meant Mr T would likely be worse off by 
transferring to a personal pension and taking early retirement.
And I think that at the point at which it gave its advice, NTM agreed because in the suitability 
report it said that in transferring to a personal pension, the relevant critical yields in order to 
match the benefits of the DB scheme could not be achieved. In other words NTM recognised 
that transferring would most likely mean Mr T would be worse off in retirement by doing so. I 
agree with NTMs analysis here. 
I say that as well because Mr Ts funds if he retired at age 57 would have been invested in a 
personal pension for a shorter time before he accessed them and so would have had less 
time to grow. Those funds would also then have needed to support Mr T for a longer period 
in retirement. That means the investments would have needed higher returns to match the guaranteed benefits from the DB scheme from an earlier age. So whilst its arguable that the 
critical yields for the PPF at age 65 may have been achievable for someone with a 
medium/balanced attitude to risk the fact remains that Mr T said he wanted to take early 
retirement at age 57. So I consider the critical yields to match the benefits available through 
the PPF at age 55 more realistically reflect the annual investment growth Mr Ts personal 
pension would need to achieve just to match  let alone exceed  the benefits that would 
have been available to him through the PPF. 
So I think Mr T was likely to receive lower benefits than those offered by the PPF if he retired 
early at age 57 or even if he waited and retired at age 65. Transferring meant putting Mr Ts 
funds at risk for only a small possibility that he could be better off by doing so (and only if he 
deferred any retirement to age 65). And should Mr Ts funds not meet NTMs projected 
growth rates then Mr T was likely to be worse off in retirement. So I dont think NTM has 
been able to clearly demonstrate (as required by the regulator) that it was in Mr Ts best 
interests to transfer his DB scheme benefits to a personal pension. In any event, whatever 
age Mr T planned to retire at, I agree with NTMs assessment that he was likely to be 
financially worse off by transferring to a personal pension than he was from leaving his 
benefits in the DB scheme and letting them move into the PPF. For this reason alone I dont 
think a transfer was in Mr Ts best interests. So I've gone on to consider the other key 
reasons that NTM cited for recommending a transfer. 
Flexibility, income needs and early retirement
NTM said that transferring meant Mr T could retire early at age 57. But having considered 
the evidence here I dont think Mr T had a genuine need to access his pension funds earlier 
than the schemes normal retirement age of 65. Ill explain why. 
I can fully appreciate Mr Ts stated desire to retire early  most people would say they would 
like to do the same if given the chance. But I also think that the majority of people that said 
as much would understand that having the opportunity to retire early isnt worth 
compromising income security for the remainder of their retirement for. So I dont think its 
unreasonable to assume that Mr T would have reassessed his situation once he reached the 
age of 57. In fact Mr T is almost 57 now and told us he has no set early retirement date. So I 
think that early retirement was something that was most likely to be a nice to have rather 
than a genuine need. 
When faced with the prospect of a significant drop in income by taking early retirement, one 
that would reduce both spending power and lifestyle choices, most people elect not to do so. 
Instead they choose to keep working to support their current and future lifestyles. I think that 
was a more likely prospect for Mr T at the time of NTMs advice. But Ive seen no evidence 
that NTM challenged Mr Ts wish to retire at age 57. 
And whilst its true to say that Mr T couldnt have had the same level of flexible access to his 
DB funds as he could from a personal pension, and I can see that flexible access might have 
been an attractive prospect for him, Im not persuaded that Mr T had any concrete need to 
vary his income throughout retirement. But, if he believed he did, there was no requirement 
for him to give up the safeguarded benefits from his DB scheme in order to have some 
flexible access to retirement funds. I say this because by the time he was advised by NTM, 
Mr T (and his employer) were also paying into his employers DC scheme which, NTM has 
said, would have attained a fund value of around £53,000 by the time Mr T was aged 57. But 
should Mr T work beyond the age of 57 then that fund is likely to increase. 
The nature of a DC pension is such that it already provided Mr T with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take its benefits in a set way. Mr T could have taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr T retained his DB pension by moving into the PPF, this combined with his new workplace 
pension, would have likely given him the flexibility to retire early - if that was what he 
ultimately decided.
And while he could have chosen to take his pension from the PPF early, if he had wanted to 
take TFC, then he would have had to take that at the same time as drawing a regular income 
from his pension. Whereas the personal pension would allow Mr T to draw down funds as he 
saw fit. But while I can see why the flexibility associated with a personal pension might have 
been an attractive prospect for Mr T, Im not persuaded that he had any concrete need to 
take TFC at all. Ive seen reference to Mr T needing £20,000 some three years after the 
advice to assist with the cost of a wedding, but Mr T would only have been aged 52 by that 
point and unable to access any tax-free cash in any event. 
NTM also documented that Mr T wanted a retirement income of £1,500 per month. It said he 
couldnt achieve this by remaining in his DB scheme. Ive already said above that I dont 
think the transfer was a financially viable one for Mr T. It is also significant though that at the 
time of the advice, Mr T had eight years to go before his stated preferred retirement date. I 
can accept that with all the discussion around employers pension at the time, Mr T may 
have begun to think about his retirement plans but Im not persuaded from the evidence that 
Ive seen that they were set in stone. I say this for example because there is no evidence 
that Mr T had given any thought to his expenditure needs in retirement aside from citing a 
global figure of £1,500 per month and stating that he thought he would need more income in 
the early years of his retirement and less as he aged. 
NTM appears to have recommended that Mr T transfer his DB scheme benefits because he 
couldnt achieve his income objective of £1,500 per month by transferring to the PPF. But Im 
not persuaded that NTM did enough here to interrogate Mr Ts retirement income objective 
in order to determine whether or not it was realistic or achievable. Notably, NTM did not 
carry out an analysis of Mr Ts potential expenditure in retirement to determine whether or 
not £1,500 per month was what he actually needed in order to achieve his retirement goals. 
In the circumstances, and if it was having regard to Mr Ts information needs, I think that part 
of the analysis could have included what income Mr T could expect to receive from the PPF 
at age 60 so that he could see what effect delaying his retirement to that age would have on 
the income he could expect to receive. The outstanding balance on the mortgage on Mr and 
Mrs Ts second home was due to be cleared before Mr T reached age 55 as was their credit 
card debt. Taking both into account, NTM could then have explored how the pension paid by 
the PPF together with Mr Ts DC pension could have met his income needs at both ages 57 
and 65 (and preferably age 60 too). 
It was NTMs responsibility to determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed benefits 
associated with the PPF was in Mr Ts best interests. As part of this I think it was necessary 
to carry out this analysis. If NTM didnt think Mr Ts plans were realistic then it should have 
made that clear to him. That way he would have had the information he needed to make a 
fully informed decision and that includes the option to reconsider his target retirement 
income and his target retirement date. However, Im not persuaded this was carried out 
clearly such that I can reasonably conclude that NTM acted in Mr Ts best interests. 
Death benefits
Mr T told NTM that he thought a lump sum for his wife, should he die before her, would be 
more beneficial that the spouses benefit from the PPF (Mrs T had quite significant pension 
provision in her own right and Mr T was concerned that another pension would lead to her 
paying the higher rate of income tax). Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension were likely an attractive feature to Mr T. Thats because 
whatever was left of the personal pension fund on the date of his death would be passed to 
Mrs T. If that happened before Mr T retired, or shortly after, then that would likely be a 
significant sum. In contrast the PPF would pay Mrs T half of Mr Ts yearly pension 
entitlement after he died. But that pension would die with her so Mrs T wouldnt be able to 
leave it as legacy for her children. 
But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr T might have 
thought it was a good idea to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, 
the priority here was to advise Mr T about what was best for his retirement provisions. A 
pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. But in transferring out of his 
DB scheme, Mr T was essentially giving up a guaranteed, index linked, increasing income in 
retirement in exchange for a potential lump sum that his family may never receive. And if 
Mr T lived a long life, his pension fund could have been considerably depleted, meaning 
there would be little by way of a legacy in any event. 
I dont think NTM explored to what extent Mr T was prepared to accept a lower retirement 
income in exchange for higher death benefits. I also think the existing death benefits 
attached to the PPF were underplayed. In fact NTMs suitability report doesnt refer to the 
PPF death benefits at all, only quoting Mrs Ts entitlement from the DB scheme. It is worth 
commenting that the death benefits from the PPF arent as generous as those provided by 
the DB scheme. For example, the PPF doesnt provide any form of capital lump sum on 
death. But because Mr T had lost the entitlement to the DB scheme benefits by the time he 
received NTMs suitability report I think NTM should have included an explanation in the 
report about what the PPFs death benefits were; however it didnt do so. 
Regardless of any inferiority in the death benefits offered by the PPF in comparison to those 
from the BSPS I dont think this justifies a recommendation to transfer Mr Ts DB scheme 
benefits to a personal pension.
Mr T was married, so the spouses pension provided by the PPF scheme wouldve been 
useful to Mrs T in the event of his death. It was guaranteed and it escalated  it was not 
dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal 
pension was. And there may not have been a large sum left in the personal pension if Mr T 
lived a long life, or he took large sums from it in early retirement, or if his investments 
suffered a prolonged period of poor performance.  In any event, NTM should not have 
encouraged Mr T to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement. 
And whilst Ive noted Mr Ts concern about any spouses pension from the PPF leading to 
Mrs T becoming a higher rate taxpayer, Ive seen no detailed analysis of her pension 
entitlement such that I can reasonably conclude that this was likely to be the case. And it 
appears from NTMs meeting notes from its meeting with Mr and Mrs T on 11 January 2018 
that it did not have full details of [Mrs Ts] WPP benefits to provide an accurate assessment 
of future income available to her at age 55 either. So is unclear to me where the concern 
that any spouses pension would tip Mrs T into the higher rate income tax band emanated 
from. There certainly is no analysis of Mrs Ts potential retirement income that Ive seen that 
indicates that such a situation was realistic possibility. All I can see from the suitability report 
was that Mrs Ts BSPS pension was likely to provide her with an income in retirement from 
her preferred retirement age of 55 of just over £9,000 per year if she took the maximum tax 
free cash. I know also that she is a member of her current employers DB scheme. But 
whether her own combined pension entitlement, coupled with a spouses pension from the PPF, would be sufficient to make her a higher rate taxpayer is not something Im reasonably 
able to conclude was likely.  
Furthermore, if Mr Ts concern about wanting to leave a lump sum legacy was genuine one, 
then NTM should have reminded him that he had death in service cover from his employer of 
four times his salary which would be paid to his nominated beneficiary in the event he died 
whilst still in employment. And it knew Mr T was paying into a DC scheme where he would 
have been able to nominate beneficiaries for this plan too (if he hadnt already done so). 
Alternatively, if Mr T wanted to leave a legacy for Mrs T and his children, which didnt 
depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death then 
life insurance may have met his needs. 
Ive noted that NTM did look into the cost of life insurance which its suitability report said 
would cost Mr T £273 a month. NTM didnt think that was viable on the grounds of cost. But I 
dont think that NTM presented this option in a balanced way. I say that because NTM based 
the quote on the full transfer value of Mr Ts DB scheme which essentially assumes that he 
will die on day one after the transfer which isnt, in my view, a realistic way to look at it. 
Ultimately, Mr T wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his wife or children 
which would be a lot less than the full transfer value if he lived a long life or if investment 
returns were poor. So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr T how much he would 
ideally like to leave to his wife and children, and how much he could afford to pay each 
month. Insurance on this basis was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide and would have 
enabled him to leave a legacy without risking his retirement income. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the risk attached to transferring Mr Ts pension. And I dont think NTM did 
enough to highlight the value of the death benefits associated with the PPF or to explore the 
alternatives available to him. 
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
I understand that Mr T, like many of his colleagues probably felt at the time, was concerned 
about his pension and specifically it ending up in the PPF. So its possible Mr T was leaning 
towards the decision to transfer his DB scheme benefits to a personal pension because of 
the concerns he had. But it was NTMs responsibility to provide Mr T with an objective 
viewpoint and recommend what was in his best interests. 
While I can see that NTM said in the suitability report that the PPF provides excellent 
protection and would secure most of the income you desire, in my view, NTM subsequently 
went on to somewhat undermine this statement because it went on to say that the PPF 
wouldnt meet Mr Ts stated objectives of flexibility, the ability to tax-plan using the tax-free 
cash and for lump sum death benefits. 
But I think NTM should have done more to reassure Mr T that his DB scheme moving to the 
PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or had been led to believe. It would have still given 
him the option to take early retirement, if that was something he ultimately decided he 
wanted to do. I think the income available to Mr T through the PPF would have provided him 
with a solid base which his DC scheme, and ultimately his state-pension, could supplement 
to likely meet his overall income need in retirement. But I think, most significantly, Mr T was 
unlikely to be able to exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment 
in the PPF were lower, the income it provided was guaranteed and was free from investment 
risk. Mr T would have course been unable to have transferred out of the PPF at a later date 
but, given what I have mentioned about him already having flexibility, I dont think that there 
was any need for him to do so. So I dont think that Mr Ts concerns about the PPF were a suitable or compelling reason for 
NTM to recommend he transfer out of the DB scheme to a personal pension. 
I also think Mr Ts desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr T was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on his own. So, I dont think that this was a genuine 
objective for Mr T  it was simply a consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme. It 
seems to me that Mr Ts stated desire for control related more to moving his pension away 
from an employer that he didnt trust than to any resolution on his part to begin to manage 
his investment. In any event, Mr T was not intending to leave his employment and his DC 
pension remained connected to his employer  so transferring out of the scheme didnt 
achieve a break from his employer. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr T. But NTM 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr T might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr T needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr T was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr T was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. So I think NTM should have advised Mr T to remain in 
his DB scheme. 
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr T would've gone ahead anyway, against NTMs 
advice. Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr Ts concerns about the 
PPF were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional 
adviser, whose expertise he had sought out, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best 
interests. I say this too because Mr T was an inexperienced investor with an average 
attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision. So, if 
NTM had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think NTM should compensate Mr T for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Finally, like our Investigator, I agree that NTM should pay Mr T compensation of £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience its unsuitable advice about his pension has caused him. Mr T 
has said that he has suffered stress and worry about his pension. Where a financial 
business, through its words or deeds, causes a consumer trouble or upset, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service can require it to pay compensation. Ive thought about what this means 
for Mr T and Im satisfied that an award of £250 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of his complaint and in line with the Financial Ombudsman Services approach to awards of 
this nature in general.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr T as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr T would most 
likely have remained in the occupational pension scheme and moved with it to the PPF if 
suitable advice had been given. NTM must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
NTM should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy 
of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr T and the Financial Ombudsman Service 
upon completion of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what NTM based the 
inputs into the calculator on. 
For clarity, Mr T has not yet retired, and Mr T has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4 NTM should:
calculate and offer Mr T redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr T before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr T receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr T accepts NTMs offer to calculate how much of his redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr T for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, given 
the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ts end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr T as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, NTM may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to 
take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. 
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have 
been taxed according to Mr Ts likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. 
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require NTM Financial 
Services Ltd to pay Mr T the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £170,000.NTM Financial Services Ltd should also pay Mr T compensation of £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience its unsuitable advice caused him.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
NTM Financial Services Ltd pays Mr T the balance.
If Mr T accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on NTM Financial Services 
Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr T can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr T may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman