DRN-1723780
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link Financial) wont accept the 
offer he made to settle a debt related to his current account.
What happened
Mr Gs debt with a bank was sold to Link Financial. Mr G made an offer to settle the debt. 
However, Link Financial didnt accept the offer.
Mr G complained to Link Financial. It replied and said that it found Mr Gs settlement 
proposal to be invalid because the amount offered required Link Financial to remove the 
default from his credit file. It said it couldnt remove the default.
Mr G complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint he thought Link 
Financial had acted reasonably. It had explained the reason for its decision and was 
required to report accurately to credit agencies, which included not removing the default from 
the account, as it was correct.
As Mr G did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mr G had another complaint with this service, which has already been resolved. In 
that complaint, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint and found that the bank had 
sold the debt to Link Financial and the debt amount at the time of the sale of the debt was 
£1,650.92. The complaint was then closed by this service. I therefore wont be revisiting that 
point and will be making my decision on the basis that the debt amount that Link Financial 
asked Mr G to pay is correct.
Ive listened to the phone call where Mr G made an offer to pay the debt. In that call, he said 
that he was only willing to pay the original debt amount of £1,413.68, not the higher amount 
of £1,650.92, as this was incorrect. The call handler said they would check with the bank that 
sold Link Financial the debt whether it was the correct amount. Mr G also said that there 
shouldnt be a default on his account before the debt was sold to Link Financial. The call 
handler then passed the call to a manager as Mr G wanted to raise a complaint.
When Mr G spoke to the manager, he again raised the issue of the default and said that Link 
Financial had backdated the default to before the bank had sold it the debt. Mr G made an 
offer to pay £1 per month, in which case the default could be left on his file or he would pay 
£1,413.68, but the default needed to be removed from his credit file. The manager said that 
the offer would be referred to the settlement team, but that the default needed to be on the 
credit file.
When Link Financial responded to Mr Gs complaint it said that it had checked and 
confirmed that the default had been applied to the account by the bank that sold it the debt 
before the debt was assigned to Link Financial. It said that it couldnt remove the default 
from Mr Gs credit file, as it was obliged to report factual information to the Credit Reference 
Agencies. It said that if Mr G was to make settlement payment towards the account that it 
would be required to update the credit file as partially settled as the full amount wouldnt 
have been paid. Link Financial also said that if Mr G wanted to dispute the default that it 
would need to do so with the bank that sold it the debt.
The issue here is whether Mr Gs offer to pay £1,413.68 on the condition that the default was 
removed from his account was a reasonable offer that Link Financial should have potentially 
accepted. Having thought about this, Ive concluded that it wasnt. Ive looked at the default 
and the evidence provided by Link Financial shows that the default was applied by the bank 
that sold it the debt. Ive no reason to think that this default was incorrectly applied or that it 
shouldnt be on Mr Gs credit file.
So, I cant see that Link Financial was in a position to consider Mr Gs offer in any detail. Mr 
Gs said that his offer was only made on the basis of the default being removed from his 
credit file. But Link Financial wasnt able to get the default removed from Mr Gs credit file. 
This was because it was under a duty to correctly report to credit reference agencies and it 
had no basis on which to approach the credit reference agencies to try and make the 
change.
In my view, once Link Financial had considered the credit file point and concluded that it 
couldnt do as Mr G asked, there wasnt then a valid offer of payment to consider. So on that 
basis, I think it was reasonable that Link Financial decided that it couldnt consider the offer. I 
also think that it explained its reasons for its decision when it responded to Mr Gs complaint 
and that it also made it clear that £1,413.68 would only be a partial payment, as it wasnt for 
the whole amount owed.
Having thought about all the above, I think that Link Financial considered the offer as much 
as it was able to do so, but I dont think it could do any more than it did because of the 
condition that Mr G put on it. So, I dont uphold this complaint or require Link Financial to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2020.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman