DRN-3780746
The complaint
Miss P is a sole trader. She has complained about the impact of China Taiping Insurance
(UK) Co Ltd incorrectly declining her business interruption insurance claim and about the
amount they paid after applying an average clause.
What happened
Miss P held business interruption insurance with China Taiping. She claimed on her policy
after her business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the
pandemic.
China Taiping declined Miss Ps claim as they didnt think there was cover under the policy.
Unhappy with China Taipings response, Miss P brought her complaint to our service. Miss P
said that as a result of China Taiping incorrectly declining her claim she had to relinquish her
successful business and has been left without an income.
Miss P said that prior to the pandemic, she had intended to run her business for another five
years before selling it. She said that, at that time, the business had been valued between
£300,000 and £350,000. However, she said that she had now had to give the business
away, with an agreement from the purchaser that it would pay her £150,000 after three years
if the business generated enough income.
While we were looking into things, China Taiping reviewed Miss Ps claim following the
Supreme Court judgment in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Business Interruption
Insurance test case.
In light of that judgment, China Taiping accepted the policy provided cover but, after
calculating her losses, said that Miss P was underinsured. They said that Miss Ps sum
insured was £53,950 but, based on the previous 12 months, it should have been around
£180,000. Therefore, China Taiping reduced Miss Ps claim proportionately and offered her
£20,526.68.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ps complaint. He thought China Taiping had offered a fair
amount to settle her claim but thought they should have done so sooner. He also thought the
delay in settling the claim had caused Miss P distress and inconvenience, although he didnt
think hed seen enough to conclude that the loss of her business was due to China Taiping
not paying her claim. Therefore, he recommended China Taiping add interest to the
settlement amount at 8% simple and pay Miss P an additional £750 for her distress and
inconvenience.
Miss P didnt think this was enough to compensate her for her losses.
China Taiping didnt think they should pay interest from the start of the claim due to having
waited for the outcome of the test case. They also said Miss P could have accepted the
settlement in June 2021 so didnt think they should pay interest past that date.
As neither party agreed, the complaint was been passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 October 2022 partly upholding this 
complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss P has made a number of detailed points. I have considered them all, but I dont intend
to address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I consider to be the central
issues to this complaint. This reflects the informal nature of our service.
Underinsurance
China Taiping have said that Miss P was underinsured, as the sum insured under her policy
was significantly less than the true amount. Because of this, they applied the average clause
in the policy which says that where the value of property is found to be more than the sum
insured, a policyholder is only entitled to claim a proportion of the sum insured. I have
therefore considered whether its fair and reasonable for China Taiping to apply the average
clause. In doing so, I will take account of the relevant law as well as what is fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances.
China Taiping said that they based the sum insured in March 2020 on the previous years
sum insured, with some additional amount due to index linking.
Miss Ps policy is a commercial one so the law that applies here is the Insurance Act 2015
(the Act). When considering a complaint where underinsurance is alleged, before
considering the policy terms, I must first consider the Act. Under the Act a commercial
customer has a duty to make a fair presentation of the risk to the insurer. In order to fulfil a
fair presentation of risk, the Act says a commercial policyholder must disclose everything
they know, or ought to know, that would influence the judgment of an insurer in deciding
whether to insure the risk and on what terms. If it is found that they didnt fulfil this duty then
in order to say there has been a qualifying breach, the insurer needs to show that it would
have either not offered the policy at all, or offered it on different terms.
So, Ive first considered whether Miss P made a fair presentation of the risk. The policy
schedule sets out that Miss Ps sum insured is £53,950.
China Taipings analysis of Miss Ps accounts indicate that she should have insured a sum
of £180,000. Ive reviewed China Taipings calculations and they look reasonable and I
havent seen anything to indicate there was an error in how they were calculated. I have also
noted that Miss P said her loss of turnover for the time her business was closed exceeded
the sum insured by around £20,000.
When asked why shed given a sum insured of £53,950 Miss P was unsure. She said her
broker provided the sums to the insurer and this must have come from previous years when
the sum she needed to insure was lower.
As Miss Ps sum insured wasnt adequate I dont think she made a fair presentation of the
risk. Therefore, Ive considered what China Taiping would have done differently if she had.
China Taiping have confirmed that if Miss P had made a fair presentation of the risk they
would have charged £270 for the business interruption cover on the policy instead of £80.92.
As they would have done something differently, Miss P has made whats known as a
qualifying breach. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Miss P deliberately or recklessly
didnt make a fair presentation of the risk so, under the Act, China Taiping would be able to
reduce Miss Ps claim proportionately to the amount shed underpaid on her policy.Where a term in the policy puts a policyholder in a worse position than they would have been
under the Act, I would usually go on to consider whether the insurer made that sufficiently
clear at the time it sold the policy. However, in this case Miss P has not been put in a worse
position by China Taiping applying the average clause. By either remedy, Miss P would
receive 30% of the settlement. This is because Miss P paid 30% of the premium she should
have paid and insured 30% of the sum she should have insured. So in this case I think its
fair for China Taiping to apply the average clause and Im not going to require them to
increase the amount they paid on the claim.
Consequential losses
Miss P has explained that she had to give away her business as she was in debt due to
China Taiping not paying her claim and I can see from emails sent at the time that Miss P
said she needed the claim to be paid to settle her debts. I understand that Miss P has
received some money for her business, and she may receive more after three years.
If China Taiping had paid Miss P what they should have done in 2020 she would have been
able to pay just under half of the debts shes referred to. Miss P has demonstrated that her
son would have been able to lend her some more money, but Im not persuaded that this
means she wouldnt have gone on to sell her business. I note that the area in which Miss Ps
business was based suffered a second lockdown shortly after the first which I think would
have impacted her business.
Given the level of underinsurance and the effects of the pandemic in general, I havent seen
enough to persuade me that the loss of Miss Ps business was primarily as a result of China
Taipings error, or that the loss of around £150,000 which she believes China Taiping are
responsible for couldnt have been mitigated further. Therefore, I dont intend to make an
award for this.
I do, however, think that China Taiping should have paid Miss Ps claim sooner. Whilst I
appreciate the difficulties insurers faced with claims of this nature, the clarity provided by the
courts in the test case has shown that Miss P had a valid claim and that China Taipings
decision to decline this in 2020 was incorrect.
My role is to consider what a business might or might not have done wrong and to put a
customer back in the position they would have been in had things happened as they should
have. Because China Taiping turned down Miss Ps claim, she was without funds that she
should have had, and I believe that it is fair and reasonable to compensate her for that
financial loss by adding interest to the settlement.
In relation to an ongoing claim of this nature, it is reasonable that an insurer waits for losses
to accrue before making settlement. However, it is not necessarily reasonable that an insurer
waits for the end of an indemnity period before making settlement. Generally speaking, I
would expect regular monthly payments to be made.
It is also reasonable that an insurer will need some time to assess any claim and make a
settlement. I consider a reasonable time to do this on a claim of this nature would be around
a month from when Miss P made her claim on 3 April 2020.
China Taiping clearly set out their offer of around £20,000 and the reasons for this in a letter
to Miss P dated 24 June 2021. As I think this amount was a fair settlement offer, I dont think
it would be fair and reasonable for me to require China Taiping to pay interest past that date,
as Miss P could have accepted the money at that time and didnt need to incur a further
loss.Therefore, I think it would be fair and reasonable for China Taiping to add interest at our
usual rate of 8% simple per annum for the first months loss from one month after the claim
was made (3 April 2020), the second months loss from two months after the claim was
made and so on until 24 June 2021.
Distress and inconvenience
Miss Ps claim being declined and then an incorrect settlement applied has clearly had a
significant impact on Miss P. She had the worry that her claim wasnt going to be paid while
facing significant business debts. Miss P told our service that this made her physically unwell
and impacted her mental health. As such, I think it would be fair and reasonable for China
Taiping to compensate her for this.
I understand that Miss P doesnt think £750 is enough given the impact of this on her and the
fact that shes had to give up her business. However, as explained above, Im not persuaded
that the loss of Miss Ps business was due to China Taiping not paying her claim sooner. I
also have to bear in mind that the underinsurance and other losses caused by the pandemic
would have contributed to Miss Ps distress and inconvenience during this time. With that in
mind, I think £750 is a fair and reasonable amount for China Taiping to pay Miss P for her
distress and inconvenience.
Both Miss P and China Taiping accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accepted my decision I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
Putting things right
It remains that the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for China Taiping to pay 
Miss P:
£20,526.68 to settle her claim if they havent already done so.
Interest on the settlement at 8% simple per annum for the first months loss from one
            month after the claim was made (3 April 2020), the second months loss from two
            months after the claim was made and so on until 24 June 2021 to compensate for
            Miss Ps financial loss.
£750 for her distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint and require China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd to pay Miss P as set 
out in the Putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman