The complaint
Mrs B, who is represented by her husband, Mr B, complains that the range of an electric car 
funded by PSA Finance UK Limited is lower than advertised.
What happened
Mrs B acquired an electric car which was advertised as lasting up to 93 miles in a full 
charge . Mr B says they didnt expect to achieve this and that they were informed by the 
salesman that 83 miles a charge was possible in the real world. They say that in reality they 
only achieved around 64 to 66 miles and they took the car back to the dealer on three 
occasions. It could find no fault. It achieved a range of around 70 miles. 
Mrs B complained to PSA. It said no fault had been established with the car. It said the 
advertised range was that established under the New European Driving Cycle (NEDC) and 
this allows for comparisons to be made between cars. This testing regime, which has been 
superseded, was carried out in laboratory conditions. It said that the actual range would 
depend on a variety of factors such as driving style, speed, climactic conditions etc. It 
concluded by saying that the advertised range didnt claim that it would be achieved in all 
circumstances.
Mr B brought his wifes complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who recommended it be upheld. He explained that to be satisfied a 
misrepresentation had occurred there had to be a false statement of fact made and this 
induced Mrs B into buying the car. He was satisfied that Mrs Bs testimony showed that she 
had been influenced by the advertised range when she made a comparison with other 
similar cars. 
He noted the maximum range achieved by Mrs B was some 63 miles and the dealer only 
managed 73 miles when testing the car. He accepted that it is reasonable to expect the 
achievable mileage to be lower than advertised, but not as low as what Mrs B had 
experienced. As the supplying dealership had confirmed there was no fault with the car, he 
was satisfied there had been a misrepresentation of the range.
He informed Mrs B that he could recommend rejection of the car, but she said that she 
wished to keep it and so he suggested that PSA should:
refund 5% of the payments Mrs B had made under the hire purchase agreement,
from the start of the agreement, until the end of its term
apply 8% simple interest to the partial refund of instalments from the date the
payments were made until the date they are refunded
pay £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
DRN-1709132PSA accepted this decision, but Mr B said that he and his wife had been inconvenienced by 
the lower than expected range and it had had a significant impact on their travelling 
arrangements. They felt greater recompense was merited. However, they reiterated that they 
wished to retain the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has been agreed by all parties that the car was misrepresented in that the range used in 
the advertising wasnt achievable on the road. The old NEDC test was carried out in 
laboratory conditions which didnt replicate everyday use and it has been discontinued. It 
was used widely and was helpful in making comparisons. It follows that the advertised 
ranges of the competitor cars considered by Mrs B may also have been overstated. I can 
see that the quoted figure of maximum range was potentially misleading and while I am not 
as convinced as others that it was the cause of misrepresentation I dont propose to unravel 
what has already accepted by all the parties.
I can see from the testimony of Mr and Mrs B that the range of the car was something to 
which they gave consideration and it was a material factor in the decision to acquire the car. 
That said it doesnt seem to be such an issue as to cause them to wish to give up the car. 
Rather than take this option and unwind the agreement leaving Mrs B free to acquire a more 
suitable car they wish to keep it and have recently paid the final balloon payment so now it 
belongs to them.
As such I dont consider that significant compensation is merited. Mrs B has suffered some 
distress and inconvenience for which she should be compensated. I am not aware of any 
financial loss caused by the reduced range other than the requirement to hire a car for 
longer journeys. Therefore, I consider the investigators proposal is suitable
My Final Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct PSA Finance UK Limited to:
refund 5% of the payments Mrs B has made under the hire purchase agreement,
from the start of the agreement, until the end of its term including the final balloon
payment
apply 8% simple interest to the partial refund of instalments and the final balloon
payment from the date the payments were made until the date they are refunded
pay her £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman