DRN-3696198
The complaint
Mr H complained about how Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) handled his removals 
insurance claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill just provide an 
overview of the relevant key events here. 
Mr H took out Single Shipment Cargo insurance online, via a third-party website, in early 
August 2020 with cover due to start two days later. Zurich was the underwriter of the policy. 
The sum insured was £10,000 and a total of 46 items were listed on the policy schedule, 
including eight pieces of artwork, several pieces of furniture, household appliances and 
boxes of miscellaneous items. 
Mr H contacted Zurich the day after the policy started and said damage had been caused to 
one of the pieces of art - a 17th Century painting  during the move the previous day. He 
submitted a claim to Zurich for a damaged canvas and a damaged frame. He estimated the 
total value of the piece of art at £9,500.
Mr H complained to Zurich in October 2020 about being asked to provide purchase receipts 
for the damaged items. He thought it was Zurichs responsibility to arrange for the damaged 
items to be assessed and valued. Zurich responded on 16 October 2020 and said Mr H 
needed to provide evidence of ownership and the value of the items before a settlement 
could be offered. Mr H wasnt happy with the response, so he brought a complaint to this 
Service. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She said it was a consumers responsibility 
to demonstrate they suffered a loss that was covered by the policy. 
Mr H and Zurich remained in contact, in order to progress the claim, while his complaint was 
being looked at by this Service. Mr H made further complaints to Zurich, but our Investigator 
was only able to look into how Zurich had dealt with the claim up until the point it issued its 
final response letter on 16 October 2020. So our Investigator set up a new and separate 
complaint to look into the complaint points Mr H raised after that final response letter. Its 
these more recent complaint points that are the subject of this decision. 
In November 2020 Mr H was able to provide Zurich with purchase receipts showing the 
canvas and frame had been purchased for £4,690 and £4,940, so a total of £9630.
At around this time Zurich informed Mr H that it appeared he might have been underinsured. 
Zurich said Mr H had claimed for two items which he had initially estimated had cost him 
£9,500. Zurich said Mr H was insured for £10,000 in total and it thought it was unlikely the 
remaining 44 items were valued at £500 or less. Zurich asked Mr H to provide a valuation for 
the remaining items. It also told Mr H that he needed to obtain a repair quotation to ascertain 
the cost of restoring the damaged items.  
Mr H told Zurich that the insured amount was generated by its own system, so if he was 
underinsured then it was solely its responsibility. Mr H said it was for Zurich to arrange and 
pay for restorer quotations and added he would not accept a restoration that devalued the 
damaged items. 
Zurich arranged for a surveyor to visit Mr Hs home in January 2021 in order to estimate the 
cost of a repair to the damaged items. Following the visit, Zurich agreed that the canvas and 
frame were beyond economical repair and offered to settle the claim based on the 
replacement value. 
Mr H complained about the visit, as he felt the contractor had broken the law in relation to 
Covid restrictions that were in place at the time. Mr H also told Zurich that he valued the 
remaining 44 items on the policy schedule at £200. 
Zurich responded and said it didnt think the surveyors visit breached government 
guidelines. But Zurich acknowledged that its surveyors contact with Mr H didnt always meet 
its own service standards and offered £250 compensation. It also said that although Mr H 
believed the website pre-populated the sum insured, this was not the case  the value of the 
items was entered by Mr H. Zurich said as Mr H hadnt provided detailed information 
regarding the value of the remaining items, it estimated the total value of the items insured at 
£70,000 but said this could be reassessed if Mr H provided a detailed itemised list as 
requested.
Zurich said that as it considered the total value of the items covered by the policy was 
£70,000, this meant Mr H was underinsured. It said when a consumer is underinsured then 
any claim settlement is proportionately reduced, in line with the terms of the policy, so it was 
only liable for a proportion of the cost of the damaged items. Zurich said it calculated its 
liability at £1,375.71, less the excess of £250. So it offered to pay £1,125.71 to settle 
Mr Hs claim. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. Mr H didnt agree with what our Investigator 
said, so this came to me for a decision. 
I contacted Zurich and was provided with more information about how it arrived at the 
£70,000 valuation. I am now in a position to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first of all want to be clear about what I am addressing in this decision. Mr H raised a 
complaint about Zurichs handling of this claim in October 2020. That complaint was 
considered separately by this Service and covered complaint points addressed by Zurich in 
its final response dated 16 October 2020. This decision is not looking at that earlier 
complaint. At this stage the crux of Mr Hs complaint is about Zurichs decision to apply the 
underinsurance clause and proportionately reduce the settlement amount from £9,630 to 
£1,125.71.
I note that Mr H thought it was unfair for Zurich to apply the underinsurance clause as he 
said he didnt choose the amount of insurance cover bought by him. He said the amount of 
£10,000 was generated by the website. So Ive first of all considered this. 
However, Zurich has provided information that suggests it isnt the case that the website 
generated the amount of £10,000. It said that at the application stage Mr H was asked to please enter the value of your goods. Zurich said an amount of £5,000 appears as a 
default, as its premium package includes £5,000 worth of cover. It said if the amount entered 
here is changed from £5,000, then only the consumer taking out the policy could have made 
that change. 
Having seen the application information provided by Zurich Im satisfied that the amount of 
£10,000 could only have been entered by Mr H and so the amount of cover he was provided 
with is the amount of cover he chose. In any event, I cant see that Mr H has suggested he 
wanted more than this amount of cover, and he has valued the items covered by the policy 
at just under £10,000. So it would seem the amount of cover provided is the amount of cover 
Mr H wanted.  
Zurich has looked to value all of the items covered under Mr Hs policy, as its concerned he 
is underinsured. Mr H doesnt think Zurich should be able to apply its own valuation to his 
property. 
When a consumer applies for an insurance policy, the insurer will charge a premium thats in 
line with the sum insured  so a higher sum insured will mean a higher premium is charged, 
as a higher premium reflects the greater risk taken on by the insurer. So if a consumer has 
undervalued the items being covered, then they might not have paid the correct premium 
and an insurer can consider whether to apply an underinsurance clause, if such a clause is 
in the insurance contract. Just such a clause is in the contract between Mr H and Zurich. 
Under the title Underinsurance it says: 
If the value of any subject-matter insured calculated in accordance with the applicable 
basis of valuation is at the time of the damage greater than the relevant limit of indemnity we 
will only pay the proportion of the damage which such limit of indemnity bears to the value of 
the subject-matter insured. 
I think Zurich acted fairly when it decided to consider whether Mr H was underinsured and 
whether it might be fair to apply the underinsurance clause to his claim. I say this because 
two of the 46 items covered by the policy  the two items that were the subject of the claim  
were valued at £9,630, and this meant that the remaining 44 items would have to be valued 
at £370 or less for Mr H to have taken out adequate cover. I can see why Zurich might 
question whether the remaining items, which include electrical items, furniture and pieces of 
art, were valued at £370 or less. 
So I think it was reasonable for Zurich to have concerns about whether Mr H was 
underinsured and to query the value of the remaining 44 items. 
Zurich asked Mr H to provide it with a valuation of the remaining items. For instance, in 
March 2021 it asked Mr H whether he could provide invoices and photographs of the items, 
including the make and model. It also asked him to confirm the contents of the numerous 
boxes listed on the schedule. Zurich drew up a spreadsheet for Mr H to complete. 
In one of the emails sent by Mr H in response he said As your [sic] asking me to make a 
guess at the value of the other items listed, I would put that figure at £200 in total. Mr H said 
the items were all second hand and he didnt have any purchase receipts. So Mr H is saying 
he doesnt have any evidence available to substantiate his valuation. However, I note Mr H 
declined to provide some information requested by Zurich to allow it to check whether the 
valuation was correct. I think some of this information, such as the make and/or model of 
some of the items, a detailed outline of the miscellaneous items in boxes and further 
information about the origin and cost of the items listed as pieces of art would have been 
available to Mr H.  I think its highly unlikely the remaining 44 items were worth, in total, £200. Ive seen the list 
of personal possessions Mr H sought cover for including a television, two fridge freezers, a 
sofa and seven other pieces of artwork. There were also numerous boxes, the contents of 
which were not known. I note that Mr H had taken out insurance cover for eight pieces of art 
and just one of these (being claimed for as a canvas and frame) was valued at around 
£9,630. I think it seems implausible that the remaining pieces of art were worth so little 
because if they were almost valueless, as Mr H says, its unlikely he would have listed them 
as pieces of art on the policy schedule.
So given that it seems likely that the remaining 44 items covered under Mr Hs policy were 
worth substantially more than £200 and that Mr H declined to provide information about the 
remaining items to Zurich  and its for Mr H to provide this information  I think it was 
reasonable for Zurich to say it didnt agree with his valuation and to apply its own valuation 
to the items.  
Zurich valued all of the 46 items covered by Mr Hs policy at £70,000. So Ive looked at 
whether this valuation is fair, and Im satisfied it is. Ill explain why. 
As already mentioned, I can see that Mr H has claimed for one of the eight pieces of art that 
were covered under the policy. And this one piece of art, including the frame, was valued at 
£9,630. It seems unlikely that the only piece of art of any real value was the damaged one 
and so, in the absence of any other evidence providing a plausible valuation for the 
remaining pieces of art, I think its fair to apply the same valuation to them as has been 
applied to the piece of art and frame that Mr H claimed for. As I say, I think its fair to say that 
if the other seven pieces of art were almost valueless, as Mr H says they are, then its 
unlikely he would have listed them as pieces of art on the policy schedule. So I think it 
would be fair to value all eight pieces of art at around £77,000 in total. 
There are also other household items including furniture and electrical goods listed on the 
policy schedule, and numerous boxes presumably containing smaller items. Its difficult to 
value these items, in particular the unknown items in the boxes. However, I dont think I need 
to look at valuing these items now. This is because Zurich has settled on a valuation of 
£70,000 for all items. So, given that I think its fair to say the pieces of art are valued at 
around £77,000, I think Zurich acted fairly here when its valued all of the goods on Mr Hs 
policy schedule at £70,000.
In situations where a business has applied an underinsurance clause, this Service will 
consider what the outcome would have been if Zurich had taken the steps outlined in the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This is because 
CIDRA is the relevant law that applies here and takes precedence over the terms of the 
policy. 
CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided the insurer has 
asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to answer questions 
accurately  and whether a consumer has taken reasonable care is determined in the light of 
all the relevant circumstances  it sets out the remedies available to the insurer. The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
In order to decide whether Mr H made any misrepresentations when he took out the policy, 
Ive first of all looked at what information he was asked to provide at the application stage. 
Mr H cannot be expected to provide information that he wasnt asked for, so I need to be 
satisfied that the relevant question was clear and unambiguous. The question asked on the application form was please enter the value of your goods. Im 
satisfied that this question was phrased clearly enough that a reasonable consumer would 
have known what information they were being asked to provide. Having considered all of the 
available information, I dont think Mr H answered this question correctly. 
Ive already looked at the question of whether Zurich acted fairly when it valued the goods 
covered by Mr H at £70,000, and decided it had. So I think Mr H should have entered a 
figure of around this amount when answering this question. But he didnt, he entered 
£10,000. Given that Mr H would have known that the one piece of art claimed for was valued 
at £9,630  since he had receipts in his possession that showed this was the combined cost 
of the canvas and frame  I dont think he took reasonable care to accurately value the 
remaining items entered by him on the schedule. So Im satisfied that Mr H made a 
misrepresentation at the application stage about the value of the items he wanted covered. 
Ive then looked at whether the misrepresentation made by Mr H was a qualifying one. By 
this I mean whether Zurich would have taken a different course of action, such as offered the 
policy on different terms or declined to offer a policy at all, if it had known that Mr Hs 
property was worth significantly more than was suggested by him. Im satisfied that Zurich 
would have taken a different course of action and wouldnt have offered Mr H a policy if it 
had known his property was valued at around £70,000. It has shown that, in circumstances 
such as Mr Hs, it would only offer cover if the value of the goods was significantly lower. 
So if Mr H had looked to answer this question correctly and enter around £70,000 on the 
application form, then he would have found that he couldnt do that and he wouldnt have 
been able to proceed with the policy application. This means that he would not have been 
able to take out a policy with Zurich, and would not have had cover with it when he moved 
home. 
If Zurich had applied CIDRA in this case then it could have avoided Mr Hs policy  cancelled 
it from the start as it if had never existed  and declined his claim, as this is the position he 
would have been in if not for his misrepresentation. Instead Zurich opted to apply the 
underinsurance clause  and from what I can see the reduced settlement amount has been 
correctly calculated in line with the relevant clause  and has offered Mr H a proportionate 
settlement. By applying the underinsurance clause Mr H was dealt with more favourably by 
Zurich and so Im satisfied its acted fairly here. 
Mr H was also unhappy about Zurichs surveyor visiting his home in January 2021 as he 
thought it was illegal for a visit of this type to be carried out. I can see that Zurich provided 
Mr H with a copy of the relevant guidelines, which it said confirmed it was acceptable for 
tradespeople to enter properties as long as the correct precautions were undertaken. For his 
part, it seems Mr H has reported this matter to the police. I dont intend to make any findings 
here about the legality of the visit as its outside this Services remit to decide whether Covid 
restrictions have been complied with. I will leave this matter in Mr Hs hands. 
Zurich has offered to pay Mr H compensation of £250 for distress caused when its surveyor 
told Mr H that the cost of a cancelled home visit might be deducted from the settlement 
amount. I can see how this would have caused Mr H some distress, in particular given the 
Covid restrictions at the time and the consideration Mr H was giving to the legality of the 
visit. However, Im satisfied that the offer of £250 is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman