DRN-1354862
 
The complaint
Mr I complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when it gave him loans he says he couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
This complaint is about five loans Sunny provided to Mr I between October and December 
2018. 
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
Loan 
numberDate Taken Date Repaid Instalments Loan Amount
1 28/10/2018 31/10/2018 24 x £44.80 700
2 01/11/2018 02/11/2018 24 x £45.53 700
3 05/12/2018 11/12/2018 24 x £48.48 700
4 13/12/2018 19/02/2019 24 x £48.19 700
5 28/12/2018 19/02/2019 24 x £6.84 100
 
Mr I mainly said that he was taking loans so that he could pay other outstanding debt, 
including payday loans. He doesnt think that Sunny lent to him responsibly. 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint in part. He thought that Sunny shouldnt have lent 
loans 4 or 5 to Mr I. He set out what he thought Sunny should do to put things right for Mr I. 
Sunny disagreed with our adjudicator and said it didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Sunny mainly said that our adjudicator had made a mistake about how long the gap in 
lending had been between loans 2 and 3, and it didn't agree that Mr Is borrowing record 
showed he was struggling to repay previous loans. Sunny pointed out that before loan 4, 
Mr I hadnt missed any loan repayments. And Sunny said hed saved interest by paying 
loans early.  
Sunny has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr I could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr I could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication that a borrower could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Is complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr I. It asked him for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks on Mr Is credit file.
Our adjudicator didnt think he had enough evidence to say that loans 1, 2 and 3 shouldnt 
have been provided. Ive looked at the information gathered, including what Mr I said about 
his income and expenses when he took out these loans. I agree with our adjudicator that 
there isnt enough to say Sunny shouldnt have provided these loans to Mr I. It was still early 
in the lending relationship and so I think the checks were enough for Sunny to agree to lend 
these loans. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint about loans 1, 2 and 3.
But I think that by loan 4, Sunny should have realised that Mr I wasnt managing to repay his 
borrowing in a sustainable way. I say this because Sunny could see that:looking back at his borrowing history, there were indications that Mr I had struggled 
to repay some previous loans. Hed taken out loan 2 the next day after he repaid loan 
1, and he took out loan 3 barely a month or so after paying loan 2 
he took out loan 4 just two days after he paid loan 3. And this was now the third time 
in a row that hed repaid a loan early then soon borrowed again. And Mr I was 
repeatedly borrowing the same amount each time as the loan hed just repaid  and 
paying back the loans within two or three days of taking them out.   
it looks likely to me that Mr I had to borrow again each time because he was facing 
money problems after repaying each previous loan.  
 
In these circumstances, I think there was a significant risk Mr I wouldve been unable to 
sustainably meet his monthly repayments for loan 4  and for any further borrowing.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 4 onwards.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Sunny has said, including 
comments made in response to what our adjudicators said. But this doesnt change my 
overall view. Paying loans early doesn't mean that Mr I was able to do so in a way that was 
sustainable for him. For the reasons I've explained, I think borrowing and repaying this 
number of loans early suggests to me that Mr Is finances were not in a stable position and 
he was struggling to manage his debt. The fact he saved on interest isnt a reason for me not 
to uphold Mr Is complaint about loans 4 and 5.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr I towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 4 and 5, not including anything already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr I which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr I originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Pay Mr I the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
D. Remove any adverse information Sunny has recorded on Mr Is credit file for 
loans 4 and 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Is complaint about loans 4 and 5. 
Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out 
above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman