DRN-4229746
Complaint
Miss J is unhappy that Santander UK Plc wont refund money she says she lost to a scam.
Background
Miss J wanted some building work to be carried out at her home. She found a building 
contractor online. The builder (Mr K) visited her home and showed her examples of work 
hed done for other clients. She agreed a price and was happy to go ahead. The work was 
supposed to start in August 2022. However, the builder said that hed been delayed by the 
need to complete a previous job. I understand the builder reduced the quoted price for the 
job to reflect the late start.
Some workmen arrived at Miss Js home and began to carry out groundworks without the 
supervision of Mr K. He asked Miss J to pay these workers in cash and that would be 
deducted from the eventual bill. According to Miss J, the men carrying out these works had 
never met Mr K and had simply responded to an advert requesting labourers. She says they 
claimed to have been told to tell clients that theyd worked with Mr K for years.
Shortly after this point, Mr K asked Miss J to transfer money. He said he needed to order 
materials for the work. Miss J made the first of six payments on 7 September 2022. She 
went on to transfer £23,840 at various points throughout that month.
Although Mr K had said that he needed the funds to buy materials relevant to the job, 
practically none showed up. She says that Mr K visited her home on 10 September so that 
she could make a decision on the type of roof tiles she wanted to buy. She transferred 
further funds to him two days later to enable him to buy those roof tiles, but none were 
delivered. According to Miss J, the only thing that was delivered was a set of fence posts.
Once the groundworks had been completed, Miss J says that the workmen didnt know what 
to do next without the direction of Mr K. However, Mr K was more or less uncontactable. He 
told Miss J that hed returned to his home country because a family member was unwell. He 
then had to make another trip in early November because that family member had passed 
away.
On 21 November, Miss J contacted Santander to tell it she thought that Mr K had defrauded 
her. Unhappy with that allegation, Mr K wrote to Miss J and explained that he was 
terminating his contract with her and offered her a partial refund. There followed some 
negotiation about whether Mr K would return to the site and continue with the works, but 
Miss J accepted Mr Ks offer to bring the contract to an end. He emailed her in January 2023 
and claimed that hed posted a cheque for that refund from his home country. The cheque 
never arrived.
Miss J complained to Santander that she was the victim of a scam. Santander said that it 
didnt agree. It thought that she had a civil dispute with Mr K, but there wasnt enough 
evidence to say that it was fraud. Miss J was unhappy with that response and so she 
referred a complaint to this service.
It was looked at by an Investigator who didnt uphold it. She was of the same view  i.e. that 
Miss J might have a legal claim against Mr K, but that she wasnt the victim of fraud. As far 
as Miss J knows, Mr K has since returned to his home country and there would be major 
practical obstacles to her pursuing a claim against him for damages.
Because Miss J disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The broad legal position is that Miss J is liable for payments from her account that shes 
authorised. However, Santander is a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. In certain circumstances, that code says it should 
reimburse its customer where they fall victim to a scam. It only covers certain types of 
payments. The Code defines a scam as being a transfer of funds  where the customer 
intended to transfer funds to another person for what they believed were legitimate purposes 
but were in fact fraudulent.
It explicitly excludes private civil disputes from its ambit by stating that it does not apply to 
private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
It isnt in dispute that she authorised the payments that left her account. But she alleges that 
she has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam and that the builders 
intent from the start was to defraud her.
The key question I need to consider, therefore, is what the evidence shows the intentions of 
the builder were at the time. I obviously cannot answer that question with certainty and so I 
have to draw inferences from what the available evidence tells me was his likely intention at 
the time he agreed to take on the work and whether it is more likely than not that he intended 
to defraud Miss J.
Ive considered the available evidence carefully and Im not persuaded that it allows me to 
make that finding. It doesnt automatically follow that, just because the builder failed to 
perform his contractual obligations to Miss J, that he intended to defraud her from the start. 
Mr Ks company may have been unable to deliver on the promises it made Miss J or perhaps 
was incompetently run. These things would be the basis of a civil claim but arent enough to 
demonstrate fraud.
Its significant that the receiving bank  i.e. the bank that operated the builders account  
had no concerns and told our investigator that no other allegations of fraud have been made. 
It seems improbable (although I accept its not impossible) that the builder defrauded Miss J 
alone or that no other victim thought theyd contact their bank to lodge a complaint. 
Mr Ks bank also shared evidence with us that showed how the account was operated. The 
funds Miss J paid to him appear to have been generally used up in daily expenses. In most 
of the cases we see, fraudsters will move stolen funds on to another account as quickly as 
possible so as to prevent the possibility of those funds being recovered by their victim. The 
way Miss Js money was used by Mr Ks company was at odds with the typical approach of 
fraudsters. Miss J has said that the builders home was on the market at the time he agreed to take on 
the work and that a sale completed in November 2022. Shes pointed to this as evidence 
that he intended to leave for his home country with her money. Its understandable that she 
would have suspicions about the actions of the builder, but this is quite a speculative 
argument. House sales arent necessarily concluded quickly or predictably, and the builder 
could have made alternative living arrangements even after selling his home.
Miss J has also drawn my attention to the fact that the workmen who turned up at her home 
said that Mr K owed them money and also highlighted the unusual arrangement under which 
she had to pay cash to some of the workers herself. However, I think unpaid wages and 
asking clients to make short-term cash payments really points to a company that was being 
chaotically mismanaged, rather than being a clear indication of fraudulent intent. 
I can certainly see that Miss J has been let down very badly by a builder that she trusted. 
Her financial losses are very significant and its understandable that she would feel 
aggrieved. But while I know that my decision will be hugely disappointing to her, Im not 
persuaded that the evidence supports the argument that Mr K set out to defraud her. As a 
result, Santander isnt required to consider her complaint under the terms of the CRM Code.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman