DRN-3536828
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with how The Swaythling Housing Society Limited propose to calculate the 
amount needed to repay the help-to-buy (HTB) loan he took with it in 2006. This is because 
it hasnt agreed all of the items that he has put forward as home improvements and reduced 
the disposal value accordingly.
What happened
In 2006 Mr P bought his home with the assistance of the HTB loan. The loan gave Mr P 20% 
of the property value for his deposit. The loan agreement required Mr P to pay Swaythling 
20% of the disposal value of the property. The disposal value was detailed as:
the value of the Property on the Repayment Date assuming a sale in the open market with 
vacant possession by a willing seller to a willing purchaser  but disregarding the value of 
any additions or improvements carried out by the Debtor after the date of this Deed in 
respect of which the Debtor shall have obtained the written consent of the Lender in 
accordance with clause 9.7.
The Disposal Value shall be ascertained by agreement between the parties (acting 
reasonably) or failing agreement at the expense of the Debtor by an independent qualified 
valuer appointed by agreement between the parties or failing agreement by or on behalf of 
the president for the time being of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors on the 
application of either party and the decision of such valuer shall be final.
Clause 9.7 set out that the borrower was required to ask for authorisation for any 
improvements, alterations, or additions before they happen.
Swaythling has provided information about what it considers to be improvements and what it 
doesnt, which is set out on its website. This includes adding to the property by way of an 
extension, porch, driveway (excluding resurfacing an existing one) or car port. Other items 
listed are cavity wall insulation, loft conversion, new bathroom suite, new fitted kitchen, 
installation of central heating and double glazing (to replace single glazed windows).
It was also confirmed that the value of an improvement was not the amount they cost, but 
the amount they added to the value of the property.
In 2021 Mr P intended selling the property. He contacted Swaythling about paying off the 
HTB loan. He asked that it calculate the amount he owed, taking into account various 
improvements hed made to the property. He provided a list of the improvements. Swaythling 
considered the list and explained that many of the items were repairs, decoration and, 
overall, maintenance. 
Swaythling agreed, effectively, to provide retrospective permission for the items it considered 
to be improvements and take them into consideration when calculating how much Mr P 
owed it. It asked for evidence of the improvements, such as receipts, invoices or photos to 
evidence of the works done. Later, when agreement couldnt be reached between 
Swaythling and Mr P, it also explained that in order to evidence the value of the home 
improvements that had been accepted and evidenced, a RICS surveyor would need to value 
the property as it was and what it would be without the improvements. Swaythling offered to 
contribute £300 to the survey costs. 
Mr P complained, but Swaythling didnt change its position. Mr P referred his complaint to 
this service. At that point, the items that Swaythling hadnt accepted as improvements, and 
Mr P didnt agree with its decision were:
The replacement of the drive.
The replacement of guttering, soffits, drainpipes and bargeboards.
The replacement of all internal doors and frames, including removal of the fanlights 
above them on the ground floor. 
Renovations made to the kitchen  worktops, tiling, lighting, switches, ovens.
Changes to improve access to the loft.
New carpets.
Swaythling accepted the following items as improvements:
Cavity wall insulation  evidence supplied.
Soundproofing of the party wall in the lounge.
Refitting the downstairs toilet.
Refitting the bathroom.
Reconfiguration of the first floor.
Insulation and boarding of the loft.
The replacement of the boiler with an upgraded one  traditional with a combination 
boiler - evidence supplied.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained that it was not this services role to determine the value of a property. 
He went on to say that his investigation had focussed on whether Swaythling had treated 
Mr P fairly when deciding what was an improvement, when asking for evidence of the home 
improvements and for a RICS surveyor to be used to determine how much those 
improvements had added to the value.  He explained how improvements and maintenance 
were classified by Swaythling, which was in line with guidance provided by HMRC. Having 
applied this guidance to the items Mr P still wanted to claim for, he was satisfied that 
Swaythlings conclusions were fair. In addition, he thought the requirement of evidence that 
the improvements had been completed was reasonable, as was the requirement for the 
impact on the value of the property being independently assessed.  
The HMRC guidance that the investigator referred to states that an improvement is an asset 
being altered, improved or upgraded. Simply repairing or replacing with something that does 
the same job, would be considered a repair and, therefore, maintenance. 
Mr P didnt accept the investigators conclusions and disagreed that Swaythling had treated 
him fairly. He said that he had provided a comprehensive list of the improvements hed done 
and estate agents photos showing that hed improved the property. He disputed the items 
that Swaythling had decided were repairs and maintenance. He also questioned why, when 
it had been agreed the new boiler had been maintenance, Swaythling had it on the 
improvements list. Mr P reiterated that once hed had the works done to the house, hed had 
no need to keep receipts and said that he didnt think they were relevant to anything. In 
addition, he considered that it was ridiculous that he would need to ask permission to do 
home improvements, unless it was a significant alteration, such as digging a basement. Mr P 
also restated that the two surveyors hed contacted hadnt been interested in completing the 
valuations Swaythling wanted.Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion and it was decided that the 
complaint should be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two issues at the core of this complaint. The first is the disagreement about what 
is a maintenance issue and what is an improvement. The second is the evidence Swaythling 
requires in order to take the items that would be considered improvements into account 
when determining how much Mr P needs to pay it.
In relation to the first point, Mr P has quoted a dictionary definition of maintenance as the act 
of keeping something in good condition by checking or repairing it regularly. Whereas 
improvement is the act of making something better; the process of something becoming 
better. 
While I have noted the dictionary definitions Mr P has quoted, there is some subjectivity to 
applying those definitions  that being for an improvement the item must be better. What 
would be considered better is a matter of personal opinion. One person might consider a 
different look to a room would constitute it being better, but others would require material 
changes to structures or complete replacement to consider there was betterment.
However, Swaythling has set out on its website the type of thing that it considers an 
improvement and what it doesnt. Swaythling appears generally to consider where 
something is completely replaced with something of a better standard or higher functionality, 
or something new is introduced (such as boarding the loft), or increasing the size of the 
property, that is considered an improvement. Fixing/replacing something that has 
deteriorated or renovating an existing fitting, would be deemed repair or maintenance.  
Having reviewed this information, its approach doesnt seem to be unreasonable and seems 
to be in line with the HMRC guidance for what a repair is. I know that Mr P wont accept my 
conclusion in relation to this issue, but I think Swaythlings decisions about the works put 
forward as improvements were in line with its published approach. 
That having been determined, I must look at how Swaythling dealt with the items it deemed 
to be improvements. As our investigator pointed out, technically, Mr P was required to get 
permission to complete home improvements. While he currently doesnt think thats 
reasonable, it is a condition of the loan, which he accepted in 2006. Despite permission not 
having been requested before changes were made to the property, Swaythling has 
confirmed that it is happy to give retrospective permissions. That is an entirely reasonable 
approach. 
However, what Swaythling has now asked for is proof that the improvements Mr P has 
reported were done during his ownership of the property. This is not an unreasonable 
requirement. Swaythling has confirmed that its willing to accept evidence of the works in 
forms other than invoices, and again, I think that is a reasonable approach for it to take. As 
such, I am satisfied that Swaythling has treated Mr P fairly in this regard. 
I note Mr Ps comment that hes provided a copy of the sales brochure when he bought the 
house and the recent one produced when he put the property on the market. While the 
photographs contained in the recent brochure cover the whole house and there is also a 
floor plan, the 2006 brochure isnt as thorough. As such, these documents dont evidence 
the improvements that Swaythling has asked for evidence of.The terms of the loan say that where agreement about the value of improvements cant be 
reached between the parties, an independent valuation should be done. That is what 
Swaythling has suggested happens in this case, as agreement between it and Mr P cant be 
reached. It appears to be the appropriate next step. I would also comment that the loan 
terms require Mr P to pay the costs of such a survey, however, Swaythling has offered to 
pay up to £300 for the valuations to be completed. Thats more than it needed to do, and I 
can only endorse the offer in the circumstances. 
Overall, it appears that Swaythling has acted reasonably and fairly in relation to the 
improvements that Mr P wants taken into account when the cost of repaying his loan is 
calculated. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
28 July 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman