DRN-2746663
The complaint
Mr J complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) failed to carry out an instruction to transfer 
his funds into a stocks and shares Individual Savings Account (ISA).
What happened
Mr J started a transfer from his cash ISA to his HSBC stocks and shares ISA on 5 May 2020 
by completing transfer and authority forms. He entered his stocks and shares ISA number on 
both forms.
HSBC initiated the transfer and moved the funds into the uninvested cash account (UCA) 
held within Mr Js ISA.
Mr J later logged into his account and was unhappy to find his funds were in the UCA. He 
felt his instructions had been clear that he wanted the amount moved to his stocks and 
shares ISA and invested. He felt it was clear where he wanted the funds to be invested 
because hed previously only ever invested in one fund. Mr J complained as he felt hed 
suffered a loss as a result of this delay.
HSBC disagreed, they felt the forms were clear that if he transferred cash it would go to his 
UCA and remain there until a buy order was placed. Mr J remained unhappy and referred his 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Js complaint. They felt HSBCs forms were clear about 
what would happen. They also felt the form provided prominent enough warning that further 
action would be required by Mr J to invest his funds. They explained hed always have 
needed to specify what fund he wanted to purchase for any money to be invested. 
Mr J didnt agree. He accepted the forms made him aware the funds would initially be placed 
into a UCA but felt hed provided HSBC with clear instructions to follow afterwards. By 
quoting his stocks and share account number he felt hed provided instruction to invest in the 
fund hed previously purchased. 
Mr J also felt the transfer forms were ambiguous and misleading. This was because they 
didnt allow him to specify a trade and allowed him to enter his destination account number 
to no effect. He felt that if HSBC were unsure of his instructions, they shouldve contacted 
him. He asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J doesnt dispute that the transfer forms completed were clear that the funds would be 
initially placed in the UCA. I agree, as the form states:
All cash transfers will be credited to your ISA Uninvested Cash Account, and will 
be available for you to invest once the transfer is completed.
But Mr J feels he provided enough detail to constitute an instruction for HSBC. So, Ive 
considered whether HSBC shouldve done more based on the information submitted and 
whether the forms were fit for purpose.
Transfer forms
Mr J feels the forms HSBC provided werent fit for purpose because they allowed him to 
enter a destination account number to no effect and lacked the option to specify trades. Ive 
thought about this carefully, and I cant agree. I say this because the forms contained a 
prominent enough warning that cash ISAs would be transferred to a UCA. I can also see no 
suggestion in any of the forms provided to Mr J that quoting an account number would lead 
to a different result for his transfer. I dont feel the forms were misleading for Mr Js specific 
use.
I appreciate there was no dedicated part of the forms where Mr J could include any 
investment instruction. But I think this shouldve reasonably alerted Mr J to the fact there 
would be further steps needed to complete his investment once the transfer was complete. 
Mr J feels this missing option is precisely the reason the forms werent fit for purpose and 
another form shouldve been provided. But HSBC is under no obligation to ensure their 
transfer process includes the option to make a purchase. Their terms are clear on how 
customers can make an investment once a transfer is complete:
41.3 Cash received from your previous ISA provider will be transferred into your 
Uninvested Cash Account within your ISA Account. You can then use this 
amount to purchase Fund Shares in accordance with these Terms.
This notice combined with the lack of a dedicated purchase section on the forms shouldve 
reasonably alerted Mr J to the fact further steps would be required. I cant agree the forms 
provided were unsuitable for Mr Js needs or that they werent fit for the purpose of his 
transfer. 
Purchase instruction
Mr J is unhappy that his funds werent automatically invested in the same fund hed 
previously purchased. But I dont think itd be reasonable for HSBC to assume this same 
fund would be Mr Js choice of investment again without direct instruction from him. 
As Mr Js account was self-managed, Id only expect HSBC to take further action if Mr J 
submitted a specific trade. If Mr J had communicated a purchase instruction to HSBC, Id 
have expected HSBC to at least contact Mr J to query this. Ive thought carefully about 
whether the information Mr J provided should be treated as an instruction.
Mr J feels that as he inputted his stocks and shares ISA number on both the transfer and 
authority form HSBC shouldve completed a trade on his behalf or contacted him to clarify 
his instructions. But Im not persuaded that quoting this number alone constitutes an 
instruction to purchase a specific fund. And I dont think this detail was enough to expect 
HSBC to take any further action. 
Theres no requirement for customers to instantly invest funds held within a stocks and 
shares ISA. I dont think its fair to expect HSBC to have assumed this quoted account 
number alone meant Mr J wished to make a purchase in that moment.Again, there was no dedicated part of the form to include an instruction as this was not part 
of HSBCs usual process. Its therefore understandable Mr J didnt inform HSBC of any 
purchase orders in his transfer form. But Ive seen nothing to show he made any other 
attempt to communicate with HSBC about the trades he wanted to make. So, I wouldnt 
expect HSBC to have done any more.
HSBCs transfer forms and process were clearly outlined to Mr J at the outset, and Im not 
convinced that a specific purchase instruction was made. So, I feel HSBC acted fairly when 
leaving Mr Js funds in his UCA. As I think HSBC acted reasonably, I wont be 
recommending they do any more.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Paul Clarke
Ombudsman