DRN-2929899
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) declined claims she made on a 
pet insurance policy. In my decision Ill refer to the business as FA.
What happened
The background and circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties.
Rather than repeat what is already known to both parties and not generally in dispute, in my 
decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and she didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
found that FA had fairly considered and declined the claim inline with the policy terms. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I think is 
more likely than not to have happened in light of the evidence.
Im sorry to hear of the health issues with Ms Rs new puppy and then sadly the later death 
of the puppy. 
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having carefully 
considered all of the evidence in this complaint I dont uphold it. Ill explain my reasoning 
below.
Ms R has confirmed that she collected the puppy around lunchtime on 9 August 2021. The 
seller set up an insurance policy which was free for 5 weeks. This type of arrangement isnt 
unusual around the time of a puppy sale being completed. 
Whilst I dont know what - if anything, was discussed about this policy between Ms R and the 
seller, the evidence (an email to Ms R) shows that the policy started later that same evening 
on 9 August 2021. 
This means she had the puppy in her possession prior to the start of the policy. Shes also 
confirmed in her testimony that she first noted symptoms of the puppy being unwell whilst on 
the journey home. This has been supported by the vets notes:
.travelled over 200 miles and dog was sick on the journeyowner very 
concerned.only picked up today
This is important in this complaint as this policy (like many policies of this type) doesnt cover 
any illness, injury or sign that a pet was unwell that happened before the policy starts. 
The relevant term related to this is:
Pre-existing illness or injury - an injury that happened, or an illness that first showed 
clinical signs before your dogs policy started; or an injury or illness that is the same 
as, or has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an injury, illness or clinical sign 
your dog had before your policy started; or an injury or illness that is caused by, 
relates to, or results from, an injury, illness or clinical sign your dog had before your 
policy started, no matter where any of the injuries, illnesses or clinical signs are 
noticed or happen in, or on, your dogs body.
The policy also defines clinical signs as changes to your dogs normal healthy state, 
physical appearance, its bodily functions or behaviour. The terms make it clear that any vet 
fees for or resulting from a pre-existing illness wont be covered.
I appreciate that Ms R bought the puppy in good faith and shes shared images and photos 
of the puppy previously in good health prior to the time of her collecting it. But it remains that 
her puppy became unwell with symptoms on the journey home and ultimately required 
medical treatment. The key factor in this case is these symptoms were first evident prior to 
the policy commencing. Therefore, inline with the policy terms, FA can fairly decline this 
claim and dont need to do anything further. 
This is an unfortunate situation for Ms R to be in and she has my sympathy. But I dont find 
that FA have done anything wrong. 
I know Ms R will be naturally disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an 
end what we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute with FA  can do for her.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman