DRN-4456130
The complaint
Miss G is unhappy with the service she received from AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited (the AA) after she reported her car had been hit by a third party.
What happened
In December 2021 Miss Gs vehicle was parked and unattended when it was hit by a 
third-party vehicle. The third party left the scene, but a witness provided Miss G with an 
image of the vehicle. Miss G contacted the AA, her car insurance provider.
Miss G didnt want to make a claim for repairs at that stage until the third party had accepted 
liability. The AA contacted the third-party insurer who said their client had been the victim of 
cloned number plates and werent involved in the incident. 
The AA continued trying to move things forward by attempting contact with the witness, 
along with contacting the third-party insurer and the police. Due to the length of time since 
the incident, and there being no admission of liability, the AA said Miss G could proceed with 
the repairs under her policy, but the excess would be payable, or the claim could be closed 
as notification only.
Miss G doesnt feel the AA has done enough in pursuing the third party, so she approached 
this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but he didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the 
AA had made reasonable attempts to move things forward. 
As there was no outlay on the claim as Miss G didnt want to pay her excess or for the AA to 
carry out repairs, the AA were reliant on third parties responding. But he said the third 
parties were under no obligation as a claim hadnt been made and there were no financial 
losses, but in any event, the AA had continued to try to move things forward.
The investigator noted that the AA had offered to repair Miss Gs vehicle, but said shed be 
responsible for paying her excess in the first instance. Or the AA had said the claim could be 
closed as notification only if Miss G didnt want to proceed with the repairs. He said that 
based on the information from the AA, it was unlikely they would be able to recover any 
outlay. He said the AA had acted fairly overall.
Miss G remained unhappy and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I appreciate itll come as a disappointment to Miss G, Ive reached 
the same outcome as our investigator.
Our investigator outlined a detailed timeline of what happened since Miss G first contacted 
the AA in December 2021. I dont intend on revisiting that in detail again. But Id like to 
reassure both parties that Ive considered what happened during this time when reaching my 
final decision. Having done so, I agree with the investigator that the AA has made 
reasonable attempts to move things forward.
As Miss G didnt want to proceed with the claim or repairs until the third party accepted 
liability, it was notification only at that stage. This meant there was no financial loss or outlay 
for the AA to attempt to recover from the third-party or their insurer. This meant the AA were 
limited in what they could do and were reliant on the third parties, who were under no 
obligation, to provide assistance.
I do acknowledge Miss G thinks the third party isnt being truthful surrounding whether they 
were there and the alleged cloned number plates. And shes unhappy with how the 
third-party insurer has acted when responding to the AA. However, the third-party insurer 
and driver arent in my remit to consider. Im limited to considering how the AA has acted in 
relation to Miss G as their policyholder. And I think theyve made reasonable attempts to 
move things forward, but as yet, they havent had acceptance of liability from the third party 
who denies being present and has reportedly had cloned registration plates.
I fully appreciate Miss Gs position that she wasnt in her vehicle when it was hit, but at the 
moment there hasnt been any acceptance of liability. AA did manage Miss Gs expectations 
from the outset that this would be a lengthy process given there was no claim being made at 
that stage, no outlay or financial losses. And they also confirmed at different points Miss G 
had the option of closing the claim as notification only (with her no claims discount 
unaffected), or the AA would be able to carry out repairs subject to Miss G paying her policy 
excess (but her no claims discount would be impacted). 
The AA also said that if Miss G did go ahead with the claim and paid her excess, shed be 
referred to the Motor Insurers Bureau to discuss whether there was any possibility of her 
claiming reimbursement of her excess.
Whilst I appreciate Miss G is unhappy with the third party and their insurer, I think the AA 
have acted reasonably in trying to move things forward and outlining the available options to 
Miss G.My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman