DRN-3109981
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the standard of service he received from Monese Ltd following a 
question he asked about an introductory welcome bonus.  
What happened
Mr C opened an account with Monese after reading about a welcome bonus offer of free 
money for new account holders. Having opened the account, and with the free money bonus 
not received, Mr C attempted to contact Monese to inquire as to when the bonus would be 
paid into his account. Mr C tried contacting Monese via several channels and over a 
prolonged period without any response. Mr C wasnt happy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
In the interim, Mr C used his new Monese account, which was the catalyst required for the 
bonus to be paid. As such, when Monese did respond to Mr Cs complaint, they stated 
simply that the matter was resolved and closed the complaint. Mr C wasnt happy about the 
standard of service hed received from Monese, or with their response to his complaint, so 
he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that the terms of the welcome 
offer were such that the bonus money would only be paid following usage of the account, 
and that Monese had credited Mr Cs account with the correct bonus money following Mr C 
using the account.
However, our investigator felt that Mr C had been unreasonably frustrated and 
inconvenienced by Moneses lack of response to his enquiries and as such they 
recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Cs favour on that basis and that Monese 
should make a payment of £100 to Mr C to compensate him for the upset and trouble hed 
incurred.
Monese didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by our investigator, so the matter 
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Monese have explained that it was made clear on the advertisements and notices that 
detailed the welcome offer that the bonus money would only be paid to a new customers 
account following specific usage of that account by that customer. And, having reviewed the 
relevant advertisements and notices Im satisfied that this was indeed the case.
But Im not convinced that the clarity of the notices legitimises Monese not responding to   
Mr Cs emails and other communication attempts in the manner that they did. And indeed, I 
feel that it should have been evident from Mr Cs communication attempts that he didnt 
understand the terms of the welcome offer as stated.
It's also evident that when Mr C attempted to raise a formal complaint about his enquiries not 
being responded to by Monese, that Monese didnt recognise or acknowledge that Mr C had 
raised a complaint until such time that they closed the complaint on the basis that the 
welcome money had been paid to Mr C.
Monese have said that this was because Mr C didnt raise the complaint to its complaints 
team directly. But a customer is under no obligation to contact a complaints team directly to 
raise a complaint, and I note that the FCA definition of a complaint includes the phrase Any 
oral or written expression of dissatisfaction  which Mr C has clearly provided in this 
instance.
As such, while Im satisfied that Monese didnt do anything wrong with regard to how it 
applied the terms of the welcome offer to Mr Cs new account, it seems clear to me that the 
standard of service provided to Mr C by Monese surrounding his attempts to communicate 
with them, and his attempt to raise a complaint with them, fall below the standard that this 
service would expect.
Consequently, I do feel that Mr C incurred a level of frustration and inconvenience that he 
ought reasonably not to have incurred, and because of this I will be upholding this complaint 
in Mr Cs favour and instructing Monese to make a payment to Mr C of £100 to compensate 
him for this.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Monese were wanting, but I trust they will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
Putting things right
Monese must make a payment of £100 to Mr C. This payment may not take the form of a 
credit to Mr Cs Monese account unless Mr C gives his permission for it to do so.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monese Ltd on the basis explained 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman