DRN-4153483
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with how MBNA Limited defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr T contacted MBNA and asked for a payment holiday on his credit account because he 
was experiencing financial difficulty. Mr T was under the impression MBNA had agreed to 
provide financial assistance to him, but a few months later he discovered that MBNA had 
defaulted his account for non-payment without giving any prior notice to him of their intention 
to do so. Mr T wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
MBNA explained that because the account had fallen into a position of prolonged arrears 
theyd issued a default notice to Mr T in February 2023, advising that the account would be 
defaulted if the position of the account wasnt recovered in a timely manner. MBNA also 
explained that theyd sent a reminder to Mr T three weeks later and had only defaulted the 
account a few weeks after that, with Mr T not having contacted them and with the account 
arrears unresolved. Mr T wasnt happy with MBNAs response, especially as he hadnt 
received the letters MBNA referred to. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that MBNA had 
managed the situation unfairly and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, its evident that Mr T first told MBNA of the financial difficulty he was 
experiencing on 30 July 2021 and that MBNA placed a 30-day hold on the account at that 
time. This initial 30-day hold ended towards the end of August 2021, and Mr T contacted 
MBNA again approximately three weeks after that, on 17 September 2021. 
At that time, MBNA asked Mr T to undertake an income and expenditure assessment with 
them, the results of which may have allowed MBNA to provide further financial assistance to 
him regarding his account. Mr T couldnt undertake the assessment at that time, so a further 
30-day hold was applied to the account to enable Mr T to call back within that timeframe and 
complete the assessment. But Mr T didnt contact MBNA again to complete the income and 
expenditure assessment as requested.
When a credit provider such as MBNA is contacted by an account holder who is 
experiencing financial difficulty, that credit provider is obliged to treat their account holder 
positively and sympathetically. But there are limits to the level of support a credit provider is 
expected to offer. And importantly, when an account holder is experiencing financial difficulty 
and struggling to meet the contractual payment requirements of their account, this doesnt 
absolve that account holder of those contractual payment requirements.
What this means is that while a credit provider can agree to freeze interest on the account 
for a short period of time, as MBNA did in this instance, the account holder is still required to 
make the monthly payments as contractually required on the account. And if the account 
holder cant make these payments  as Mr T couldnt in this instance  then arrears are 
considered to have accrued on the account and the credit provider has an obligation to 
report these arrears to the credit reference agencies. 
This is explained in the letters MBNA sent to Mr T confirming the two agreed 30-day holds 
dated 3 August and 18 September 2021, which explained that the accrual of interest has 
been frozen for 30-days but that the contractual monthly payments were still due. And these 
letters also explained that if Mr Ts account fell into a position of arrears, this would be 
reported to his credit file. And, because Mr T couldnt make the contractual monthly 
payments due on the account, his account did fall into arrears. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issues guidance on when a credit provider 
such as MBNA should consider defaulting a credit account for the non-payment of account 
arrears. This guidance includes that a credit provider should generally provide a notice to an 
account holder that their account may be defaulted when that account has fallen into around 
three months of arrears, and that an account should be defaulted preferably before an 
account falls into more than six months of arrears. 
Upon review, MBNA appear to have acted in line with this guidance. And I say this because 
when MBNA issued a default notice to Mr T in February 2022, the account was several 
months in arrears, and MBNA then proceeded to default the account before the level of 
account arrears grew significantly.
As such, I feel that MBNA havent acted unfairly towards Mr T by issuing the default notice 
and later defaulting the account as they did. And it must be noted that the reason accounts 
in prolonged arrears are expected to be defaulted by credit providers is because the act of 
default freezes the balance outstanding and stops the further accrual of interest and 
charges, meaning the account holder doesnt continue to fall further and further into debt. 
Mr T has explained that he didnt receive the default notice that MBNA sent, and so feels 
that MBNA havent fairly notified him of their intention to default the account. But MBNA have 
been able to demonstrate to my satisfaction that they did send the default notice and the 
reminder letter to Mr T, and that these were addressed to the correct address  the address 
which Mr T has provided to this service as being his own. And while it may have been the 
case that these letters werent received by Mr T, this service wouldnt hold MBNA 
accountable for the non-delivery of correctly addressed letters, given that the delivery of 
such letters is undertaken by a postal service over which MBNA have no direct control.
Additionally, it remained the responsibility of Mr T, as the account holder, to be aware of the 
ongoing position of his account. And I feel the potential consequences of prolonged arrears 
were explained to Mr T in the 30-day hold confirmation letters as well as by the MBNA 
agents he spoke with to arrange those holds. And given that Mr T didnt contact MBNA to 
conduct an income and expenditure assessment as hed agreed to or respond to the letters 
that MBNA sent to him following that conversation, I dont feel that MBNA acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in how they administered his account from that point. 
Mr T feels that because hes now cleared the balance outstanding on the account that the 
default should be removed. But as alluded to above, credit providers such as MBNA have an 
obligation to make factual reports to the credit reference agencies. And Mr T did default on 
his credit agreement with them. So, Im satisfied that MBNA reporting this default is factual.Finally, Mr T is unhappy that his account debt was sold by MBNA to a debt recovery agency. 
But the transferal of debt to recovery agencies is a common practice and one which is 
addressed and permitted by the terms of the credit agreement which Mr T agreed and 
consented to when he opened the credit account. As such, MBNA didnt require any further 
authorisation from Mr B beyond this to sell the debt to the recovery agency as they did.
All of which means that I dont feel MBNA have done anything wrong or acted unfairly here. 
And it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing MBNA to take 
any further action. I realise this wont be the outcome Mr T was wanting, but I hope hell 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman