DRN-3540952
The complaint
Mr S is complaining about the fees charged by Computershare Investor Services Plc 
(Computershare) when he sold his shares through their platform.
What happened
Mr S held shares in a Share Incentive Plan (SIP) which was managed by Computershare. In 
April 2021, he used the Computershare platform to sell 100 of those shares. The shares 
were denominated in US dollars (USD). So Mr S nominated a US dollar bank account, also 
via the platform, for the proceeds of the sale to be paid into. However, the sale proceeds 
were converted to British pounds (GBP) and then back to USD, resulting in a loss of around 
500 USD on the transaction because of fees, commissions, and exchange losses associated 
with the two conversions.
Mr S complained to Computershare. They told him that the base currency for the SIP is 
GBP. So when he sold the shares, the USD proceeds had to be converted to GBP before 
being paid out. And, they said, because hed asked for the proceeds in USD, they had to be 
converted again, incurring further costs.
Because Mr S was unhappy with Computershares response, he brought his complaint to 
our service. But our investigators view was that Computershare had done nothing wrong  
so Mr S asked for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate itll be disappointing for Mr S, Im not upholding his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Theres no regulatory limit on the amount of fees a provider can charge  providing those 
fees are set out in a clear, fair and not misleading way. So Ive considered whether that was 
the case.
Disclosure of fees in advance
Mr S was clearly aware that the shares he held were denominated in USD and it seems he 
was hoping to avoid any currency conversion fees by asking for the proceeds of the sale to 
be paid into a USD account. However, the SIP brochure makes it clear that when shares are 
sold, the proceeds will be converted into GBP before being paid out. And the brochure says 
that the consumer will need to pay for the costs of sale, which, it says, will be shown on the 
Computershare platform. 
The brochure doesnt talk about what happens if proceeds are paid out in a currency other 
than GBP, but Computershare have also provided their Global Payment Service terms and 
conditions which state: 
you will be charged [a] fixed fee as specified on the WebsiteANDthe Wholesale Rate 
will be reduced by a Spread of 250 basis points. 
Computershare have provided screenshots showing Mr Ss acceptance of those terms and 
conditions.
So Im satisfied the paperwork Mr S had in relation to the SIP explained that he should 
expect to pay fees in relation to selling his shares. Having said that, I dont think the 
paperwork on its own would be enough  although the language is clear, its quite far into a 
lengthy terms and conditions document.
Disclosure of fees during the transaction
Computershare have provided us with screenshots showing the process Mr S would have 
had to go through to sell his shares. Its clear from these that the cost of currency 
conversions would have been disclosed to Mr S. The panel on the right hand side of the 
Summary page shows first the fees for selling (at 2%) and the estimated proceeds in GBP. 
It then shows the foreign currency conversion rate for GBP to USD and the estimated 
proceeds in USD. Its straightforward to compare the amount of USD being received to the 
total value of the shares being sold and therefore work out the total costs associated with the 
transaction. 
Although this isnt the actual screen Mr S saw at the time, Im persuaded hed have seen 
something very similar. The summary information is shown before the consumer confirms 
the instruction to sell. So Im satisfied Computershare set out the fees for the sale and the 
foreign currency exchange rates in a clear, fair and not misleading way and that Mr S had 
the opportunity to change his mind or query the fees before going ahead. 
I know Mr S thinks Computershare could have queried whether he really wanted to make the 
sale in this way. But its not reasonable to expect them to check individual transactions made 
using an automated platform. 
In summary, Im satisfied Computershare disclosed the costs in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way and theres nothing more I can ask them to do.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about Computershare Investor 
Services Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman