DRN-3443586
The complaint
Mr N complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) for its decision to decline his claim 
for stolen bicycles. He wants Aviva to settle his claim and to pay him compensation for the 
delays he has experienced. 
What happened
Around 2016, Mr N purchased specialist bicycle insurance from an insurance intermediary. 
He renewed his policy each year, and in 2021 his policy was underwritten by Aviva. 
In May 2021, Mr N discovered that his two insured bicycles had been stolen. They were kept 
in a locked unit in the basement of his apartment building, which was only accessible to 
residents. His unit had a wooden door locked with a hasp and a standard padlock, which had 
been cut through. The building had been forcibly entered. 
Mr N reported the theft and submitted a claim immediately. 
Aviva contacted Mr N promptly and requested information about how the bikes were stored, 
whether the frames were locked to an immovable object, and for photographs and proof of 
ownership. 
Mr N responded immediately and provided the information. He confirmed that the bikes were 
not locked to an immovable object. 
Over the following weeks, Aviva contacted Mr N a number of times to request parts of this 
information again. He was asked a number of times whether the bikes were locked to an 
immovable object and he confirmed that they had not been.
In late July 2021, Aviva contacted Mr N and declined his claim. It stated that the security 
requirements of the policy had not been met.
Mr N complained. Aviva rejected his complaint about the decision to decline but 
acknowledged that it had repeatedly asked him for the same information and had delayed in 
reaching its decision. Aviva offered Mr N £100 compensation to reflect this.
Mr N was unhappy and contacted us. 
Our investigator has looked into this matter and did not recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They thought that Aviva had acted reasonably in its assessment of whether the 
security requirements had been met, and that Aviva was entitled to decline the claim in the 
circumstances. The investigator considered that Avivas offer of compensation was 
reasonable to reflect the delay and the distress and inconvenience this had caused. 
Mr N did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have great sympathy for Mr N in this situation. He has clearly taken steps to ensure that his 
valuable bikes were insured, and he has kept them in a place which ought to have been 
secure. He has now found himself not covered for a loss of around £1800 due to the theft. I 
can appreciate how frustrated and upset he must be. 
I do, however, agree with the investigators view and I do not uphold the complaint. 
Mr N has provided evidence showing the lock up shed which the bikes were kept in. He 
considers that the basement of his building ought to have been secure as it was protected by 
locked doors and was only open to residents of the building. 
The policy anticipates that bikes may be kept in a variety of different places and it details 
what is required for each of these. 
If the individual storage unit was considered private it would have to meet specific standards, 
including secure fixed door locks or a closed shackle padlock. It did not meet those. 
If the storage unit is communal storage, then the policy makes clear that the bikes would 
have to be secured to an immovable object. They were not. 
I appreciate that Mr N has said that he found the wording ambiguous, but I do not agree. The 
policy is detailed, but in my view it is clear. Security requirements included in policies are 
included to try to prevent loss, and I think that the policy here was reasonable in its 
requirements and in how it is worded.
Whilst I appreciate that this has caused a substantial loss to Mr N, I cannot say that Aviva 
has acted unfairly in relying on these clauses, and in its decision to decline the claim. 
I agree that Aviva did provide a poor service to Mr N in respect of asking repeat questions 
and in the delay in reaching a decision, but I think that the offer of £100 is reasonable to 
reflect the additional distress and inconvenience caused to Mr N by those issues. 
Overall, I agree with the investigators view that Aviva has considered this claim fairly, and it 
has made a reasonable offer of compensation to reflect its failings. 
I therefore do not ask Aviva to do anything further. I appreciate that this will be disappointing 
to Mr N but I hope it makes clear my reasons for reaching this decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mr Ns complaint, and I do not ask Aviva 
Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman