The complaint
Mr G complains about the redress offered by Financial Administration Services Limited (the 
business) after it accepted that it gave him incorrect information about the level of charges 
that would be applied to his investment. 
What happened
In November 2015, Mr G contacted the business to ask about the level of commission hed 
be charged if he was to invest his 2015/2016 ISA allowance in the Jupiter UK Growth fund 
through the business. 
He was told over the phone that hed be charged 0.20% on a non-advised basis, but he has 
since discovered that he was being charged 0.35%. 
When Mr G called to query this, the business confirmed that the correct rate was 0.35%. It 
explained that the charge was dependent upon the value of his holdings, and for him to 
qualify for the 0.20% rate hed have to hold £250,000 of assets, directly held in his personal 
investing account and not through an adviser. 
The business upheld the complaint saying that Mr G was given incorrect information about 
the charges that would apply. So, by way of redress it offered:
A refund of the fees charged (£194) from 2015 to 2019.
An additional £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused, and £50 for
the delays in dealing with his complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Having read the service fees document she was satisfied that 0.35% was the correct
fees.
The fees applied automatically depending on the amount invested and whether or not
it was invested through the business.
The redress offered by the business was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr G would have to decide what to do moving forward.
Mr G disagreed with the investigators view. In short, he said:
DRN-1895940Whilst he agreed with most of the investigators points  including the complaint, 
background and findings  he disagreed with her conclusion that the redress offered 
by the business was fair and reasonable. 
It was a matter of contract law, the business agreed to charge 0.20% for his non-
advised business  it made the offer twice (2015 and 2017)  which he accepted by 
investing his ISA funds forming an agreement. 
As an experienced commercial lawyer, he knows the correct position is that the 
business should now put him (the innocent party) into the same position as if the 
contract terms had been performed. In other words, continue to charge him 0.20% 
moving forward.   
He doesnt dispute the fee calculations but feels the £194 should remain within the 
ISA wrapper. 
If he now decides to continue with the investment, itd form a new contract and the 
business will be entitled to charge him 0.35%, but under the original agreement it 
was bound to charge him 0.20%.
He also said: funds are in a variety of investments (spread across a portfolio of 
about 20 different funds) as suggested, monitored and regularly updated by the IFA. 
If I had to take those funds out of their portfolio and under my own control I would not 
have the skills necessary to choose and continually update the choice of those 
investments, which would greatly increase the risk to my pension funds. On the other 
hand the alternative suggested solution, to put the ISA into advised business, would 
mean I would also have to pay another 1% to my IFA out of the ISA  which does not 
make much financial sense because it would increase. 
Hes not obliged to take either option given that the business should simply fulfil its 
promise. 
 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In summary, she said: 
Whilst she appreciates the points made about contract law, she was looking at what 
was fair and reasonable to both parties.
Although the business made a mistake about the charges, his investment wasnt 
eligible for the lower charges in the first place because it didnt meet the criteria. 
Because the business made a mistake, it decided to honour the lower amount for a 
period, along with paying compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
experienced by Mr G, but it wasnt obliged to honour the mistake indeterminately. 
Overall the proposed redress was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
She wasnt telling Mr G what to do with his IFA, but merely pointing out that it was an 
option. However, he may wish to seek financial advice before deciding what to do 
going forward. 
 
Mr G disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary, he made the following 
points:
Whilst he understood that we should be guided by reasonableness, he was a bit 
surprised that the investigator didnt think the law in this area provided a fair and 
reasonable answer.
The law in England (and Wales) has been developed over many years by brains 
much better than his. 
In contract law, the basic rule is that each side should fulfil their promise. This is what 
has been decided as fair and reasonable. The law shouldnt be discarded just because one side finds it inconvenient, otherwise 
wed find ourselves lawless. 
Theres no difficulty for the business to charge him 0.20%. It would be considerably 
more difficult for him to sack his IFA which would leave him financially exposed. 
The business  which controls billions of pounds  having said itd charge 0.20% 
should keep its word. If it had told him itd charge 0.35%, he wouldve probably 
invested with another platform and enjoyed their lower rates.
 
Having considered the additional points, the investigator wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. 
 
As no agreement reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr G says, Im satisfied that the 
redress paid by the business is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Gs strength of feeling about this matter. 
He has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive 
been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Im mindful that it was a non-advised sale, and that it was up to Mr G to decide  based upon 
information provided by the business  whether (or not) the investment was suitable for him. 
I note that Mr G was a new customer, and that he decided to invest based on his 
discussions with the business and what he was (incorrectly) told about the level of charges. 
Nevertheless, the business has charged him 0.35% (the correct amount in accordance with 
its service fees as set out in the service fees document) from the outset.The business quite rightly accepts that it gave Mr G incorrect information regarding the 
charges. I note the business is very sorry for this and has given feedback to the associates 
and their managers, so this doesnt happen again. 
But now that the mistake has been identified, I think its a matter for Mr G to decide what he 
does moving forward, including whether he wishes to remain invested with the business or 
not. 
I appreciate the points Mr G makes about the law, and Im also conscious that a court of law 
might decide this case differently, but the ombudsman service  as an alternative dispute 
resolution service  isnt the same as a court, its here to decide cases on the basis of whats 
fair and reasonable to all parties concerned. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, in this instance Im not persuaded that the 
business should be made to honour a mistaken statement that led Mr G to use its services 
on a non-advised basis. 
Im not persuaded that an agreement was formed over the phone and that hed only be 
charged 0.20%. I think its probably at the point that an application was made (and accepted) 
that an agreement in accordance with the terms and conditions came into play, and that 
agreement was for 0.35%. Im mindful that the terms and conditions refer to the service 
charge which can be seen in the doing business with Fidelity document which makes this 
point reasonably clear.  
So, in the circumstances I think a refund of the fees  from 2015 (when the investment 
started) to 2019 (when the mistake was discovered)  is broadly fair and reasonable, and in 
this case places him (as close as possible) in the position he would now be in if he had been 
given the right information about the fees and decided not to go ahead with the business and 
been able to find a provider with a lower fee.
As I understand it Mr Gs investment didnt and doesnt qualify for the 0.20% fees, and 
therefore I dont think it would be reasonable for me to ask the business to charge this 
amount moving forward. And certainly not now that the mistake has been discovered, and 
Mr G  equipped with the correct information  has an opportunity to decide what he wants 
to do. 
Im conscious that the business according to its policy documentation (which Mr G wouldve 
been supplied with at the point of sale) charged Mr G the correct rate at 0.35%, in line with 
its criteria for charging this amount.  
I also note that the letter of confirmation dated November 2015 referred to the Key Features 
Document (KFD) which referred to the correct charges. 
 
I appreciate the business suggests that Mr G may have options so that he might qualify for 
the lower charges. I note it said:
Unfortunately, as your account is linked to an adviser, you cannot be a Wealth customer. As 
an alternative option, you are able to de-link HFS Milboume Financial Services from your 
account. You will then be entitled to a relationship manager and the reduced fee rate of 
0.2%. The other option you have is to link your adviser to your ISA. This will also reduce 
your service fee to 0.2%; however, you would need to speak with your adviser about this, as 
their charges may increase as a result..Im mindful that Mr G isnt too keen on the alternatives given the potential financial 
implications, but they are nevertheless options for him to consider without any obligations. It 
may be that Mr Gs able to come to an agreement with his IFA, nevertheless I dont think this 
involves the business. Im satisfied that hes aware that if he decides to remain invested with 
the business, itll be entitled to charge him 0.35% moving forward which I dont think is unfair 
in the circumstances. 
Despite what Mr G says, its not a question of whether itd be inconvenient to get the 
business to charge the 0.20%, if I thought it was the right thing to do  which on balance I 
dont in this case  Id ask it to do so, regardless of any inconvenience to the business. 
Im also not persuaded that the business needs to incorporate the refund of fees into the ISA 
wrapper as this wasnt money that wouldve remained in his account if the business had not 
got things wrong. 
Im aware that Mr G has also been paid £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
the error, plus £50 for the delays in responding to the complaint, which I think is broadly fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I note that reasonably soon after when Mr G became 
aware that he was being charged 0.35% the business accepted its mistake and 
endeavoured to deal with the situation.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr G says, Im unable to say that 
the business is responsible for charging only 0.20% in fees going forward.  
I appreciate Mr G will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what he wants to hear. But on the face of the 
available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
I think the offer made by Financial Administration Services Limited is broadly fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman