DRN-4312874
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Creation Financial Services Limited was irresponsible in its lending to 
her.
What happened
Mrs M says that Creation didnt carry out adequate affordability checks before providing her 
with a credit card account with a £7,500 credit limit. She says that she was only asked about 
the household income and that she wasnt earning at the time and the income provided was 
her husbands. Mrs M says she shouldnt have been provided with a credit card with such a 
high limit given she wasnt earning and had other credit commitments at the time. 
Creation says that checks were carried out before the credit card was provided to Mrs M and 
that its checks supported the lending being affordable.
Mrs M referred her complaint to this service in August 2022.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that the checks Creation carried out 
before lending didnt suggest the lending was irresponsible. She did think Creation could 
have asked more about Mrs Ms debts and expenses before lending but said she hadnt 
received evidence to show that had this happened the credit limit would have been found to 
have been unaffordable.
Mrs M didnt agree with our investigators view. She reiterated that the income provided was 
her husbands, but the credit card was in her sole name. She said she wasnt earning, and 
Creation was aware of this. Mrs M then provided further evidence from the time the credit 
card was provided for consideration. 
Our investigator considered the additional evidence but said it didnt change her view. 
Therefore, this case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. I've had this approach in mind when considering what's fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. The lenders need to assess the ability of the consumer being able to 
make the repayments in an affordable way and its down to the lender to decide what specific 
checks it wishes to carry out. 
Creation carried out a credit check before providing the credit card. This didnt raise any 
concerns that Mrs M was struggling financially. Mrs M also provided information through her 
application form. This stated that she was married and a joint homeowner. Mrs Ms 
employment was recorded as a homemaker and a household income of over £50,000 was 
declared. 
Mrs M has said that a household income of over £50,000 was correct but that this was her 
husbands income not hers and that she wasnt earning at the time. I have considered the 
regulations in place at the time the credit card was provided. The guidance for creditors set 
out that creditors should undertake proportionate affordability checks and credit worthiness 
checks and that assessments of affordability should consider the potential for the credit 
commitment to adversely impact on the borrower's financial situation. 
Mrs M was recorded as a homemaker on the application and in such circumstances, it isnt 
unreasonable to accept that the household income would be used to cover the costs of 
household expenses including credit commitments. In this case the household income didnt 
raise concerns about the affordability of the credit card but as this credit was being provided 
to Mrs M I think it would have been reasonable to have asked her about how the repayments 
would be made and her access to the household income.
Mrs M has said she had taken out another loan in 2005 in her sole name and that she was 
jointly responsible for the mortgage and a current account that had an overdraft. She has 
provided copies of bank statements for the time leading up to the application. The 
statements provided are from a joint account. 
Having looked through the joint account bank statements these show regular commitments 
(including the loan repayments that Mrs M has highlighted from the loan in her sole name) 
and other general living expenses coming from the joint account. This suggests that the 
money in the joint account was available to Mrs M for her commitments and spending. 
Based on this I do not find that I can say that further checks would have suggested relying 
on household income was unreasonable in this case.
I have looked at the bank statements for the months leading up to the lending and 
acknowledge Mrs Ms comment that they re-mortgaged in June 2010 resulting in around 
£35,000 being paid into the joint account which was used in part to repay outstanding debts. 
The bank statements show that a regular monthly income was being paid into the joint 
account of around £3,476 in the months leading up to the credit card being provided along 
with some monthly benefits. I can see that the account was overdrawn before the money 
from the re-mortgage was paid in. However, while I think it would have been reasonable to 
have confirmed the household income and Mrs Ms access to this, I do not find that based 
on the outcome of the credit check and application form data that Creation was required to 
verify Mrs Ms expenses and so I wouldnt have expected it to request copies of bank 
statements or other similar evidence. And considering the information that was identified 
through the checks and what I find most likely to have been identified had Mrs M been asked 
further about the income I do not find I have enough to say that this would have raised 
concerns about the affordability of the credit card.
Because of this I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not have enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 Jane Archer
Ombudsman