DRN-2914022
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as R, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed its account in 
error, leaving it unable to trade.
Rs director, Mr M, brings the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
R banked with Lloyds. Mr M instructed the bank to close Rs account on 7 July 2020, with 
the company having ceased trading and asked to be struck off the Companies House 
register. 
Lloyds received the relevant paperwork from Mr M on 17 July, and began to process the 
account closure. But on 11 August, Mr M called Lloyds to advise that hed changed his mind. 
He said hed withdrawn the application to strike off  and the bank advised that this meant 
the account would no longer close. That was, however, incorrect. As the account closure 
process was already underway, Lloyds needed to take some additional action to cancel it. 
And as no action was taken, the account was closed on 17 August 2020 in line with the 
original instruction.
Mr M complained and asked that Lloyds open a new account for the company. Lloyds 
accepted that it had made an error in failing to halt the account closure and paid £400 
compensation for the inconvenience this had caused. But it said that it had stopped 
accepting new business account applications  a consequence of the coronavirus 
pandemic  so it couldnt arrange a replacement for R. 
Mr M remained unhappy and referred the matter to us. He said that R had been unable to 
take on work because it didnt have an account and estimated this had cost the company 
£15,000, so he wanted Lloyds to reimburse the company by this amount.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint but didnt recommend that Lloyds do 
anything further. She said there had clearly been an error on the banks part in failing to 
cancel the account closure, but couldnt see that this had caused R a financial loss. She 
thought the company couldve opened an account elsewhere to avoid missing out on work 
and, in any case, said that R hadnt provided any evidence of the losses claimed. She 
thought that the £400 Lloyds had already paid was fair compensation for the inconvenience 
R had been caused. And she said that the bank had since resumed new business account 
applications (as of 5 November 2020), so R could apply directly if it still needed one.
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Lloyds made an error in closing Rs account. It accepts that it 
received Mr Ms request to cancel the closure and didnt take the necessary action to ensure 
the account remained open. Its right that R is compensated for the impact this error had on 
it, and the question of fair compensation is all that remains for me to decide. 
Ive considered whether R suffered a financial loss as a result of what Lloyds did wrong  but 
Ive not seen that it did. 
Mr M told us that as the company didnt have an account, it couldnt take on work. I accept 
this to a point. The issue would clearly have caused R some difficulties, but I think these 
couldve largely been avoided by opening a new account elsewhere (which would typically 
only take a matter of days). Other measures  for example, taking payment by cheque, 
which could then be cashed at a later date  could also have alleviated any problems in the 
interim.
In any case, while accepting there was a short period of time in which Rs ability to trade 
could have been impaired due to Lloyds closure of its account, Mr M hasnt provided us with 
any evidence to demonstrate that the company suffered any financial losses. So there is no 
basis on which I could fairly require Lloyds to compensate R in this respect.
I can, however, see how R wouldve been inconvenienced by what happened. As far as 
Mr M was aware, the account closure had been cancelled. So the closure came without 
notice or warning  meaning Mr M had to spend time and effort following up with the bank 
immediately to understand what happened and attempt to remedy things. The company 
would then have had to make alternative arrangements as a matter of urgency. For this 
inconvenience, and with no other details from Mr M as to how the company was impacted, I 
think that the £400 proposed by Lloyds is fair compensation. As this has already been paid, 
I dont require the bank to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman