DRN-2943977
The complaint
Mr W has complained about how esure Insurance Limited (esure) dealt with a claim under 
his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W contacted esure to make an insurance claim when a large tree fell on his home 
causing damage. esure accepted the claim and agreed to settle it through a cash settlement. 
It also prepared a scope of works and asked Mr W to obtain some quotes for the work.
Mr W arranged to get some quotes, but said he would charge esure his hourly work rate for 
the time he spent dealing with the claim. esure said it wouldnt pay for Mr Ws time.
When Mr W complained to this service, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, as he 
said esure had acted in line with the terms and conditions policy.
Mr W asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so the complaint has 
been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
esure agreed to settle the claim by way of a cash settlement, which it was entitled to do 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. Mr W said he would charge his normal 
professional hourly rate for dealing with the claim because he used time when he could have 
been dealing with clients to deal with it, his profession meant he had knowledge and 
expertise that related to his claim and he was being asked to do far more than could be 
considered reasonable.
The policy booklet explained the type of information and documents esure might request as 
part of dealing with a claim and said:
to help Us process Your claim We may ask for information that is reasonably required to 
support the claim. We will only ask for information relevant to Your claim such as: 
documentation, written estimates, receipts, reports on the cause of damage, 
correspondence from other people, photographs, proof of ownership or value, valuations, 
crime reference numbers, details of other insurance policies, pre-purchase surveys, user 
manuals, which are in Your or Your Household possession or easily obtainable.
As part of agreeing the amount of the cash settlement, esure asked Mr W to obtain some 
quotes. Im satisfied that esures terms and conditions explained that it might ask a 
policyholder to do this. I dont think its unusual for an insurer to ask a policyholder to obtain 
quotes as part of dealing with a claim.
I also havent seen anything that persuades me that esure asked Mr W to do anything 
because of his professional background. There will also be a level of disruption to any 
policyholder because of a claim, both because of the damage itself but might include having 
to discuss elements of the claim, provide information or take time off work in order to meet 
with people. In my view, I didnt see anything that esure asked Mr W to do that it wouldnt 
potentially have asked any other policyholder to do, depending on the circumstances of their 
claim.
The policy booklet also had a section called Professional fees, clearance costs, and local 
authority requirements, which said:
What is not covered?
We will not pay:

 any fees You incur to help You prepare an insurance claim
Although Im aware that Mr W wasnt, as such, charging for fees incurred, he kept a record, 
in the form of a timesheet, of each time he had to deal with any element of the claim and 
then applied his hourly rate to it.
The policy booklet also included a general exclusion that said:
We will not pay for any losses or expense that are not directly associated with the loss, 
damage or incident resulting in an insurance claim, unless Your Policy specifically says that 
We will cover such losses or expenses.
So, Im satisfied that the policy explained what was excluded under the policy and that this 
meant Mr W couldnt charge for his time in dealing with the claim. Im aware that Mr W has 
said that esure didnt make the exclusions either fully or partly known to him. These arent 
unusual exclusions, so I wouldnt have expected esure to have specifically highlighted them. 
The policy booklet also said:
So that You are clear on what You are covered for, We recommend You read this booklet. 
We ask You to do this because no insurance can cover everything. If You are still unsure of 
the extent of Your cover, or anything else mentioned in this booklet, please do call Us
So, I think esure explained that policyholders should read the policy booklet, why they 
should do so and what to do if they had any concerns, including about what wasnt covered 
by the policy.
Ive thought about all of the above carefully. Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint or 
require esure to do anything further, as I think it dealt with the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman