DRN-4113745
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt with
their Home Emergency claim in respect of a leaking boiler, and of consequent damage due
to the delay in repairing it. The claim was dealt with on Admirals behalf by loss adjusters
although for convenience I shall refer to Admiral throughout.
What happened
In late January 2022 Mr and Mrs H noticed that their boiler was leaking. Mr H reported this to
Admiral, and an engineer was sent out. The engineer identified the problem but they didnt 
have the part at hand to fix it. They also said that the boiler was at risk as it didnt meet 
safety standards. This related to missing flue brackets and a fire plate. The leak continued 
and Mr and Mrs H had to place buckets under it to catch the water.
Mr and Mrs H expected to be contacted again the same day, but heard nothing further. Mr H 
chased up for a reply and also advised Admiral that the engineer had broken the catch on
his loft hatch cover. He was eventually told the late the next day (Friday) by Admiral that it
couldnt fund the required repair due to Industry-recognised standards not being met. It
nevertheless said that it would find out from the engineer whether the fixing of the at risk
items would mean that the repair would be covered. It said that Mr and Mrs H could appoint
a contractor and present the invoice for reimbursement.
The weekend intervened, and the report had still not arrived on the Monday. Mr and Mrs H
were concerned that the leak was getting worse and had started to affect the dining room
ceiling. They found a contractor to repair the boiler, which was carried out on the
Wednesday. The cost was £120. Mr and Mrs H also said they were told by the contractor 
and by the boiler manufacturer that the brackets/fire plate for the flue didnt need to be fitted 
by a registered engineer. I understand that Admiral received its engineers report the next 
day and contacted Mr and Mrs H who advised it the repairs had been carried out.
Mr and Mrs H made a complaint to Admiral. They asked for the reimbursement of their costs.
Mr H also said he had repaired the loft hatch and wanted reimbursement for that. He pointed
out that the leak had caused damage to the dining room ceiling and the lath and plaster wall
around the boiler.
Admiral said that the engineer had offered to drain down the system but that Mr and Mrs H
had declined the offer. It further apologised for not sending the engineers report, for causing
confusion about who to address the complaint to and for failing to update them about the
engineers report on the Monday. For this it offered £100 compensation, which Mr and Mrs H 
declined.
Admiral further said that it was reasonable for it to decline to deal with the repair until it
received further information from its engineer, and that it had no liability for the consequent
damage to the dining room ceiling or the lath and plaster wall. It also said that under the
terms of the policy it will settle a claim either by arranging an emergency contractor or on a
reimbursement basis. It said Mr and Mrs H hadnt sent it sufficient evidence about the
assertion that the issues with the boiler could be repaired without the need for an engineer,
or of the damage to the loft hatch.
Mr and Mrs H rejected the offer of compensation. They further said that at no stage had the
engineer offered to drain down the system or advise them of the consequences of leaving
the leak unrepaired. They also said it was unreasonable to expect them to provide evidence
of the content of the telephone call with the boiler manufacturer.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that Admiral should
pay for the cost of repair to the boiler, on receipt of an itemised invoice, and that the £100
compensation offered by Admiral was reasonable. Admiral later agreed to pay the cost of the
repair to the loft hatch. They said however that Admiral wasnt liable for the damage caused
by the leak as this wasnt covered under the Home Emergency policy.
Mr and Mrs H pointed out that they had sent the itemised invoice. They felt that as Admiral 
was responsible for the damage caused by the leak, they shouldnt have to make a further
claim on their home insurance.
I issued a provisional decision. I essentially agreed with the Investigators view, but my 
findings concerning the potential liability of Admiral for the consequent damage, were 
different.
Admiral accepted my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs H did not respond to those findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below, in italics:
claim handling
The engineer came out on the same day that Mr and Mrs H made the claim. Their report
said that the boiler was at risk because the flue wasnt attached by brackets and there was
no fire guard. So they couldnt carry out the repair before Admiral said there was policy
cover.
I think Mr and Mrs H expected the engineer to return the same day with the relevant part and
carry out the repair. Admirals reason for not immediately carrying out the repair was
because of the boiler being at risk and therefore not complying with industry recognised
standards. Yet I think it took far too long to establish whether the at risk items could be
repaired and then the actual repair carried out. I appreciate that it was in the hands of its
engineer, but the report was very brief and it took a while before it could establish whether it
was liable for the repairs.
Admiral did tell Mr and Mrs H, albeit after Mr H did lot of chasing around, that they could get
a contractor and be reimbursed. This was late on the Friday, but Mr and Mrs H did then have
the option to do that. And I note that they did have heating and hot water in the meantime.
The terms of the policy say that it will arrange for one of our authorised contractors to get in 
touch with you to make an appointment, or settle your claim on a reimbursement basis. So I
think Mr and Mrs H were given a poor service over whether it would do the repairs but on the
facts of this case, I think the compensation offered for this, of £50 was reasonable.loft hatch
Admiral has agreed to pay for this  the cost is £5 and will be added, with interest, to the
amount it pays for the boiler repairs. Mr and Mrs H dont need to show proof of payment.
cost of repairs
Admiral should clearly have paid the cost of the repairs. Mr and Mrs H sent it the contractors
bill well over a year ago. I think it gave clear details of the repair and it is in the name of a
Gas Safe registered contractor. It should add interest to this invoice payable from the date
paid until reimbursement.
liability for the consequent damage
I appreciate that the policy doesnt cover loss or damage caused by the emergency. But
Admiral might still be liable if its engineer caused the damage. The engineers report says
that they offered to drain the system, which Mr and Mrs H didnt want, as it would have left
them without heating or hot water. But they vehemently deny that the engineer offered to do
this. At the time, the boiler was leaking but buckets were catching the water. So, whether or
not the engineer offered to drain the system, bearing in mind it was late January and
Mr and Mrs H have small children, it seems likely to me that they would have opted to put up
with the inconvenience of monitoring and emptying buckets rather than going without heating
and hot water. And I bear in mind that at the time Admiral offered for them to use their own
contractor, no other damage was occurring, or at least none that was visible.
Mr and Mrs H tell us the damage is to the dining room ceiling which requires redecoration
and the lath and plaster wall surrounding the boiler. However we also dont know when
exactly the boiler started leaking. I cant say that its likely that Admirals contractor was
responsible for the water damage. Mr and Mrs H will have to make a claim on their home
policy if they want this dealt with by insurance.
other compensation
I understand that Admiral also offered to pay £25 compensation for Mr and Mrs H not being
advised clearly about who to address their complaint to, and £25 for the failure to send them
the engineers report. This makes total compensation offered of £100, which I think is
reasonable.
As Admiral accepts those findings and as Mr and Mrs H havent responded, I remain 
persuaded by my findings. These are now final and form part of this final decision.
Putting things right
Admiral should pay £120 for the repairs to the boiler and £5 for the loft hatch, a total of £125.
It should add simple interest* at 8% per year from the date Mr and Mrs H paid for those
items until reimbursement.
Admiral should also pay £100 compensation.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require Admiral to deduct tax from any award of interest. It
must give Mr and Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if they
ask for one.My final decision
I uphold the complaint and to require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman