DRN-3555014
The complaint
Mr M and Ms J are unhappy esure Insurance Limited (esure) declined their home insurance 
claim.
For ease of reference, Ill refer to Mr M throughout.
What happened
The circumstances are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in detail here. 
The key events are as follows:
In January 2021, Mr M made a claim on his home insurance policy. He said over a 
period of approximately four weeks, water had entered his property via the front 
porch/conservatory, and this had caused significant damage to the floor.
In February 2021, esure told Mr M they didnt think the damage had been caused by 
an insured peril. They said based on a surveyors findings water had entered the 
property due to building faults with the porch and wear and tear. Mr M also arranged 
for his own contractor to attend, and they carried out some temporary repairs. 
However, the damage to the floor continued to worsen. 
In March 2021, esure arranged for a second report to be completed. This surveyor 
also concluded the damage had been caused due to building faults with the porch.
In April 2021, esure sent Mr M a final response explaining their position remained the 
same and the claim was declined as there was no insured peril. Mr M didnt think this 
was fair. He said esure should settle the claim under the accidental damage section 
of the policy. He also said the damage may have been caused due to storms that 
had taken place previously on unspecified dates. esure didnt agree and said neither 
of the two surveyors who inspected Mr Ms property identified any storm or accidental 
damage. So, they didnt see any reason to change their decision. 
An investigator at our service then considered the complaint. She didnt uphold it and said 
based on the surveyors reports esure had acted fairly and reasonably by declining the 
claim. 
Mr M then requested a final decision. The investigator asked him for his reasons, but he 
didnt provide any.
Ive therefore considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules and appropriate industry guidelines esure were required to consider 
Mr Ms claim promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt decline it unreasonably.
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by home insurance. Only damage caused 
by one of the one-off perils (or events) listed in the policy will be covered. If the damage can 
be shown to be caused by such an event, then the insurer must pay the claim unless it is 
able to rely on one of the policy exclusions to decline it. As such, although Mr M has a home 
insurance policy, this doesnt mean every claim he attempts to make will be successful. 
Mr M has said he thinks the claim should be covered under the accidental damage section of 
his policy.
The policy defines accidental damage as :
Single, sudden, unexpected, physical damage or loss, which was not deliberate.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think esure acted 
unreasonably by declining to settle the claim under this or any other policy term. Ill now 
explain why. 
I've reviewed the first surveyors report and note that it says: 
The point of claim is to the insureds front porch area of the property, the room has 
sustained an area of what appears to be long term damage to the solid engineered 
floor covering . A large area of the solid wood capping to the flooring has completely
lifted in areas, following the heavily saturated floor covering .The cause of the heavily 
saturated floor covering has been traced back to the driveway drainage and a 
blocked downpipe.
Towards the bottom of the report, the surveyor has ticked a box which says there is no 
insured peril and further boxes which indicate the damage has been caused by wear and 
tear and structural faults. 
The second report says:
We have been asked to attend the risk address following the policy holder reporting 
damp appearing in the front porch/conservatory. We have carried out full 
investigations into the moisture finding the cause of the water being several building 
faults in the exterior walls towards the drive. The porch exterior wall is at the lowest 
point of the drive a few inches from a previously blocked drain. There is then a gap in 
the brick work before the wall for water to drain into. We have found the exterior wall 
is also no longer properly sealed to the wall with several large gaps that water is 
evidently travelling through. Until these building faults are addressed, we cannot 
carry out any drying works.
The report also summarised the reason for the damage as general building faults to the 
exterior walls of the porch and a break down in sealant across the ceiling, walls, and floor . 
This in turn had created areas for water to ingress over time.
As each of these reports were completed by suitably qualified independent experts and 
included clear photographs, I dont think esure acted unreasonably by relying on the 
recommendations within them. And concluding the damage had been caused by building 
faults and wear and tear, neither of which are insured perils. Im also satisfied the reports 
rule out a successful claim under the accidental damage section of the policy as they dont 
suggest the damage was caused by a single sudden event.  
Mr M has suggested the damage could have been caused by a series of storms. Even if he 
could identify an occasion where the weather conditions met the policy definition of a storm ( which he hasnt) he would still need to show the storm was the dominant cause of the 
damage. While I dont doubt that a storm could have increased the damage and impacted 
the amount of water entering his property, this wouldnt take away from the building faults 
that appear to have worsened over time. Its also worth noting that neither of the two 
surveyors identified any storm damage when they inspected the property. So, I dont think 
esure acted unreasonably by declining to agree the damage had been caused by a storm.
Id also like to stress to Mr M that Ive carefully reviewed all the information hes provided 
from his own contractor. However, as this doesnt indicate the damage was caused by an 
insured peril, Im satisfied it doesnt change things. Mr M was also advised that esure would 
consider any additional reports he wished to provide. Under the circumstances, this is all Id 
reasonably expect them to do. 
Finally, Mr M has said the condition of his property has unfortunately further deteriorated, 
due to the delay in settling the claim. Im sorry to hear this. However, as esure acted 
reasonably by declining the claim last year, they arent responsible for any subsequent 
damage. I also havent identified any avoidable delays caused by esure when they 
considered the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Ms J to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman