The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they're not receiving the full benefits of their insurance policy 
with Vitality Health Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B took out their joint life assurance policy in 2017. The policy provides a 
selection of benefits - vouchers, contributions towards the financing of services and tech 
devices - which are earnt through the collection of points, awarded for the completion of 
health-related activities - workouts, etc. 
At the crux of the complaint is the reliability of the point collection system. Mr and Mrs B feel 
that the app provided by Vitality fails to correctly record all their activities and in turn fails to 
award them points fairly. 
They have had to contact Vitality on numerous occasions since May 2019 to go through 
trouble shooting processes and to get their points awarded manually. They are also unhappy 
that when vouchers have been successfully awarded they have then had difficulties in 
redeeming them. 
Vitality has, on a number of occasions, taken action to manually add points, to help Mr and 
Mrs B try to fix the issue. And it's also made payment to compensate for the trouble caused. 
But it didn't uphold their complaint about the issues.
Vitality has said that it's important for devices to be 'synched' regularly to ensure points are 
awarded correctly and for devices that are no longer in use to be removed from the account. 
It has also highlighted its willingness to take the action to bring the account up to date 
manually when requested.
Mr and Mr B referred their complaint to this service but our investigator reached a similar 
conclusion to that reached by Vitality.
In respect of Mr and Mrs B's concerns about the vouchers the investigator noted that the 
policy terms indicated that they would be accepted at participating stores, so responsibility 
for non-acceptance could lie with the retailers rather than Vitality. 
In respect of Mr and Mrs B's primary concern, the failure to award points correctly, the 
investigator noted that the initial query in May 2019 had been dealt with, with the points 
applied retrospectively and a payment made. He highlighted that prior to May 2019, since 
the policy started, a great deal of data and points had been applied correctly.
DRN-1517294He explained that Mr and Mrs B appeared to have a large number of devices associated with 
their account and that a combination of removing unnecessary devices and re-
syncing the remainder might work to correct the situation, as had been the case previously.
Ultimately, he felt unable to conclude that Vitality should be held responsible for the 
problems. 
Mr and Mrs B didn't accept this. They didn't think it was fair, or a contractual requirement, 
that they check the account and re-sync their devices daily. They provided further 
information showing apparent discrepancies. 
The investigator wasn't persuaded to change his view as he felt that in all the circumstances 
(the previously successful working of the account, the use of multiple devices and the fact 
that re-syncing did often appear to work) he couldn't confidently conclude the problem was 
Vitality's.
Mr and Mrs B reiterated their concerns about having to check the points daily, saying that as 
far as they were concerned the points were showing in their devices but not on the account. 
They provided further screen prints showing more apparent discrepancies. 
But as no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
I appreciate this must be a frustrating matter for Mr and Mrs B. But I haven't seen 
sufficient evidence to persuade me, on balance, that there is a fault with the way in which 
Vitality is operating its system and, further, that such a fault is what's causing the problem. 
I understand this may sound unsatisfactory as a conclusion. But with so many variables in 
play - multiple users, multiple devices, different ways to earn points and the not uncommon 
fragility of this type of IT system - I don't think it I can reasonably conclude, on balance, that 
it's Vitality that's doing something wrong. 
It has made the reasonable point that it operates this process across thousands of policy 
holders and while that may be of little comfort to Mr and Mrs B, it does suggest that 
there isn't a systemic problem.
And I note that Vitality is always prepared to manually check the account and bring things 
up-to-date where necessary. I acknowledge that having to check and re-check on a daily 
basis isn't ideal, but is a solution that seems to ensure that the accounts are ultimately kept 
up to date. 
I'm sure that if the problems continue Vitality will be happy to explore other potential 
solutions. But as it stands, I don't feel I can reasonably uphold the complaint and direct 
Vitality to take any further actions beyond the offers of help and support that have already 
been made.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman