DRN-3190229
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled his claim on his 
home insurance.     
What happened
Mr B had a home insurance policy thats underwritten by Lloyds to cover the property he 
lives in with his family. In October 2020 the toilet in the family bathroom overflowed causing 
damage to the bathroom and dining room beneath it. A leak was discovered behind a vanity 
unit in the bathroom that covered the toilet and sink. Mr B arranged for the leak to be 
repaired and contacted Lloyds to make a claim.
In November 2020 Lloyds sent a contractor to inspect the damage and scope the repairs. 
Work began in January 2021, but at this point damage to the floor beneath the bath was 
discovered as well as a crack to the bath itself, which meant it needed to be replaced. Mr B 
was advised to stop using the bath at this stage and Lloyds said the whole floor would need 
to be stripped out. 
Shortly after this there was a second leak from behind the vanity unit that damaged the 
newly fitted one. Lloyds said it wouldnt cover the cost for a new vanity unit as the leak was 
from an old fitting that they hadnt touched as part of the repair. It also said the crack in the 
bath had happened gradually and wasnt claim related so this wouldnt be covered either. 
As he wasnt happy with the work that had been completed Mr B appointed his own expert to 
review the damage and work needed. The report commented that the bathroom had been 
left in an unsafe state. 
Mr B made a number of complaints to Lloyds throughout the claim. Lloyds upheld some of 
his complaint points and agreed the service provided had been poor. It offered a total of 
£350 compensation to make up for this. However it didnt uphold all of Mr Bs points and 
maintained that the damage to the bath and new vanity unit werent claim related and 
wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the outstanding issues and recommended Mr Bs complaint 
be upheld, and asked Lloyds to:
Pay a disturbance allowance of £35 per day from 14 January 2021 until the date the
claim was cash settled, due to the fact he didnt have a working bath or shower at his 
home. 
Pay £449 to match the total cost of repairs to the bathroom, including a replacement bath 
and vanity unit. 
Reimburse the cost of the dehumidifiers Mr B paid to use to dry the bathroom and dining 
room.
Pay an additional £150 compensation.
Mr B accepted our investigators recommendations, however Lloyds didnt. It said the 
damage to the bath was gradually occurring and therefore not covered under the policy. It 
also said the vanity unit was damaged due to a leak caused by Mr Bs plumber so it wasnt 
liable for replacing it. Further it said as the bath wasnt covered under the policy, it wasnt 
liable to pay disturbance allowance. And it didnt agree the dehumidifiers Mr B had paid for 
were necessary. Finally, it didnt agree it should pay any further compensation as it said the 
£350 already offered was sufficient. It asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has raised a number of complaint points throughout the claim, however Ive only 
addressed those that are still outstanding. 
Bath
Lloyds has said it wont include the cost of a replacement bath in the settlement, as the 
damage is unrelated to the claim and happened gradually and this is excluded under the 
policy.
Ive considered this and I agree it is difficult to determine the cause of the damage to the 
bath. While the bath is in the area where the floor has been damaged by the leak, it is held in 
a set metal frame above the floor so it seems unlikely it would have been impacted by the 
rotting floor underneath. So I agree there isnt enough evidence to say it is claim related.
However I also dont think Lloyds has done enough to show that the wear and tear exclusion 
would fairly apply. Lloyds contractor inspected the damage originally in November 2020 and 
provided a detailed report. This had no mention of any damage or deterioration of the bath. 
So I think its fair to assume that no damage was present at this point. As the crack in the 
bath was first noted in January 2021, this means it must have happened between November 
and January. And as no problems were noted in the initial report, I dont think Lloyds has 
provided enough evidence to say the damage happened over time.
For that reason I dont think Lloyds has fairly declined Mr Bs claim for damage to the bath. 
And as the bath needed to be replaced, I agree with our investigator that Lloyds should pay 
for the cost of the new bath that was installed, as included in the quote provided by Mr B.
Disturbance allowance
When Lloyds contractors discovered the damage to the bath they advised Mr B that it 
should no longer be used. This left Mr B and his family without shower facilities at the 
property. In these circumstances this service would usually expect Lloyds to provide 
alternative accommodation. However as this didnt happen, and I agree Lloyds are liable for 
the damage to the bath, then I agree with our investigators recommendation that Lloyds 
should pay Mr B disturbance allowance from the date he was advised not to use the bath up 
until the settlement is paid. This should be paid at a rate of £35 per day, in line with this 
services established approach.
Vanity unit
Lloyds has said that the second leak was due to one of the existing pipes eroding, which 
happened over time and isnt related to the first claim. So the cost of a second replacement vanity unit wouldnt be covered as part of this claim.
It isnt clear the exact cause of the second leak, and no evidence has been provided to show 
this, however Lloyds say it came from the existing pipework. While Lloyds contractors 
werent responsible for stopping the original leak, they did re-install the new vanity unit. And 
as part of this they carried out tests on the existing pipework. Lloyds has said its contractor 
also replaced a pan connector pipe that appeared faulty as part of this work. 
As the second leak is from the same area of pipework that Lloyds checked as part of its 
installation of the vanity unit, Im persuaded that the leak is most likely from the replacement 
pan connector that Lloyds contractor fitted or from the remaining pipework that it checked. 
Either way, I agree with our investigator that Lloyds should be liable for the cost of a 
replacement. As either the pipework wasnt checked properly when the vanity unit was 
installed, or the new pan connector wasnt correctly installed. So I agree with our investigator 
that it should pay for the cost of a new vanity unit.
Compensation 
Lloyds has already offered £350 compensation, which it has said is for previous issues that 
were raised by Mr B and are now resolved. However from looking at the notes from the 
claim, I agree with our investigator that it took longer than it should have to settle and that 
this was due to delays caused by Lloyds that could have been avoided. In particular, when 
work began in January 2021, Lloyds discovered additional damage which meant work had to 
stop in order for this to be investigated. Had this been identified in the first visit, this could 
have avoided a further delay. Further, Lloyds took a long time to pay a settlement to Mr B 
which wasnt agreed until March. And this was largely due to the disagreement around cover 
for the bath.
Mr B has a young family and the property only has one bathroom with shower facilities. So 
any delay in getting this repaired and usable again would have been very distressing and 
inconvenient for Mr B. 
Additionally to this, Mr Bs own report comments on the poor state the bathroom was left in 
by Lloyds contractors and this would have added to the distress of the claim.  
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that an additional £150 compensation should 
be paid to Mr B to make up for the delays and the impact they have had on him. 
Dehumidifiers
Mr B has said he had to pay for dehumidifiers to dry his property after the leak and thinks 
Lloyds should reimburse him for this cost. Lloyds has said that as the whole bathroom 
needed to be stripped out, it wasnt necessary for drying to take place and therefore has 
declined this cost. 
While I understand Lloyds position that drying wasnt required as the damaged areas 
needed to be removed, this didnt happen for many months after the first report. And during 
the first two months of this time, Mr B and his family continued to use the bathroom as it 
contained the only shower facilities at the property. Because of this, I understand why he felt 
the need to dry the room, rather than put up with the damp conditions during this time. 
As progress of the claim was subject to avoidable delays, I think its reasonable that Lloyds 
should cover Mr Bs costs for drying the room. Mr B should provide proof of these costs to 
Lloyds so that it may reimburse him.Putting things right
Lloyds has already agreed a settlement of £5,545, less the £500 policy excess. And the 
quote Mr B provided for all the work, including a replacement bath and new vanity unit 
amounted to £5,994. As Ive agreed Lloyds should pay for both these items, I will require 
Lloyds to pay the difference between what theyve agreed to settle and the full quote, which 
amounts to an additional £449.
I will also require Lloyds to pay £35 disturbance allowance per day from 14 January 2021 
until the date the claim settlement is paid.   
If Mr B can provide Lloyds with proof of the cost of the dehumidifiers, Lloyds should 
reimburse Mr B for these costs plus 8% interest from the date they were incurred until the 
date payment is made. 
Lloyds should also pay Mr B an additional £150 compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited to carry out the actions as described above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman