DRN-2978688
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ageas Insurance Limited voided his motor insurance policy and 
declined his claim.
What happened
Mr M had a motor insurance policy with Ageas. It covered Mr M and his wife. Mr Ms wife 
had an accident in which she lost control of the car and drove it into a wall. This damaged 
the wall and another vehicle, as well as Mr Ms car.
Mr M claimed on his motor insurance policy. But in the process of looking into the claim, 
Ageas discovered that hed previously had an insurance policy for his motorbike cancelled. 
Ageas said that if Mr M had told it about the previous cancellation when he applied for the 
policy, it wouldnt have been willing to insure him. It explained that it was voiding the policy 
from the start date. This effectively meant that the insurance had never been in place, and 
so Mr M and his wife hadnt been insured at the time of the accident. So Ageas declined 
Mr Ms claim. And it refunded the money hed paid for the policy to Mr M.
Mr M was unhappy with Ageass decision. He didnt think it was fair. He explained that he 
didnt realise he needed to tell Ageas about the cancellation of the motorbike insurance 
policy.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said she thought Ageas had asked clearly whether any driver to be insured on 
the policy had had any previous insurance cancelled in the previous five years, and this 
wasnt limited to car insurance. So she didnt think Mr M had taken reasonable care to 
answer the question honestly. And Ageas had been entitled to void Mr Ms policy.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator, for similar reasons.
Mr M had a responsibility under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA) to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out 
the policy. The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
CIDRA sets out a number of things to consider when deciding if a consumer has failed to 
take reasonable care. One of these is what questions the consumer was asked. Ive seen a 
screenshot of part of the online application that Mr M would have seen when he applied for 
the insurance through a comparison website. It includes the question Have you or any 
additional driver on this policy ever had their insurance declined, cancelled, voided or had 
special terms imposed?.
Ive also seen a copy of the welcome letter Ageas sent Mr M with the policy documents. It 
explained clearly, in the second paragraph, that it was important that the information Mr M 
had provided was accurate. And it said Failure to disclose correct and complete information 
to the best of your knowledge and belief may result in increased premiums, refusal of a claim 
or not being fully paid, your policy being cancelled or being made null & void and treated as 
if it never existed.
In the welcome letter which Mr M was sent with the policy documents, Mr M was asked to 
check the documents, which included a Statement of Insurance. Against both Mr M and his 
wifes details it said Has any previous insurance been refused, voided, cancelled or had 
special terms imposed in the last 5 years. The stated answer was shown as no in both 
cases.
At the top of the Statement of Insurance was a prominent box containing a request to Mr M 
to read the information carefully and to get in touch immediately if any information was 
incorrect or missing. It again warned of the consequences of not doing so, including the 
policy being cancelled or being made null and void and treated as if it never existed.
Mr M has told us he didnt deliberately mislead Ageas. He says he didnt realise that he 
needed to disclose that hed had a motorbike insurance policy cancelled when he was 
applying for car insurance. 
I accept that it may be that Mr M didnt misrepresent his position deliberately. But Im 
satisfied that the question he was asked about whether hed ever had previous insurance 
declined, cancelled or voided was clear. The answers Mr M had given were incorporated in 
the Statement of Insurance that Mr M was asked to check. And there was nothing that 
limited the question to car insurance policies. Im satisfied that Mr M should have told Ageas 
about the previously cancelled policy. And in not doing so, Im satisfied that he failed to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
I now need to consider what Ageas was entitled to do as a result of the misrepresentation. 
An insurer can only take action as a result of a misrepresentation if its whats known as a 
qualifying misrepresentation, as set out in CIDRA. For that to be the case, Ageas would 
need to show either that it wouldnt have offered the policy at all, or that it would have offered 
cover on different terms, if the misrepresentation hadnt been made.
Ageas has referred to its internal car insurance underwriting guide. And Im satisfied, having 
examined it, that Ageas would have refused to insure Mr M if it had known that his motorbike 
policy had been cancelled. This means Im satisfied that Mr Ms failure to tell Ageas about 
the previous cancellation amounted to a qualifying misrepresentation. And Im satisfied that 
the action taken by Ageas in avoiding his policy from the start was in line with CIDRA. The 
effect of avoiding the policy is that its treated as if it had never existed.
The fact that Ageas was entitled to avoid Mr Ms policy from the start means hes not entitled 
to claim for the accident his wife had around eight months into the policy term. This is 
because, in effect, the policy didnt exist at the time.
Im aware that Mr M is also unhappy about the way Ageas has dealt with a claim by the third 
party whose car was damaged in the accident. But when Ageas sent Mr M its final response 
to his complaint, it told Mr M that hed need to raise any query or complaint about the third 
partys claims, the costs incurred or the recovery process for those costs separately. So Ive 
not those issues here.My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman