DRN-3596808
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has rejected the claim 
they made under sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation 
to a solar panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs T are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
In or around October 2018, Mr and Mrs T were contacted by a representative of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After being visited by a representative of P, Mr and Mrs T decided to purchase the 
system and finance it through a ten year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The 
system was subsequently installed.
In January 2021 the CMC made a claim to Shawbrook on Mr and Mrs Ts behalf under 
section 75 of the Act. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs T to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
the system would generate free electricity;
the system would be self-funding; and
the feed in tariff (FIT) and savings on their electricity bills would provide enough 
income to cover the monthly loan payments.
Shawbrook didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs T or that there 
were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr and Mrs T and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
1. there were three different versions of Ps quote, with different figures in them, and 
only one of these had been signed;
2. a copy of the quote had not been sent to them to read in their own time until after the 
system was installed;
3. the salesman had said that if the system did not perform as estimated in the first year 
then P would compensate Mr and Mrs T, but this hadnt happened;
4. the salesman had said that someone would inspect the system after three months to 
check it was working, but this hadnt happened either;
5. the system is underperforming, so Shawbrook should arrange for it to be inspected;
6. P offered free monitoring of the OWL system (one of the optional extras), but after 
two years it had begun charging for this service;
7. another optional extra, the Boiler Doctor, had not been installed because it was not 
compatible with the system.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
New complaint points
Points 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 in the list above are new points which have not been raised with 
Shawbrook before, and so I have no power to consider them. 
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. In this case the relevant law includes sections 56, 75 and 140A of the Act.
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. As 
Mr and Mrs T paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs T could claim against 
Shawbrook (the creditor) for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way they could have claimed against P (the supplier). So Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs T and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit agreement. In 
this case, the CMC relies on the alleged misrepresentation of the system.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide on the balance of probabilities  
that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the evidence that 
is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs T say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both parties. These include the 
credit agreement and three versions of the solar quote. Two of these are titled Your 
Bespoke Quote and are dated 19 and 23 October 2018. Another is titled Getting Started 
and is dated 23 October. The quote dated 19 October has been signed; the others have not. 
Ive considered all of these, along with Mr and Mrs Ts testimony and recollection of the 
sales meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened.The quotes are detailed documents that set out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that one of the quotes (but in this case, not which one) formed a central part 
of the sales process and the representative of P would have discussed this in detail with Mr 
and Mrs T, explaining any benefits of the system, prior to them agreeing to enter into the 
contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
signed quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the 
salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with 
Mr and Mrs Ts version of events, when considering if there have been any untrue 
statements of fact.
I think that the signed quote, dated 19 October, is of the most relevance. Firstly, as I have 
said, it is the only one signed by Mr T, so it is likely to be the one referred to in the meeting. 
Secondly, it gives an annual generation figure of 3,134 kWh (on pages 11 and 20), which 
matches the figure in the MCS certificate which was produced when the system was 
installed; the other quotes each give a different figure, 2,883 kWh. Thirdly, the signed quote 
states on the page headed EPC (page 8) that the then current energy efficiency rating was 
80% (in band C), and could potentially reach 92% (band A) with the system, and I know from 
having dealt with many other cases that these are typical figures. The other version of the 
Bespoke quote gives no percentage for the first figure and 12% for the second; both of 
these figures are in the lowest band, G, and are unheard of. That is likely to be an error, and 
so I doubt that this version of the quote is reliable. It is unclear why it even exists (both 
versions have the same number of panels and the same optional extras). But the signed 
quote gives slightly better figures than the other one for the systems estimated performance 
(although there is not much difference), and so I think there can be no disadvantage or 
unfairness to Mr and Mrs T if I refer to the signed one from now on. The excerpts below are 
taken from the signed quote.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed (i.e. the cash price of the system), 
the deposit, the interest to be charged, the total amount payable, the term of the loan and 
the contractual monthly repayments.
FIT payments and savings
Mr and Mrs T have said that they were told their monthly loan repayments would be covered, 
or self-funded by the FIT payments and the savings on their energy bills. Ive considered 
the quote that was provided by P as well as Mr and Mrs Ts recollections of their meeting 
with Ps representative to decide what is most likely to have been said.
Pages 28 and 29 of the quote set out the estimated income Mr and Mrs T could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system and savings on their electricity bills.These figures take the optional extras into account. I think that this is clear that Mr and Mrs T 
could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of £504.62, which results in an 
average monthly income of £42. Im satisfied that the same document set out that there 
would be a monthly loan repayment due of £122.74. As a result, Im not able to conclude 
that Mr and Mrs T were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT 
payments and savings on their energy bills.
On page 23 there are three tables showing repayments over 60 months, 120 months and 
180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 months as this is the length of the loan that Mr 
and Mrs T entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 120 
monthly payments of £122.74. For each year of the ten year loan it shows the expected 
grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months, and 
subtracts the monthly loan repayment, to give an average difference between the monthly 
return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. This gives a negative 
figure for the first eight years of the loan (highlighted in red), meaning that the system would 
not begin to make enough money to cover the loan payments until year nine (in green).
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mr and Mrs T could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments and savings, as well as their expected contractual monthly 
loan repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income and 
savings to the monthly loan repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall income they 
could expect to receive by way of FIT income and any additional savings would not be 
immediately sufficient to cover the monthly loan repayments. Ive carefully thought about Mr 
and Mrs Ts version of events. However, as Ive found that this quote did form a central part 
of the sales process which the salesperson went through at the meeting, I dont think I can 
reasonably find that they were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by 
the FIT income and savings. (And the other two versions of the quote are very similar.)
Self-funding
Ill now consider whether P told Mr and Mrs T that the system would be self-funding from the 
outset. In doing so Ill again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to 
have happened.
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand. On balance Im also satisfied that the 
salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the outset. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system wouldnt be self-funding from the start. 
I think the quote is clear that there would be a difference between the expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mr and Mrs T were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain period of time. The Putting it all together page of the Getting 
Started quote states in large font that it would take nine years for the overall benefits that Mr 
and Mrs T could expect to receive to match the cash price of the system.
Returning to the signed Your Bespoke Quote, pages 18 and 19, headed What will you 
earn and save per year? have a table detailing the estimated performance of the system 
over 25 years. This too shows that in year nine the overall benefits that Mr and Mrs T could 
expect to receive would reach the cash price of the system. Again, the years of shortfall are 
highlighted in red, and the profitable years are in green. (To save space I have only shown 
the first 13 years below.)(The same table shows that the total amount payable under the loan agreement, £14,828, 
would be reached during year 12, although that amount is not shown in the quote but only in 
the loan agreement.)
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs T that the system would pay for its 
cash price in 9 years, and for the loan in about 12 years, as supported by the graph and the 
table above, which were included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of fact, and 
Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered a loss, then that could amount to a misrepresentation. So Ive gone 
on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the contract 
between P and Mr and Mrs T.
Performance
The MCS certificate and quote set out that the system is expected to produce 3,134 kWh a 
year. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ts FIT statements and can see that their system, on 
average, has generated 2,831 kWh a year. This is somewhat less than estimated by P at the 
point of sale, but is still within 90% of Ps estimate, so Im satisfied that the system is 
performing as expected, in terms of energy generation, if not financially. So the reason Mr 
and Mrs T have not seen the expected financial returns is not because the system is 
defective, but for some other cause. For this reason, I do not think an inspection of the 
system is necessary for me to fairly resolve this complaint.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these is fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between 2016 and 
2020, and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale, and I think 
this explains why Mr and Mrs T havent been receiving the financial returns they may have 
been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system have 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS at the time. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for P to have 
used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs T could 
have expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns may 
not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was due 
to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs T entered into the 
contract.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs T 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman