DRN-4136679
The complaint
Miss P complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Vauxhall Finance plc, who Ill call Vauxhall Finance.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
Miss P has been represented by her mother but as Miss P is named on the finance 
agreement, and for convenience, Ill refer only to her in this decision. I mean no disrespect to 
Miss Ps mother when doing so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Vauxhall Finance, but I think this car hasnt been of satisfactory 
quality and they need to put things right for Miss P.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss P acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Vauxhall Finance, who are also 
the supplier of the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss P. The car here was about 
three and a half years old and had already completed about 28,000 miles. So, I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect it to be fault free, as would perhaps be the case with a 
brand new car.
The relevant legislation explains that when we think about whether goods have been of 
satisfactory quality we should consider whether they have been durable. Im not persuaded 
this car has been durable as the timing/cam belt failed at about 44,000 miles and online 
research and advice from our internal experts suggests the belt should last 100,000 miles or 
more than ten years if a car has been serviced correctly. It therefore seems likely this cam 
belt has failed prematurely, and the car has therefore not been durable.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault such as this, so I 
think Vauxhall Finance should arrange that repair for Miss P. 
Its not fair to expect Miss P to pay for a car she hasnt been able to use since February 
2023. So, Vauxhall Finance should refund any finance instalments shes paid from the date 
the car broke down (7 February 2023) until the date the car is repaired and returned to Miss 
P. Vauxhall Finance should add interest to any refund as Miss P has been deprived of the 
money. If any finance instalments were due but havent been paid in that period Vauxhall 
Finance should waive them
Miss P has been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to have the car recovered, has 
been chased by the dealership for storage costs, and hasnt been kept mobile so has had to 
stay with a friend, closer to work, so she could get in on time. In the circumstances I think 
Vauxhall Finance should pay her £250 in compensation.
Miss P has also explained shes continued to insure the car whilst its been off the road, and 
I think Vauxhall Finance should provide a pro rata refund of any insurance shes had to pay 
since the car broke down and until the car is returned to Miss P. Theyll need to add interest 
to that refund as well, and for the same reasons. 
Theres a suggestion that the dealership may be seeking to charge storage costs. Its not fair 
for Miss P to incur those charges as a result of financing a car that was of unsatisfactory 
quality. So, Vauxhall Finance will need to pay those if a charge is raised. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Vauxhall Finance plc to:
Repair the car at no cost to Miss P.
Refund any finance instalments Miss P has paid since the car broke down on 7 
February 2023 and until the car is successfully repaired. Add 8% simple interest* per 
year to the refund, from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Pay Miss P £250 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Provide a pro-rata refund of any insurance costs Miss P has incurred if Miss P can 
provide proof of payment. Add 8% simple interest* per year to the refund, from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Miss Ps credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Pay any storage costs that Miss P may be charged by the dealership.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest they must 
give the consumer a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if the consumer asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman