DRN-2879482
The complaint
Ms O complains about poor customer service from Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) 
in connection with her current account, including that she didnt receive bank statements.
What happened
In August 2019 Ms O tried to make an international payment from her current account. 
Halifax thought the transaction was suspicious, and asked Ms O to send them additional 
details to prove the transaction was genuine. Halifax also suspended Ms Os access to her 
online banking.
But Ms O lives overseas. She says she had difficulties getting in touch with Halifax to 
discuss this. She says the difference in time zones meant theyd call her in the early hours of 
the morning - and it was expensive to call them at international rates.
So Ms O wrote to Halifax asking them to send her a bankers draft for the full remaining 
balance on her account and to post her the statements showing the balance. Once she 
received this, she intended to close her account. But Ms O didnt receive a response to this 
request, and referred things to us.
Ms O now says shed like to keep the account open. But shed still like to receive statements 
by post in future.
Following our involvement, Halifax updated the settings on Ms Os account so she could 
receive paper statements. Our investigator thought Halifax could have sorted this out quicker 
 and so recommended Halifax pay Ms O £100 for the trouble and upset it had caused. 
Halifax has agreed to pay this.
Ms O, however, says she still hasnt received any statements. Weve checked this with 
Halifax who say theyve now posted Ms O her statements from 1 April 2021 until the end of 
June 2021. And Halifax say that Ms O should receive statements in future.
Ms O has now asked the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So the complaint has now 
been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Halifax has now paid Ms O £100 for the trouble and upset it caused. And based on what Ive 
seen, that seems fair. In particular, it took them until March this year to update Ms Os 
preferences so she could receive paper statements  despite her having requested this back 
in 2019.
Ive thought about the other things that happened to Ms Os account. I see Halifax 
suspended Ms Os online banking after she tried to make an international payment. I note 
that the terms and conditions of Ms Os account allowed Halifax to refuse to make a 
payment if it seemed unusual- and in this case, Halifax says Ms O hadnt made an 
international payment previously, so it wanted to speak to her to make sure that she was the 
person who attempted to make the payment. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied this was 
in line with the terms and conditions of Ms Os account. And I dont think it was unreasonable 
for Halifax to have done this given this type of payment was unusual. I understand Ms Os 
access to online banking remains suspended. If Ms O now wishes to continue using online 
banking, she needs to contact Halifax to arrange this.
Finally, I note that Ms O still hasnt received copies of her bank statements. Halifax says it 
has updated the preferences on Ms Os account so she should receive these in future. I 
recognise that as Ms O lives overseas there may be delays to her receiving these.
In all the circumstances, I think that what Halifax has now offered to do is a fair resolution to 
Ms Os complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Ms Os complaint. I direct Bank of Scotland plc to send 
Ms O her statements if it hasnt already. Bank of Scotland plc has already paid Ms O £100 
for the trouble and upset it caused. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman