DRN-3723329
The complaint
Mr M complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly granted him credit he couldnt 
afford to repay. 
What happened
Vanquis opened a credit card account for Mr M in April 2020. This type of credit was an 
open-ended or running account facility and the credit limit was £500. 
Mr M said he had a low credit score and had county court judgements (CCJs) awarded 
against him. He said that Vanquiss checks were inadequate because it should have seen 
this and declined to lend to him. Mr M also told us that he had health issues and was on 
medication which impacted his ability to make rational decisions.
Vanquis didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said that it asked him about his income, checked 
his credit file and found that the credit card repayments would be affordable for him. Vanquis 
said that although Mr M had some adverse information on his credit file, it wasnt recent 
enough to lead it to decline his application. 
Mr M referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. They found that Vanquis didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the credit 
agreement. Mr M didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for his complaint to come 
to an ombudsman to review and resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending which 
lenders, such as Vanquis, need to abide by. Vanquis will be aware of these, and our 
approach to this type of lending is set out on our website, so I wont refer to the regulations 
in detail here but will summarise them. 
Before entering into a credit agreement, Vanquis needed to check that Mr M could afford to 
meet his repayments out of his usual means, within a reasonable period of time, without 
having to borrow further and without experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse 
consequences. The checks needed to be proportionate to the nature of the credit (the 
amount borrowed, for example) and to Mr Ms circumstances.
Vanquis asked Mr M about his salary which he said was £27,000, so it seems his net 
monthly pay was over £1,800. Mr M said his rent was £350 a month and Vanquis estimated 
that his monthly living costs came to about £484. Vanquis also checked Mr Ms credit file 
and said that this showed that he had about £700 in active external debt, with no defaulted 
accounts and no CCJs for 41 months. It provided a copy of the information it relied on, which 
supports these figures.
The regulations stated that a lender should not use the assumption of the amount necessary 
to make only the minimum payment each month and should consider the customers ability 
to repay the maximum amount of credit available under the agreement within a reasonable 
period of time. I think it was reasonable to consider that Mr M would be able to repay this 
credit without difficulty within a reasonable period of time, given the likely repayments 
relative to the credit limit he was offered and bearing in mind his income and rental costs.
I appreciate that Mr M had a CCJ however, this had been awarded in November 2016 and 
was for less than £500. Mr Ms credit file information didnt show any problems with his 
active debt so I dont think Vanquis had any reason to think he was experiencing financial 
difficulty at that time. 
Altogether, I dont think there was anything in the information Vanquis had about Mr Ms 
circumstances that should have prompted it to complete further checks before lending to 
him. And the amount of credit agreed wasnt so large relative to his means that it posed an 
obvious risk to him of not being able to meet his repayments without difficulty. So I think the 
checks Vanquis carried out on this occasion were reasonable and proportionate, and it didnt 
do anything wrong by lending to Mr M on the basis of the information it had. 
Mr M told us that he had health problems at the time which impacted on his decision-making. 
I am sorry to hear of Mr Ms health problems. I havent seen anything in the available 
information which suggests to me that Vanquis knew, or should have known, about these 
before agreeing to lend to him. I appreciate that this will be disappointing news for Mr M but, 
having considered everything carefully, I have concluded that Vanquis wasnt irresponsible 
when it opened this credit card facility for him. And so I am not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Vanquis Bank 
Limited and dont require it to take any action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman