DRN-3518786
The complaint
Miss W complains about the financial loss she says she suffered because of the delay in 
completing the transfer of her Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) benefits into a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP). She says the delay meant that Kellands (Gloucester) 
Limited (Kellands) had to apply for a new cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) which she 
says was around £16,000 lower than the original one.
In addition, Miss W says that after the transfer took place her funds remained in cash instead 
of being invested according to an agreed attitude to risk (ATR). She says she also had an 
existing personal pension plan which could be used as a drawdown plan and could have 
been used for the transfer if it wasnt going to be invested as agreed. 
What happened
Miss W had been a member of an OPS. In September 2017 she applied for a CETV so she 
could look into whether it would be in her best interests to transfer the benefits and use the 
tax free cash to repay her credit card and cover mortgage payments on an overseas 
property. She received a letter from the OPS confirming the CETV of £99,951 on 
15 November 2017. The letter confirmed the CETV expired three months later. 
In the first week of December 2017 Miss W says she contacted a number of advisers to see 
if they could help with a possible transfer. She chose Kellands to discuss her transfer options 
and following completion of an online fact find she met Kellands to discuss the transfer on 
20 December 2017. At the time Miss W also held another personal pension which was 
valued at £37,876. 
Kellands recommended that she transferred the OPS benefits and the benefits from the 
personal pension into a new SIPP after first withdrawing the available tax free lump sum of 
£24,998. The proceeds were to be invested into a balanced portfolio, but no regular income 
was to be withdrawn.
Kellands contacted the scheme trustees on 8 January 2018 for an immediate transfer 
quotation. 
The trustees said it provided this information on 11 January 2018, but Kellands said it didnt 
receive it. Kellands says it contacted the trustees on 16, 22, 29 and 31 January 2018 to 
chase up its request. During its conversation of 29 January Kellands was informed that 
another quotation had been sent out on 22 January 2018, but as Kellands couldnt locate the 
illustration it was resent and received by Kellands on 1 February 2018. 
The information was then provided to a third party who carried out an analysis and a 
recommendation report  dated 12 February 2018, was issued.  The report needed to be 
discussed with Miss W and unfortunately by the time the deadline was reached not all the 
required information was with Kellands to ensure the transfer could be completed. 
Miss W says she subsequently received a new CETV directly from the trustees for £86,298 
which expired on 27 June 2018. Miss W was surprised to receive the CETV as she says she 
was unaware it had been requested. But Miss W says, after a period of reflection, she 
decided that as she was committed to some expenditure  such as paying towards her 
daughters wedding which she wasnt able to avoid, she decided to go ahead and transfer 
using the lower CETV. The transfer deadline of 27 June 2018 wasnt met but, on this 
occasion, sufficient documentation was sent to the trustees for an extension to be granted. 
The transfer finally completed on 11 August 2018 and Miss W received the tax free lump 
sum she had requested with the residual money being invested into the SIPP. 
However, the funds werent invested in line with the original investment strategy Kellands 
had recommended and remained in cash. Miss Ws other personal pension also wasnt 
transferred into the SIPP as has been originally recommended by Kellands.  
  
Miss W decided to complain about the financial loss she thought shed suffered from the 
delay which caused a new lower CETV to be used in the transfer. She said Kellands stated it 
would send its analysis report to her a week before it finally arrived  which was just two 
days before the CETV expired. So, she thought it was responsible for the CETV deadline not 
being met and also for requesting a new CETV without her permission. She said there was a 
£300 cost for the new CETV, and it was around £15,500 lower in value  which she wasnt 
prepared to accept. She wanted Kellands to apply the original CETV that shed been given 
as the basis for the transfer.
   
Kellands didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. It concluded that, for reasons outside of its 
control, it wasnt in a position to progress the transfer for around two thirds of the total 
guaranteed period of the CETV  so it didnt think it was responsible for any delays which 
caused a new, lower CETV to be issued. And it said it wasnt responsible for the change in 
the way the OPS administrator calculated the new CETV  but in any case, Miss W had 
been made aware of the lower CETV yet had still decided to proceed with the transfer on 
that basis. 
Miss W wasnt happy with Kellands response as she believed it had made mistakes and 
caused delays which led directly to the deadline being breached. She said Kellands did have 
the information it needed to send to the OPS to get the process started before the expiry 
date of the CETV, and any information it didnt have  such as the signed discharge forms or 
authority from the new pension provider were its responsibility to have obtained well before 
that point. She also complained about the lack of investment of her funds after they were 
transferred and held in cash until she engaged a new adviser.  
In October 2019 Kellands was removed as Miss Ws adviser for her pension. 
Miss W brought her complaint to us where one of our investigators looked into the matter. 
She thought the complaint should be upheld  but only in respect of an award for distress 
and inconvenience caused by Kellands not managing Miss Ws expectations. The 
investigator made the following points to support her position:
Because of the delay in Miss W engaging Kellands  and the Christmas shut down 
which occurred during the process, Kellands had less than six weeks to complete the 
transfer.
However, it should have done more to manage Miss Ws expectations that the 
deadline might be missed.
She considered the possibility that Kellands caused a delay by asking for further 
information, but concluded that it was entitled to request any further information it 
thought was needed to provide suitable advice. 
Kellands couldnt be held responsible for the delay caused by the OPS in providing 
this further information.It seemed reasonable that Kellands produced its suitability report within seven 
working days of receiving the OPS information. By the time the issue regarding 
Miss Ws signature and other matters arose it would have been too late to meet the 
deadline anyway.
The delays were principally caused by Miss W and the OPS, so it wasnt fair to put 
the responsibility on Kellands and tell it to honour the original CETV.
There were a small number of service related issues that could be attributed to 
Kellands  particularly that Miss W wasnt made aware that the transfer hadnt gone 
ahead or that a new CETV had been requested. 
Kellands should pay Miss W £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused by 
these service issues.  
The investigator had considered that Miss Ws funds hadnt been invested after the 
transfer and remained in cash. But she said Kellands had shown that Miss W had 
benefitted from remaining in cash up to the point Kellands was no longer her adviser 
 so she thought Miss W hadnt suffered any financial loss.
Kellands didnt need to refund the fee it charged Miss W as it carried out the transfer 
as it was engaged to do. 
 
Miss W made the following comments in her response:
The Pensions Ombudsman had told her that the request for further information from 
the OPS was unnecessary as the transfer was from a defined benefit scheme, not a 
defined contribution one. It would seem that Kellands had all the information it 
needed to progress the transfer within the pack that was sent to it.
The email that Miss W received from Kellands on 6 February 2018 made it clear that 
it had all the information it needed and was going to email the transfer report at that 
time. This would suggest that everything was in place for the transfer to complete 
before the deadline  as long as the recommendation was to do so. 
The deadline was missed because Kellands had omitted to send some documents  
such as the transfer discharge form. It hadnt set up the SIPP account either so the 
funds couldnt have been transferred in any case. The second CETV deadline in 
June 2018 was also nearly breached because of Kellands not sending all the 
required information. 
It was unclear why Kellands would have requested a new valuation, without her 
knowledge, if it thought it had provided all the information to the OPS in time. The 
valuation request would have cost Kellands £300 which she thought was an expense 
it wouldnt have wanted to incur if it thought it hadnt gone past the deadline. 
She had to accept the lower CETV because she had committed to help her daughter 
with a wedding and pay for other purchases she had made. She wouldnt have made 
those commitments if she knew she wouldnt have received the CETV she expected. 
The money was left in cash after the transfer even though she had agreed with 
Kellands that it should be invested in low risk investments.
She terminated the arrangement with Kellands as she was told it couldnt deal with 
her while the complaint was ongoing. Unfortunately, as the pension is adviser driven 
she isnt able to invest the funds herself online. For these reasons she doesnt 
believe Kellands should retain its advice fee. 
Although she didnt appoint Kellands until 21 December for personal reasons she 
had sent all the relevant information to it for review by 7 December 2017. So she 
didnt agree that the delay on her part was between five and six weeks.
At no point did Kellands suggest the deadline which guaranteed the CETV might be 
missed. She was even assured the funds would be transferred after the deadline had 
expired. She only found out there had been a problem when she received a new 
CETV directly from the OPS.The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. She provided the following response:
Shed already acknowledged that Miss W did make contact with Kellands in early 
December 2017 but didnt think Kellands was obliged to start the process until 
officially instructed  which was further complicated by its close proximity to 
Christmas.
She agreed that Kellands didnt manage her expectations and may have suggested 
there was plenty of time for the transfer to complete. But she didnt think Kellands 
had provided any guarantee the transfer would complete in time and she didnt 
believe another adviser could have made that guarantee either.  
Miss W hadnt previously suggested she wouldnt have gone ahead with the transfer 
if shed known she might miss the deadline. The investigator asked for further 
information about the financial commitments and the reasons she went ahead with 
the second, lower CETV.
Our approach may be different than the Pensions Ombudsman, so it wasnt possible 
to comment on what it told Miss W. But in any case, she thought it was reasonable 
for Kellands to request any further information it thought it might need to give suitable 
advice. 
Miss K didnt agree and thought that the award of £350 didnt compensate her sufficiently for 
the distress and inconvenience shed suffered or the loss in the CETV. Furthermore, she 
said her new plan could only be accessed by Kellands, so in order to gain her own 
accessibility she would need to transfer into a different fund/provider  which would incur 
further costs. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for review.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Miss Ws complaint should be upheld, making the 
following points in support of my findings:
I set out a timeline of events that happened and concluded that mistakes may have 
been made by more than one party in this case  which could all have contributed to 
the delays which occurred. 
But ultimately its only became clear the deadline wouldnt be met the day before its 
expiry and I thought that Kellands may have held all the paperwork needed to 
progress the transfer at that time.
Around one week before the deadline Miss W was told by Kellands that it held most 
of the paperwork necessary to complete the transfer. Kellands also confirmed that it 
wasnt able to set up Miss Ws new SIPP online which meant her original signature 
was still required to set it up.
So I thought that Kellands could have used Miss Ws existing personal pension as an 
alternative to ensure the transfer could progress past the CETV expiry date. The plan 
had lower charges than the new SIPP, although it had a less diverse range of funds  
but I thought it could have been used as a vehicle to transfer the benefits. 
The benefits could have been transferred to the existing plan or details of the new 
SIPP could have been provided to the trustees when it was set up so that it could 
have been used instead of the other personal pension. 
I couldnt see any reason why Kellands could not have taken this course of action 
although I asked it to provide any evidence which might explain why it couldnt have 
done so.
Id also taken into account that Miss W didnt provide any further documentation or 
information to Kellands to enable the transfer to finally take place in August 2018 with 
the revised CETV. And Kellands was able to send all the information it held and obtain an extension to the revised CETVs expiry date  which would suggest that if it 
provided that information as well as details of Miss Ws existing personal pension in 
February 2018, the requirements to progress and ultimately complete the transfer 
would have been met.
When the transfer finally completed the funds remained in cash and werent invested 
before Miss W terminated her relationship with Kellands.  So I said Kellands should 
work out if Miss W had suffered a financial loss had her funds been invested when I 
said the transfer could have completed.
In addition, I said Kellands should work out the position Miss W would be in now had 
the transfer completed before the first expiry date, within a similar timescale to the 
actual transfer in August 2018. I said the loss should be calculated up to the point 
that Miss W changed to another adviser in October 2019. 
I also said that Kellands should pay compensation of £350 and £500 towards the 
cost of further investment advice Miss W would now need to take.
Responses to my provisional decision 
Miss W broadly accepted the provisional decision although she questioned whether she 
should have been invested into low risk funds within the agreed investment strategy instead 
of being left in cash.
But Kellands didnt accept my provisional decision and made the following points in 
response. It also provided further submissions in the form of the second set of discharge 
forms signed by Miss W, and an email trail in which Miss W expressed her desire to go 
ahead with the transfer when she was made aware that she could continue her complaint 
against the trustees at the same time. 
Miss W didnt appoint Kellands until 20 December 2018  which was six weeks after 
she received the CETV from the trustees. In addition, Kellands offices, including its 
outsourced paraplanning service, were closed for the next couple of weeks  which 
left just 33 working days to complete the transfer. 
The trustees have accepted that its response to Kellands request for information was 
outside of its service standards.
When it appeared the deadline might be missed Kellands applied to the trustees for 
an extension, confirming the documentation it already had, but it was refused. It says 
it had no control over that decision and was informed by the trustees that a new 
CETV needed to be requested.
It would appear that the trustees have now taken a different position on the matter of 
an extension, which is at odds with its position from February 2018. But in any case, 
it was the trustees that refused to grant an extension  not Kellands.
Kellands couldnt set up the new SIPP until Miss W had accepted its transfer 
recommendation. When this happened, it became clear that the SIPP provider 
needed an original signature and a copy of form A which was part of the trustees 
discharge form. 
This information couldnt be provided to the SIPP provider until several days after the 
deadline, so Kellands couldnt have received an extension from the trustees as this 
wasnt a minor omission which was what the trustees had said previously might 
constitute reasons for an extension.
The trustees wouldnt have accepted details of either the new SIPP or the existing 
plan unless part B of the discharge form was signed by the plan provider. And as 
Kellands advice wasnt accepted until 14 February 2018, it wasnt possible to obtain 
that signature and submit the application before the deadline. 
It wouldnt have been good practice to transfer the OPS benefits to Miss Ws existing 
personal pension and then into the SIPP. It suggested that Miss W could have used her personal pension fund to satisfy her 
requirement for tax free cash form the OPS  but she didnt want to do that.
It continued to set up the new SIPP in order to accommodate the transferred 
benefits, but Miss W said she didnt want to go ahead when she was aware of the 
significant fall in the CETV. However, after the Pensions Ombudsman (PO) said 
Miss W could continue with the process without prejudicing her complaint against the 
trustees she wanted to continue with the transfer. Kellands issued new discharge 
forms to Miss W which she then signed and retuned.
It would have submitted whatever forms would have been required to ensure the 
transfer could progress at the first time of asking. But it didnt think it could control the 
trustees actions in rejecting an extension or the actions of the new SIPP provider. It 
thought the trustees granted an extension the second time because it was aware 
Miss W had already made a complaint against them to the PO.
It carried out a calculation to quantify any financial loss caused by the transferred 
funds not being invested in line with its recommended strategy, from the date Id 
recommended until servicing rights changed to another adviser. The calculation 
showed that Miss W was financially worse off by £27.23. 
As it didnt think it had caused Miss W any financial loss it didnt think it should pay 
for her to take further investment advice  especially as it was her decision to transfer 
away. 
So I asked Kellands to provide further evidence to support its claim that it had requested an 
extension and evidence to show that the request had been declined. I also asked the 
scheme trustees for its comments on the matter. 
Kellands said it had referred to its application to the trustees for an extension within a 
number of documents it had already provided us with. It said the application for an extension 
was refused, although as it only became clear the original documentation wouldnt arrive in 
time just one day before the deadline expiry, its application was only verbal as there was no 
time for a written request. 
It said that neither the trustees nor Miss W had disputed that it applied for an extension. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. Kellands in 
particular has provided additional information and submissions, which Ive considered very 
carefully and have raised further questions with it for clarification. But I think Miss Ws 
complaint should be upheld  so Ill confirm my reasons. 
The various delays 
Ive carefully considered all the evidence that each party has provided here, and Ive looked 
at the various timelines involved. Its clear that each party involved has, to some extent, 
contributed to the overall delays that occurred. Firstly, Miss W was sent the original CETV 
which had a date of 15 November 2017. However, for various reasons she didnt make 
contact with the firm she wished to use, Kellands, until the week before 14 December 2017. 
Miss W has provided an email she received from Kellands dated 14 December 2017, which 
requested completion of a fact find. It also said that it had received Miss Ws information the 
week before and had looked over the details to make sure this was something we could do for you.all looks fine though, so now we need to get moving. 
So, while I dont accept Kellands view that Miss W hadnt approached it for five weeks after 
receiving the CETV, I cant ignore that a period of at least three weeks elapsed before 
Miss W asked Kellands to look into the possibility of transferring her OPS benefits.
Thereafter Kellands requested information from the OPS trustees which took around one 
month for it to receive. I know that the trustees have said that it provided the information 
sooner than that and that Kellands simply didnt receive it  but Ive taken into account that 
Kellands actively chased the information which I dont think it would have continued to do 
had it simply temporarily mislaid the information. But in any case, I think the request was 
unnecessary as the information had already been provided by the trustees within the 
immediate retirement transfer pack. The guaranteed nature of the information from a 
defined benefit OPS meant the trustees simply provided the same information again. 
So I think that was an unnecessary delay caused primarily by Kellands as the request was 
erroneous. Although the OPS trustees have also accepted that their overall response was 
outside of its own service standards. Finally, Kellands seemed to suggest to Miss W that it 
would email her its suitability report earlier than it eventually did. I think this demonstrates 
that all the parties involved had, to some extent, contributed to any overall delays in the 
transfer process. 
But by 14 February 2018, the day before the deadline, it seemed that Kellands no longer 
believed it was possible to meet the deadline and, having been refused an extension to the 
deadline verbally, it continued with the process of applying for a new CETV. 
So Ive looked at the position that Kellands and Miss W were in on 14 February 2018, having 
already taken into account that each party had already caused some kind of delay due to its 
(in) actions. In particular Ive looked at the documentation Kellands held at that time and the 
requirement the OPS trustees had, in terms of completed paperwork, to accept that an 
application to transfer had been made, and to potentially allow a period of grace in which to 
complete any outstanding requirements. 
On 6 February 2018 Miss W was contacted about the forthcoming suitability report and the 
outstanding paperwork. She was told that, the rest I think Ive got for the time being in terms 
of the discharge papers, so all good. 
Subsequently theres no evidence that Kellands asked Miss W for the form A discharge 
papers  which she confirmed she had previously completed. Indeed, Kellands has 
previously confirmed the paperwork which it held on 14 February 2018, and my 
understanding is that all the outstanding requirements related to the new SIPP  which 
included completion of part B of the discharge form. 
So Ive gone on to compare the paperwork the trustees would have required at this point for 
them to agree an extension to the CETV expiry date. 
And to do that Ive also looked at reasons behind the trustees apparent refusal to grant an 
extension to Kellands on 14 February 2018. 
In its letter to Kellands dated of 25 April 2019, in response to the written request for an 
extension, the OPS stated that your request for an extension to the original transfer 
valuation was not accepted as we had received no confirmation from the member that she 
intended to transfer. As previously stated, our transfer pack makes it clear that all paperwork 
must be completed and submitted within the three month guarantee period.  And I think this 
is consistent with what the scheme administrator has told us, and Kellands, throughout this process. 
The reason it declined an extension, and I dont dispute that Kellands did make a verbal 
application for an extension, is that it hadnt received any paperwork which indicated Miss W 
wanted to transfer  so it had no reason to offer a new deadline. What I said previously was 
that I think Kellands, having been in possession of most of the required documentation 
required to progress the transfer, ought to sent all of the paperwork it held to the trustees 
and then requested an extension. 
I think the trustees would have allowed that extension and I say that because when the 
transfer did subsequently complete the trustees gave an extension because it had, received 
the completed member discharge form (trustee form A). This gave a clear indication that the 
member wished to proceed. On that basis, we contacted Miss W to confirm the outstanding 
documents required to release payment (Trustee from B and certified ID). We gave Miss W 
a 10 day administrative allowance to provide the outstanding documents needed to secure 
the transfer value.   
This is also consistent with what the trustees told us when we asked what communication it 
had with Kellands around the time of the first CETV expiry deadline. It said that Kellands 
made a request for an extension in a letter dated 9 April 2018, but as it hadnt received any 
forms relating to the transfer it declined the request for an extension. Its unclear to me why 
the date of the letter was almost two months after the expiry date, but in any case, Ive 
already accepted that Kellands did make a verbal request on 14 February 2018  so thats 
not in dispute. 
But Im not satisfied that Kellands explained which documents it already held in relation to 
the transfer and could have sent to the trustees that day. I think that if it had explained the 
situation the trustees would have given an extension as it has told us, in answer to the 
question of what was the minimum documentation requirement it would need to have 
received to grant an extension, that in practice, provided form A (member discharge form) is 
received we do allow a short extension to allow any outstanding documents to be received.  
So, based on what I understand Kellands to have had in its possession at that time, I think 
that a full disclosure of this paperwork to the scheme  as well as sending the paperwork to 
the administrator ,would almost certainly have led to an extension being granted so that the 
rest of the (minor) issues could be resolved. 
The issue of the SIPP
Kellands has said that the day before the deadline expired it was in a position where it had 
tried to set up Miss Ws new SIPP online but was told by the provider that an original 
signature was required  so it realised at that point that it couldnt satisfy all the outstanding 
paperwork requirements. Kellands is correct in saying that the scheme administrators 
usually require Part B of the discharge form to be signed the provider, and to do that it 
would have needed to submit a transfer-in application form and given advice to do so. 
I also accepted that it wouldnt have been good practice to have set up the new SIPP 
wrapper until Miss W had accepted Kellands advice to transfer. 
So, I can understand why Kellands thought it couldnt continue the process at that point, 
especially as it was then refused an extension. But, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, I think Kellands had another alternative here which, along with the fact that I think it 
held sufficient documentation to have obtained an extension, would have enabled it to 
support that position. Miss W held another personal pension at the time with another 
provider and Ive been provided with evidence to show that Kellands would have been able to advise on the existing pension plan and that it would have been an acceptable alternative 
vehicle in which to invest the transfer of the OPS benefits. 
I havent considered the suitability of one plan against the other, but I note that the existing 
pension did have lower charges than the new proposed SIPP. But, in the circumstances of 
an impending deadline and Miss Ws desire to transfer the benefits and secure the CETV, I 
think it would have been reasonable to have used the existing plan for that purpose.  And 
given that the usual extension period is 10 days, Kellands would also have had the 
opportunity to set up the new SIPP it had previously recommended for Miss W and simply 
replaced the details on part B of the discharge form as and when the new provider had 
signed the form and opened the SIPP.
In my view, the documents needed to least start the OPS transfer process were either in 
Kellands possession or could be have been sent to the trustees in an acceptable form 
before the deadline. And by providing the details of the other personal pension that Miss W 
held, I think Kellands could have ensured the scheme accepted that Miss W wanted to 
transfer. It could then have provided a signed part B of the discharge form within the grace 
period that the OPS would have allowed.
The investment strategy following the transfer    
It isnt in dispute that, following the transfer of Miss Ws funds in August 2018, they werent 
invested in line with the recommended investment strategy and remained in cash. Kellands 
accepted this position and carried out a loss calculation which showed that the 
recommended investment portfolio had underperformed against cash during the time it 
remained as her adviser. So it said Miss W hadnt suffered a financial loss. Ive no reason to 
dispute the outcome of the calculation, but as Ive now decided that the transfer could have 
completed earlier than it did  and using the original CETV  then a new calculation needs to 
be undertaken to establish whether the non-implementation of the investment strategy did 
indeed cause a financial loss. 
Ive also considered Miss Ws point that shes been unable to change the investment 
strategy during this time because the plan is adviser led and she hasnt been able to move 
her funds out of cash. I know Kellands thinks it shouldnt have to pay for Miss W to take 
further investment advice as it was her decision to terminate their arrangement and be 
without an adviser. But I can understand why Miss W felt she needed to terminate the 
arrangement and all the evidence Ive been provided with about Kellands advice would 
suggest that the platform her funds are invested onto and the portfolio her funds are invested 
in, dont easily lend themselves to an individual investor making investment decisions.
So it seems reasonable to me that Miss W seeks alternative investment advice and that 
Kellands should contribute towards that arrangement. 
Putting things right
My aim is that Miss W should be put as closely as possible into the position she would
probably now be in if Kellands had applied to transfer her benefits in advance of the original
CETV expiry date. I think the transfer could have completed within a similar timescale to the
one that actually occurred in June to August 2018. That included a two week extension for outstanding requirements to be completed and a 
further four weeks for the transfer to be completed thereafter  so a period of six weeks in 
total.
What must Kellands do?
To compensate Miss W fairly, Kellands must:
Compare the actual value of Miss W's SIPP, up to the point (14 October 2019) she
transferred the servicing rights to another adviser, (but any loss at this point should be
brought up to date using a percentage of loss applied to the current value, as at the date of
any final decision along these lines, of the funds) with that of its value (fair value) had the 
transfer completed six weeks after the first deadline expiry date  but using the original 
CETV and invested according to Kellands original investment strategy. 
As Ive already said above Ive used a period of six weeks to include the two week extension 
given by the scheme trustees and an additional four weeks to complete the transfer which is 
the time it took the scheme trustees when the transfer finally completed in August 2018.
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable.
Kellands should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Kellands should pay into Miss W's pension plan to increase its value by the
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan
if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Kellands is unable to pay the compensation into Miss W's pension plan, it should pay that
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the
compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Miss W wont be able
to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Miss W's actual or expected marginal
rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
I assumed this to be basic rate in the provisional decision, and neither party has disputed 
this. So the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
deduction of 15%.
Additional interest at the rate of 8% simple per year should be added to any loss from the 
date of this final decision to settlement if the complaint isnt settled within 28 days of 
Kellands receiving notification of Miss Ws acceptance.
Pay Miss W £350 for the worry caused by the lower transferred amount, given the financial
commitments shed made.
Contribute the sum of £500 towards Miss Ws requirement for investment advice. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Kellands deducts income tax from theinterest, it should tell Miss W how much has been taken off. Kellands should give Miss W a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Miss W asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Miss Ws complaint against Kellands (Gloucester) 
Limited.
Kellands (Gloucester) Limited should pay the amount calculated as set out above and 
should provide details of its calculation to Miss W in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman