DRN-3036440
The complaint
Mr W complains about charges applied to his account by Advantage Finance Ltd.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr W was supplied with a motorbike and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage. The total amount payable under the agreement was £7191.92 
payable by 35 monthly instalments of £194.22 and a final payment of £394.22.
Mr W says he had issues from the start of the agreement when Advantage incorrectly set up 
his bank details. He says it also made an error when he changed his payment date, which 
resulted in him being charged late payment fees each month from November 2020.
Mr W complained to Advantage. In response, it said it acknowledged that it had set up the 
payment schedule incorrectly, but it said Mr W had a contractual responsibility to make 
payments on time and should have informed them if his payment hadnt been taken. 
Advantage said that in view of its error, it would credit all late payment charges applied to the 
account since November 2020. Mr Ws account was subsequently credit with £60.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. He wants 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Advantage had made an error 
when Mr W changed his bank details but that at the same time it had tried to contact Mr W to 
notify him that his account was overdue. The investigator said that Advantage had acted 
reasonably by refunding the charges which had been applied to Mr Ws account and said 
she didnt think it was necessary for it to do anything further.
Mr W didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr W contacted Advantage in October 2020 to change the details of the card 
that his payments were taken from. However, Advantage processed this incorrectly and the 
payments werent activated.
I can see that Advantage attempted to contact Mr W to let him know that his account had 
fallen into arrears. Mr W responded by sending an email to Advantage on 16 November 
2020 advising that he had changed his details when he was issued a with a new card, and 
that there were funds in the account, so he didnt understand why payments hadnt been 
taken.
Following this, Mr W contacted Advantage again to arrange a new payment schedule for 
payments of £250 to be taken on 28th of each month. Monthly payments were made going 
forwards, however, because of the previous issues with the payment not having been taken, 
Mr Ws account was in arrears and a £12 charge was applied each month.
Based on the information Ive seen, I think Advantage made an error when it failed to tell Mr 
W that his account was in arrears when he called them to arrange the new payment 
schedule. Advantage has acknowledged that it should have brought this to Mr Ws attention 
and has since refunded all the arrears charges which were applied to the account.
Although Advantage couldve provided better customer service here, I also think Mr W must 
accept some responsibility for what happened. The terms and conditions of the agreement 
say that monthly payments must be made on time and that if they arent, fees and charges 
can be added to the account. So, although the issue was initially caused by Advantage, I 
think that Mr W ought reasonably to have been aware that his payment hadnt been taken 
because of the communications sent to him by Advantage regarding the arrears. On 
balance, I think it would be reasonable for Mr W to have responded to these 
communications. Had he done so, I think the account would be been brought up to date 
sooner.
Taking everything into account, I think Advantage acted reasonably in acknowledging its 
error and refunding the arrears charges. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr Ws 
credit file was negatively impacted and Advantage has said that arrears charges arent 
reported to credit reference agencies. Therefore, I wont be asking Advantage to do anything 
further.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman