DRN-2122274
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1996. The policy was taken out in 
one of the societys branches when Mr S was applying for a mortgage. The policy provided 
Mr S with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case. 
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr S suggests he wasnt given a choice about taking out the PPI as it was presented as part 
of the mortgage he was applying for. Neither he nor Nationwide have the actual paperwork 
from the time. Thats unfortunate but understandable given this mortgage was repaid nearly 
20 years ago, and I wouldnt expect either party to keep documents indefinitely. I cant be 
sure what was discussed between him and the society, but Nationwide has sent us a sample 
of the sort of mortgage application used in 1996. I cant see any reason why it would have 
used another sort of form, so I think it reasonable to say Mr S would have been completing 
something very similar if not identical.
The mortgage application form had a separate section headed Accident Sickness and 
Unemployment Insurance which explained a little about PPI and asked Mr S to sign to say 
whether he wanted the PPI. There was a no option also. Further down the form there were 
choices for Mr S to make to say what sort of cover he wanted and for how much. I think Mr S 
must have completed this section for the PPI to be set up  and indeed he says he recalls 
this. 
I cant see anything that implies that the PPI is compulsory, so I dont think Mr S could have 
thought he had to have the PPI in order to get the mortgage. 
Overall, despite what Mr S remembers, I think the society made him aware that PPI was 
optional and he chose to take it out.
The society says it didnt recommend the insurance to Mr S  so it didnt have to check it 
was suitable for him. But, given this was sold during a meeting, its possible Mr S thought it 
was recommended. Ive looked at the policy, and even if it had been recommended it doesnt 
look like it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
I say this because:
- Mr S was eligible for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.  
- Mr S had some work-related benefits if he couldnt work due to a sickness or accident. 
But the policy would have paid out in addition to the occupational benefits and would do 
so, it seems, for longer. Having the policy in place would mean Mr S could use his work-
related benefits and savings to pay for other expenses. This would probably have been 
even more important when the policy was sold given that Mr S was solely responsible for 
repaying the mortgage. I think Mr S would have had some use for the policy despite his 
existing arrangements. 
- Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as 
those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. 
As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it unlikely Mr S 
needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
- I dont know exactly when Mr S was told what the policy would cost each month and the 
monthly benefit that would be paid if a successful claim was made. But its likely this was 
in the meeting given the questions on the form about the amount of cover he wanted. 
I think Mr S would most likely have been aware how much he would be paying for the 
policy and Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable or that the benefit was 
insufficient to meet his monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible the information the society gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already said Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have been affordable, I think it unlikely Mr S would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided  overall, I think he would still have 
taken out the policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman