DRN-4441937
The complaint
Miss I has complained about her car insurer West Bay Insurance Plc regarding repair of her 
car following an accident.
What happened
Miss I had an accident in March 2021 whilst driving on the motorway. She was hit by another 
driver who did not stop. West Bay agreed to repair Miss Is car but she told its repairer she 
wanted to use a garage of her choice. She later told West Bay she wanted to use a 
manufacturer approved repairer near her home. West Bay said its nearest manufacturer 
approved repairer was over an hour/45 miles away  but it thought it would be best for Miss I 
if she did use its garage.
Contact between the parties rumbled on during 2021. In 2022 Miss I sent an updated 
estimate to West Bay. It felt it would likely offer her cash to settle the claim in lieu of it doing 
any repairs. In May 2021, in a final response, it said it was waiting for her to tell it whether 
she would use its approved repairer or accept a cash in lieu settlement for the repairs.
Miss I was unhappy  she felt her claim had been going on for over a year with no progress. 
She said shed had to replace tyres which were part of the claim. Miss I complained to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. She said she wanted West Bay to agree for her car to be 
repaired at a garage of her choice and for a courtesy car to be provided. Miss I said she felt 
that all costs other than her policy excess should be covered by West Bay.
Our Investigator felt West Bay had likely caused some delay during 2021. But he felt that 
hadnt changed the outcome or course of the claim. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss I was unhappy. Her complaint was referred for an Ombudsmans decision.
I reviewed the complaint. I asked our Investigator to obtain some clarification from West Bay 
as Id noted its file seemed to suggest there might be repair work in the estimates submitted 
by Miss I that it didnt feel was claim related. I also wanted to understand what offer in cash 
had been made to Miss I in 2022, and why an offer hadnt been made before in 2021  given 
Miss I had wanted to use her own garage.
West Bay said no monetary sum had been put to Miss I for settlement. It said the main 
difference was that Miss Is garages had quoted to replace all four tyres and one wheel. 
Whereas it felt the wheel and three tyres didnt need replacing. It also felt work to repair a 
side panel and sill were overstated and that replacement would be more cost effective. It 
said that, using an updated hourly labour rate, it would cost it £5,431.96 (net of VAT) to 
complete the repairs and it would offer this to Miss I in settlement. 
It said it hadnt offered a cash settlement to Miss I in 2021 as it understood she was happy to 
use its manufacturer approved repairer (which it still believes is her best option). But when it 
tried to progress things with her, she didnt reply.
I considered the complaint in light of West Bays further comments. I felt it had handled the 
claim poorly  that it should have made a cash offer to Miss I in 2021. My provisional 
findings were:
The accident occurred in March 2021. As early as April 2021 West Bay was told Miss I 
wanted to use her own garage. It received estimates from her two chosen garages (in line 
with what the policy requires) in early May 2021. But as of May 2022, the claim was still 
unresolved, with West Bay still not having clearly told Miss I what it would pay her for repairs 
to be done at her garage. 
I cant see why West Bay didnt tell Miss I on 11 May 2021 exactly what work and costs it 
had issues with within her estimates. It had her costs, its own costs and its own assessment 
of what work was needed. It could have given Miss I a very clear choice at that time  
well pay you £X for the repairs  which is our cost for agreed work less your policy 
excess, 
or;
well do the agreed repairs, at our garage, and youll just have to pay the policy excess. 
That would have left Miss I with a very clear choice to make. As it was she did her best to try 
and understand the position she was in by, for example, asking West Bay for its repair 
estimates. And, at one stage, she did agree to consider using another of West Bays 
garages. But I think she thought that garage could or had already presented an estimate to 
West Bay (which she wanted to see)  when really they needed to see the car. I dont think 
that confusion was helped when, during one web-chat with West Bay, Miss I was told there 
was an estimate available from this garage. 
I also think though, involvement of this garage was never going to be entirely acceptable to 
Miss I because of its distance from her home. But again, had West Bay clarified her options, 
she could have decided which was better for her  travelling to use that garage or covering 
the difference in costs between West Bays cash offer and what her chosen garage would 
charge for repairs. 
Ive read all of the emails and contacts between the parties, and Ive considered West Bays 
view that it did all it could, that it was waiting for Miss I to decide and/or get back to it. I dont 
think that is a reasonable assessment of what went on. In my view West Bay had all the 
information it needed on 11 May 2021, when it wrote to Miss I, to put a reasonable claim 
settlement offer to her, but it did not do so. 
Further, because it did not do so, that allowed the claim to drift for months whilst Miss I tried 
to make an impossible decision. The decision was only impossible because West Bay hadnt 
given her all of the pieces of the puzzle needed for an informed decision to be made. West 
Bay may have felt it knew what the right thing for her was  but it shouldnt have been trying 
to make that decision for her. Rather it should have been giving her detail so she could 
decide what the best option was for her.
West Bay has now offered to pay Miss I £5,431.96 for repair of her car, less the policy 
excess of £550. That does not include VAT. If Miss I accepts this offer, gets her car repaired 
and presents VAT invoices to West Bay, it should reimburse her VAT cost up to £1,086.39 
(the amount due against this repair sum). If Miss I accepts this sum and uses her own 
garage for repair, West Bay wouldnt be liable for provision of a courtesy car and itd have no 
liability for the quality or timely completion of repairs. I do think this offer couldve been made 
before, in May 2021, so Ill award it with interest, as an option for Miss I to accept. I think 
awarding interest is fair here because Miss I should have had the benefit of that money at 
that time. If Miss I would rather have West Bays garage complete the work, she should contact it to 
arrange that. If West Bays garage completes repairs, the policy does entitle Miss I to a 
courtesy car. I understand shed need current insurance to be able to use a courtesy car  
but I cant see anything that, for a courtesy car to be provided to Miss I, requires her to have 
current insurance with West Bay. Of course a courtesy car is often subject to availability and 
will not necessarily be the same model as Miss Is car.        
Because West Bay hasnt been clear with Miss I about the concerns it has had about the 
extent of repairs, she hasnt had a chance to fully consider its points in these respects. I note 
she was aware of the argument about tyres though. On that note I think West Bay 
reasonably declined liability for all but three tyres. Its repairer in April 2021 noted all tyres 
had 4mm of tread left. Miss I continued to use the car. It was around eight months later, and 
4,000 miles, when Miss I, during her annual MOT, was told two were dangerous (bald) and 
the other two would soon need replacing (as they were nearing the legal tread depth limit). 
By that time the tyres were noted as significantly worn. I cant reasonably attribute this to the 
accident when they werent so worn then. 
The wheel in dispute was the left front one. The accident didnt seem to involve this wheel 
being hit. I think West Bay was entitled to rely on its garages assessment of damage which 
did not include replacement of this wheel.
The other two main issues of concern for West Bay were repair of the sil and side panel. Its 
garage allowed significantly less time for repair than Miss Is. Miss Is felt it would take twelve 
hours to repair the side panel, for example. In its current costing, West Bay has swapped 
that repair, and that for the sill, for replacement as it would take significantly less time. I think 
that indicates that West Bay accepts that the minimal amount of time initially allowed by its 
garage for repair, of three hours, might not have been realistic for an effective repair. I think 
swapping the work seems like a pragmatic, reasonable response from West Bay. 
As Ive said, West Bays offer of £5,431.96, is based on these adjustments and its updated 
hourly rate. Its quite normal for the cost to an insurer for repair to be less than that charged 
privately to a car owner by a garage. Miss Is policy allows for West Bay settling at its cost, 
and it is still prepared to complete the insured work itself. So Im satisfied it looking to base 
the optional cash settlement on its own rates is fair. If Miss I wishes to dispute the extent of 
West Bays offer, Ill consider any additional evidence she has in respect of repairs. 
As I said above, I think West Bays lack of clarity on this claim is what has caused it to be 
ongoing for a year to the date of the final response letter in May 2022. Miss I was worried in 
the meantime about renewal  but this fault claim was always going to affect her renewal 
price. But I do think that Miss I would have made a definite choice in May 2021 if a clear 
option from West Bay had been given to her. All the chasing she did from June 2021 
onwards, trying to make sense of what her options were, and what the impact of each might 
be on her, was all avoidable. For around a year of delay, confusion, frustration and 
continued unnecessary contact, I think £500 compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
Miss I said she generally agreed with my decision. But she said if shed known about the 
view of replacing some parts rather than repairing, she could have got prices for that and 
been better able to make an informed decision. Her tyres were damaged by the accident, 
and West Bays repairer did recommend one wheel was replaced (the left rear). Shed like 
the current cash offer of settlement to reflect current prices, where increases to the cost of 
parts and labour have out-paced even an interest award of 8%. She said its been extremely 
stressful dealing with this matter and driving around in her undamaged car unable to sell it. West Bay said it was prepared to accept the compensation award but maintained that it had 
acted reasonably in 2021 in not making a cash offer because Miss I had indicated she might 
use its repairer. It said it didnt think an application of interest was fair because Miss I hadnt 
paid for repairs, the offer had been calculated at current rates and compensation would 
cover for the inconvenience. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge this has been a difficult time for Mrs I. I know West Bay thinks it acted 
reasonably in 2021. But I think its missing the point that it is the expert in the claims 
process. I emphasize that, in my view, West Bay did not treat Miss I fairly in 2021 because it 
did not give her enough information to make an informed decision about how to progress the 
claim. 
The wheel in dispute, as I said provisionally, was the left front one. And West Bay did agree 
one tyre was damaged by the accident. I dont doubt Miss I believes all four were damaged, 
Im certainly not suggesting (and nor is West Bay) that she was knowingly seeking to claim 
for repairs that were not related to the accident. But the evidence from the initial assessment 
undertaken shortly after the accident was that the tyres had good tread depths and only one 
(the left rear) was damaged by the accident. Theres no evidence to show the others were 
damaged and when both rear tyres needed replacing at the point of MOT, and the front two 
only just passed, it was reportedly due to their overall tread depth. 
I note West Bay is agreeing to pay compensation. That is awarded to make up for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss I by its failure. And I do think the sum Ive 
awarded is fair and reasonable in that respect.
My interest award is made because Miss I did not have the benefit of the settlement at the 
point she should have had it. I appreciate that Miss I feels her cost to repair will have 
increased beyond the sum accounted for by my interest payment. But there will always be a 
shortfall for her between the cost to West Bay to repair and what she will have to pay 
privately. And as West Bay has said, it has recalculated the cost of repair. Of course whether 
or not interest becomes applicable will depend upon which settlement option Miss I chooses. 
West Bay wont have to pay anything in settlement of the claim to Miss I if she chooses to 
use its garage for repair.
Having considered the parties replies, my provisional view on the complaint has not 
changed. My provisional findings, along with my comments here, are now the findings of 
this, my final decision.
 
Putting things right
I require West Bay to:
Settle Miss Is claim, at her choice, by either;
paying her £4,881.96 (£5,431.96 less the policy excess of £550), plus interest* from 
11 May 2021 until settlement is made; and
upon provision of VAT invoices from Miss I, reimbursing her VAT spent up to 
£1,086.39 being the VAT due on the repair sum of £5,431.98.
or;
arranging to repair Miss Is car at one of its garages, with Miss I to pay it the policy 
excess of £550; andsubject to availability, and Miss I showing a valid certificate of insurance, arranging a 
courtesy car for the period of repair.
Pay Miss I £500 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require West Bay to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Miss I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Insurance Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman