DRN-3933125
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the way QIC Europe Ltd handled a claim they made for 
water damage under their home insurance policy.
Reference to QIC includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Whilst having a new kitchen installed, Mr and Mrs M discovered water damage 
caused by a leaking pipe. They got in touch with QIC to make a claim.
QIC initially accepted the claim and began the drying process. It said it didnt have 
any contractors available to carry out repairs and invited Mr and Mrs M to provide 
quotes for the work. They did so and QIC made an offer to settle the claim.
Mr and Mrs M didnt think the offer was reasonable as it was substantially less than 
the quotes they had provided. QIC then withdrew its offer and declined the claim 
because it said the damage had happened gradually.
Mr and Mrs M said there had been no visible damage until the kitchen units were 
removed. So they didnt think it was fair to decline the claim. They also questioned 
whether it was fair for QIC to have charged two excesses, as they thought all the 
damage had been caused by one single leak in the kitchen.
Our investigator didnt think QIC had acted fairly. She agreed the water damage 
caused by the leak had been gradual. But, in line with the long-established approach 
of this Service, she didnt think it would be fair for QIC to decline the claim for gradual 
damage as Mr and Mrs M couldnt reasonably have been aware of it until the kitchen 
units were removed. She also thought Mr and Mrs Ms expectations had been 
mismanaged by QIC offering to settle the claim and then retracting that offer.
To put things right, our investigator recommended QIC accept the claim, pay interest 
on the settlement, and pay £200 compensation.
Mr and Mrs M accepted this recommendation. QIC didnt. In summary, it thought the 
evidence did show visible damage. And it said that because the kitchen units were 
removed prior to QIC inspecting the damage, it had been unable to assess the extent 
of damage they may have suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by escape of water but not when caused by a gradual 
leak or gradual deterioration. QIC has accepted the damage was caused by escape of 
water. Its declined the claim because it says the damage happened gradually.
As our investigator has outlined, the longstanding approach of this Service when an insurer 
relies on a gradual damage policy term is first to consider whether the damage was indeed 
gradual. And if so, to take a second step and consider whether the policyholder was, or 
ought reasonably to have been, aware of the ongoing damage prior to making the claim. 
Only if we consider they were do we usually agree its fair for the claim to be declined.
Here I think its agreed by all parties that the leak was gradual. Mr and Mrs Ms contractor, 
who Ill call W, said it seemed to have been running for a considerable period of time. W 
discovered the leak whilst removing the old kitchen, so Im satisfied his opinion is relevant 
and reliable. QIC also thought the damage was gradual.
So the key question for me is whether Mr and Mrs M were or ought to have been aware of 
the ongoing damage prior to getting in touch with QIC.
QIC says its position has been prejudiced because the kitchen units were removed before it 
could inspect them. Given the damage was discovered part way through removing the old 
kitchen and installing a new one, I dont find that unusual or unreasonable. W has been 
forthcoming and detailed when asked by our investigator to provide his professional opinion 
about what he found whilst carrying out the work. I note QIC took Ws details when looking 
into the claim, but I havent seen any evidence to suggest it contacted him to find out more 
or question his comments. Had it done so, it may have discovered he had photos of the 
kitchen to share. And it would likely have found out the same detailed information our 
investigator discovered when she was in touch with W. Because of this, Im not satisfied 
QICs position was prejudiced such that it couldnt reasonably consider the claim.
Ive thought about the comments made by QIC and W about the damage, as well as the 
photos provided. Having done so, Im not satisfied the evidence shows Mr and Mrs M were, 
or ought reasonably to have been, aware of the ongoing damage. Ill explain why.
QIC says its photos show tiles debonding due to moisture exposure. It also notes W 
identified a crumbling wall. Ive looked at the report provided by QIC. The photos arent 
annotated, so its unclear which ones QIC think show debonding. And I cant see any of the 
comments in the report refer to debonding tiles. Nevertheless, Ive carefully considered all 
the photos of tiles, but Im not persuaded theres clear signs of water damage to them.
W said the leak had been hidden by several factors, noting the leaking pipe was situated 
behind kitchen units. He explained that many of the surface finishes in the kitchen were hard 
tiles, so the water moved behind the finishes and was hidden until they were removed. And 
where there werent hard tiled finishes, such as under the bath, water damage was plain to 
see. However, it was concealed by the bath panel. I find these comments persuasive and 
consistent with the conditions shown in QICs photos.
When our investigator asked for more information about the units, W said they werent wet to 
the touch. W also explained that whilst a wall was indeed crumbling, this only became 
obvious after all the shelving and household contents had been removed. So again, the 
damage was concealed from view.
Overall, Im not satisfied the evidence shows Mr and Mrs M were or ought to have been 
reasonably aware of water damage  until the kitchen units were removed. Once the 
problem was found, they got in touch with QIC promptly. It follows based on this Services 
approach that Im not satisfied it was fair for QIC to decline the claim for gradual damage.To put that right, QIC should now settle the claim, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. As Mr and Mrs M have had the work carried out, the claim will have 
to be settled by cash payment. That should have happened long ago, so QIC should also 
add interest to the settlement, from the date Mr and Mrs M paid for the work to the date of 
settlement, as theyve unfairly been without the money for a period of time.
The remaining terms and conditions include the policy excess. I understand QIC intends to 
deduct two excesses. W has been clear that the damage has been caused by two leaks, 
although it seems most of the damage was caused by one leak. In principle, that means the 
cost of putting right any damage caused by the first leak should be paid and an excess 
deducted from that amount. And any damage caused by the second leak should be paid and 
an excess deducted from that amount. It will be for QIC and Mr and Mrs M to take the next 
steps to agree on the amounts to settle each claim for.
Both parties have agreed to the investigators suggestion of £200 compensation, so I dont 
think thats in dispute. But for the avoidance of doubt, I agree this is a reasonable amount for 
the distress and inconvenience avoidably caused by QIC offering to accept the claim and 
then later retracting that offer and declining the claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Settle the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Add interest to the settlement, at 8% simple per year, from the date Mr and Mrs M 
paid for the work to the date of settlement*.
Pay £200 compensation.
If QIC considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs M 
a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman