DRN-3440884
The complaint
Mrs I complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc, trading as Post Office Financial Services (the 
Post Office) registered a default against her for loan arrears when they shouldnt have, which 
caused her distress.   
What happened
Mrs I took out a loan with the Post Office in 2018. 
In 2019 she lost her job and by November 2019 she could no longer meet the full 
repayments, and so she agreed a repayment plan of £10 per month with them. 
There were no issues until December 2020 when Mrs I realised that the direct debit hadnt 
been taken. She contacted the Post Office to find out why it hadnt been taken and was told 
it was an error and they would reset the direct debit. She made a manual payment for 
December.  
This happened again in January and Mrs I contacted the Post Office again and was told the 
direct debit hadnt been reset properly. 
 
In March Mrs I received a letter to say a default notice had been registered against her in 
December 2020 as she hadnt made any payments for 12 months.  Mrs I contacted the Post 
Office who said that manual payments would be needed as the account was in default. Mrs I 
hadnt been told her account would go into default so she says she was surprised. 
Mrs I complained. The Post Office accepted their error and agreed to remove the default and 
offered £200 compensation. 
In August 2021 Mrs I noticed the default was still on her credit file. She made a second 
complaint and the Post Office removed the default and paid a further £150 compensation. 
However, Mrs I was still unhappy with this outcome as she said her credit score had been 
negatively impacted as the default had been replaced with a marker for six months arrears, 
and so she brought her complaint to us. 
 
Our investigator agreed that the Post Office hadnt provided the level of service that was to 
be expected, but he thought that the level of compensation that Mrs I had received was fair. 
Mrs I didnt agree with this and wanted the debt written off, and so she has asked for an 
Ombudsmans decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs I has told us that she has been affected by this emotionally. She experienced some very 
difficult personal circumstances in early 2019 which  impacted her ability to pay the loan and 
was the reason she entered into a repayment plan with the Post Office in November 2019. 
She had taken part time work and was on a much-reduced income. 
I can see that when Mrs I contacted the Post Office about reducing her payments, they have 
treated her empathetically, and have agreed to a very significant reduction in the repayments 
to £10. This is how we would have expected them to treat a customer in Mrs Is position and 
I am pleased that an arrangement was reached to receive reduced payments for the loan.
Once the repayment plan was in place, we wouldnt expect a default to be registered as long 
as payments were met, and so I can understand Mrs Is distress at receiving the letter in 
March  especially as she had made contact with them twice about the failure of the direct 
debit. 
However, while I can appreciate how distressing this will have been, I can see that the Post 
Office recognised their error straight away, apologised, agreed to put it right and offered 
some redress  which was the right thing to do, and the £200 compensation offered was in 
the range that I would expect for this sort of error. 
I am not aware of any further issues then until August when Mrs I found out that the default 
hadnt been removed when checking her credit record  and saw that her credit score had 
been affected. She was under further pressure at the time caring for her mother, and so this 
came as a shock. Whilst I agree that this should never have happened, I can see that when 
Mrs I contacted the Post Office, the default was removed straight away, and Mrs I was 
offered a further £150 compensation.   I think that this is a fair figure for the additional 
distress and inconvenience caused, especially given that the Post Office corrected it straight 
away. 
Mrs I is unhappy that the default has been replaced with a record of six months of arrears on 
her account. However, this is what I would expect to see in this situation. When a customer 
isnt able to meet their minimum contractual payments on a loan or credit agreement, and 
enters into a repayment plan, the lender can record the underpayment as arrears, and they 
have a duty to report this accurately to the credit reference agencies. So, I dont think the 
Post Office have done anything wrong here, although I appreciate this isnt what Mrs I was 
expecting. 
 
In asking for an ombudsmans decision, Mrs I has said that she doesnt think the award 
made compensates for the damage to her credit file, and that she is no longer able to pay off 
this loan. 
However, for the reasons explained above, I think the compensation of £350 is a fair overall 
award for the distress and inconvenience , and although there may be an impact of the credit 
score from the arrears recorded, this is accurate recording and so I wouldnt ask the Post 
Office to change this. I understand that Mrs Is financial circumstances have significantly 
changed from when she took out the loan, and she is now no longer in a position to meet the 
repayments, but this is something that she will need to discuss with the Post Office directly 
and they have asked for Mrs I to complete a new income and expenditure review for them to 
consider this. 
My final decision
My decision is that I am not upholding Mrs Is complaint and Bank of Ireland Plc trading as 
Post Office Financial Services do not need to do anything further.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman