DRN-3137780
The complaint
Ms O complained that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
unfairly refused to pay her claim for vet costs under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Ms O took out a pet insurance policy thats underwritten by Red Sands. In 
June 2021 she made a claim for the cost of dental treatment her dog had received. Red 
Sands declined the claim because it said there was no evidence her dog had a dental check 
within the last 12 months before the current issues occurred, and that was a requirement of 
her policy. It also said the treatment her dog received appeared to have been a routine scale 
and polish, which was specifically excluded under her policy. 
Ms O complained and subsequently brought her complaint to this service. She said the vet 
had recommended the scale and polish due to the yellow discolouration of her dogs teeth. 
And had said her dog could get heart problems if the teeth werent cleaned. Ms O also 
questioned some of the information in the vets notes Red Sands had relied on. In particular, 
when her dog had fallen down the stairs and damaged her teeth, and whether the vets had 
extracted a tooth in June 2021. 
Our investigator thought Red Sands had assessed Ms Os claim fairly and reasonably and in 
line with the terms of her policy. He didnt think it needed to take any action. As Ms O didnt 
agree with the investigators view, her complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
My decision will focus on Ms Os claim for treatment her dog received in June 2021. I wont 
comment on other issues shes raised, including the way Red Sands handled a later claim 
she made and the way her policy was sold to her. Ms O also raised some concerns about 
the vets who treated her dog but, as our investigator said, thats not an organisation that falls 
within the jurisdiction of this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will be disappointing to Ms O but, having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator and for largely the same reasons. Let me explain why. 
I should say at the outset that where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory 
(as some of it is in this complaint), I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. In 
other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence 
and wider circumstances.
Ms Os pet insurance policy with Red Sands sets out what treatment costs itll refund. It says 
itll pay up to £1,000 for dental treatment as long as a dental examination was carried out by 
a vet within the last 12 months that confirms there were no previous dental injuries, illnesses 
or observable changes to Ms Os pets teeth from her normal state. 
Ms Os policy also sets out whats not covered. It says Red Sands wont pay for routine 
crowns, polishing or scale removal. And under pre-existing conditions it says it wont cover 
any claims or costs for existing conditions, which it says is any injury or illness that relates to 
or results from an accident, illness or injury where Ms Os dog showed observable changes 
to her normal healthy state  that could be observed before or within 14 days of her policys 
original date.
So, in light of the terms of Ms Os policy, I think it would be fair for Red Sands to decline any 
claim for routine scale and polishing of her dogs teeth. And for any other dental work without 
evidence it wasnt an existing issue, i.e. a condition that relates to an accident, injury or 
illness where changes were noticed before or within 14 days of her policys start date.
Ms O says the vet told her that her dog could suffer from heart problems if her teeth werent 
cleaned. She says her dog hasnt had heart problems before, and she isnt aware of any 
other pre-existing conditions. She said her dog had fallen down the stairs the day before the 
appointment and thats why the vet wanted to check her teeth.
Red Sands has relied on the vets clinical notes. They show that the vet examined Ms Os 
dog two days before the dental treatment. They note that Ms O was planning to travel 
abroad in four weeks time and advice was provided about vaccinations and other travel 
requirements. The notes say that no concerns were raised by the owner. The vet did an 
examination, including an oral examination, which noted fell when younger and damaged 
teeth. Yellow discolouration of all teeth, recommend S+P and x-rays. 
Dental treatment was scheduled for two days later and the notes for that day say, 
Performed scale and polish checked all the teeth, no pocketing seen. And under Radiology 
it says NAD all the rooths (sic) look ok. No need of extraction just scal (sic) and polish.
The notes would indicate the dental treatment was recommended for two purposes  to 
clean the dogs teeth in light of the yellow discolouration - and to x-ray them to assess for 
root damage. As Ive said, theres a specific exclusion in Ms Os policy for routine scale and 
polishing of her dogs teeth and so I think it was fair and reasonable for Red Sands to 
decline the claim for that treatment.
As for the x-rays, Ive taken account of what Ms O has said about when her dogs teeth were 
damaged. But, in light of the notes from the vet which say the teeth were damaged when it 
fell when younger, I think it was fair and reasonable for Red Sands to conclude that it 
happened some time beforehand. Ms O hasnt provided any evidence of a dental check 
within 12 months of the examination in June 2021. And, without that, I think it was fair for 
Red Sands to conclude that any damage to her dogs teeth was likely to have happened 
before the start of her policy, or within the first 14 days, and was therefore not covered under 
the terms of her policy. 
The invoice the vets sent to Ms O sets out the treatment theyre charging for and includes an 
entry that says Dental: Extract Molar. This contradicts the clinical notes that say there was 
no need for an extraction. Ms O also told us she wasnt aware that any teeth had been 
extracted. So, I think its fair to assume this is a mistake and there was no extraction. But 
even if a tooth was extracted, I think it would be caught by the same exclusion above as it 
relates to, or results from, an accident that was observed before or within 14 days of her 
policys start date.
In light of the above, and on the basis of the evidence Ive seen, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Red Sands to decline Ms Os claim. Im sorry to hear about the problems shes faced but I dont think Red Sands needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint .
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman