DRN-3284629
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund to him the payment that he 
made for some repairs to his car. 
What happened
Mr H was charged £1,300 by a garage for some repairs to his car in May 2021. He used his 
Nationwide debit card to pay for £800 of that amount and he paid the other £500 using a 
credit card from another provider. He says that the repairs hadnt fixed the problem so the 
garage did further work on the car but couldnt fix it. He says that the garage refused to 
refund the payment that hed made to it. 
Mr H says that a motoring organisation then diagnosed the problem with the car and it was 
repaired by a manufacturers dealer. Mr H contacted Nationwide and his credit card provider 
about a refund of the payments that hed made to the garage. Nationwide made a 
chargeback claim to the garage but it said that Mr H had received the services that he paid 
for and that it was unable to dispute the payment any further. Mr H wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
chargeback scheme was voluntary and Nationwide had put Mr Hs claim forward in the 
correct way but the garage defended it so Nationwide was unable to do anything further. She 
said that the chargeback had been declined under the card scheme rules but Nationwide 
had dealt with Mr Hs claim correctly.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that he must 
have his money back because he paid for a service but didnt receive it as he paid the 
garage to fix his car but it wasnt fixed. He says that hes allowed to have his money back 
under the chargeback rules and section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
this complaint is about the £800 that Mr H paid to the garage using his Nationwide 
debit card  his complaint about the £500 that he paid using a credit card from 
another provider is being dealt with separately;
section 75 only applies to payments made using a credit card  Mr H paid the £800 
using his debit card so hes unable to make a claim for a refund under section 75 but 
Ive considered whether Nationwide has dealt with a chargeback claim for that 
amount correctly;
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the merchant under the relevant card scheme to try to settle the 
dispute;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made, but if the 
right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made; 
Nationwide made a chargeback claim for the £800 that Mr H had paid to the garage 
but the chargeback was declined because the garage provided evidence to show that 
it had provided the services to Mr H that hed paid for;
I can understand Mr Hs frustration that he paid for repairs to the car that didnt fix the 
problem with it but the invoice shows that the garage replaced the cars turbo, oil 
filter, air filter and front pads and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to 
show that Mr H was entitled to a refund of the payment that he made to the garage in 
these circumstances;
I consider that Nationwide acted correctly by making a chargeback claim but it was 
defended by the garage and was declined under the applicable scheme rules - and I 
consider that it was reasonable for Nationwide not to dispute the claim any further;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Nationwide has acted 
incorrectly in these circumstances; and
I sympathise with Mr H for the issues that hes experienced, but I find that it wouldnt 
be fair or reasonable for me to require Nationwide to refund to him the payment that 
he made to the garage, to pay him any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman