DRN-3576468
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint against AEGON Investment Solutions Ltd (Aegon) is about the time taken 
to complete the transfer of his ISA funds.
What happened
Mr C submitted transfer requests to Aegon, through his independent financial adviser (IFA), 
on 3 April 2020. Mr C wanted to transfer the cash ISA balances he held with two other 
providers (A and B) and invest the funds as part of his Aegon portfolio.
On 10 April 2020, Aegon confirmed theyd requested the funds from A and B. Mr C heard 
nothing more about the transfers until January 2021 when his IFA contacted Aegon and was 
told that the funds had not been received. Aegon sent the requests to A and B again, the 
transfers were completed, and Mr Cs funds were invested on 8 February 2021.
Mr C complained that he lost out because his funds were not transferred and invested in his 
Aegon portfolio when they should have been. He said Aegon should compensate him for his 
losses. 
In response to Mr Cs complaint, Aegon said they didnt act incorrectly or cause a delay to 
the transfers. They said they made the transfer requests according to their process and 
waited for the funds to arrive. There was an onus on A and B to complete the transfers and 
on Mr Cs IFA to chase things up if necessary. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint. In summary, his findings were:
Aegon provided copies of emails they had sent to providers A and B on 9 and 10 April 
2020, but neither provider had any record of having received them. Our investigator 
thought there had been an error at Aegons end. 
Aegon had said it was not their policy to chase transfer requests, but our investigator 
thought they should have followed up Mr Cs requests as they had only recently begun 
contacting providers by email instead of post due to the covid pandemic.
Our investigator considered whether Mr Cs IFA had taken any action to help mitigate 
Mr Cs potential losses from the delay. He said there was no evidence that Mr Cs IFA 
had attempted to contact Aegon in writing until January 2021.  
In relation to Mr Cs potential losses, Aegon had provided a calculation based on a 
transfer date of 1 May 2020. Our investigator said Aegon should pay Mr C half the 
amount suggested by that calculation, which he thought would fairly reflect the role they 
played in the delay of the transfer. He did not think Aegon should pay the remaining half 
as Mr Cs IFA could have mitigated his losses by following up the transfer request sooner 
than January 2021.
Aegon disagreed with our investigators findings and said they were not responsible for any 
losses Mr C feels he has suffered. They said:
They sent the initial transfer requests in April 2020 to valid email addresses at providers 
A and B. 
It is not their policy to chase transfer requests and they do not agree that they should 
have done so in this case. They didnt previously chase requests sent in the post and 
they were of the view that email requests had less chance of going astray. If A and B 
hadnt got the initial requests, it would not have made any difference to send second 
emails to the same addresses.
They would only chase a transfer if asked to do so by the customer. Mr C and his IFA 
should have been monitoring whether the transfers had been made, but they didnt take 
any action for nine months. Although Mr Cs IFA said he couldnt get through to Aegon 
on the phone, he could have tried sending an email or letter.
As Aegon disagree with our investigator, Mr Cs complaint has been passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aegon have said they contacted A and B promptly after receiving Mr Cs transfer requests in 
April 2020. They have provided copies of emails that they sent to what appear to be valid 
email addresses. However, when our investigator contacted A and B, they both said they 
had no record of having received the emails from Aegon.  
I cant be sure what happened with the emails. But as neither A nor B has any record of 
having received a transfer request from Aegon, I think it is more likely than not that any 
problem was with the sending of the emails from Aegon. And that contributed to the delay in 
transferring Mr Cs funds.
Aegon have said it was not their policy to chase transfer requests and that the onus was on 
Mr Cs IFA to contact them if he was concerned about any delay. They have also said that 
email requests were less likely to go astray than those sent in the post. Ive considered what 
Aegon have said about their policy, and why they dont think they were responsible for the 
delay in Mr Cs transfers.
But, ultimately, Mr Cs transfer request took almost 10 months to complete. I think the initial 
cause of the delay was most likely a problem with the sending of the emails from Aegon. 
And I think it would have been reasonable for Mr C to expect Aegon to follow up the transfer 
requests when no response had been received from either A or B. So, I think Aegon are 
responsible for at least some of the delay experienced by Mr C.   
In considering what Aegon should do to put things right, I have looked at whether Mr C could 
have done anything to mitigate any losses. Mr Cs IFA contacted Aegon after about nine 
months to chase up the transfer requests. I note that Mr C has said his IFA tried to call 
Aegon before then but couldnt get through. But I think it would have been reasonable for 
Mr C, or his representative, to have done more to contact Aegon sooner than they did and I 
have taken account of that in determining fair compensation.Putting things right
Based on the evidence Ive seen, if nothing had gone wrong, I think Mr Cs funds would have 
been invested with Aegon as they were in February 2021, but much sooner. Although Aegon 
did not accept responsibility for any losses on Mr Cs part, they did provide a calculation of 
how much Mr C lost out on by not investing his transferred funds in May 2020. That estimate 
was £2,835.56. Although I cant be sure exactly when Mr Cs funds would have been 
invested, taking account of all the information available, I think that is a reasonable basis for 
estimating Mr Cs loss.
Taking account of everything I have said above, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
Aegon to compensate Mr C for 50% of that sum, which is £1,417.78. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against 
AEGON Investment Solutions Ltd.
Aegon should pay compensation of £1,417.78 to Mr C. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman