DRN-2784732
The complaint. 
Mr L complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE unfairly withdrew cover for his legal 
expenses insurance claim.
What happened
Mr L made a claim to cover an employment related dispute.
The claim was accepted, and fees covered up to late February 2020.
Before trial (in March) instructed solicitors obtained a barristers review of the 
prospects of success.
The barrister concluded these were well-below 50% (Ill refer to as Opinion B).
Great Lakes withdrew cover.
Mr L provided a further opinion from a barrister he instructed to present at trial and 
this opinion said prospects were above 51% (Ill refer to as Opinion C).
Great Lakes reconsidered prospects but determined in favour of Opinion B that 
prospects were well-below 50%.
Our investigator didnt think Great Lakes had unfairly withdrawn cover.
He said prior to trial Counsel reassessed prospects and considered they fell below 
the policy threshold of 51% and so it was fair that cover was withdrawn.
Mr L disagreed saying, in summary; 
initially prospects met the threshold and his barrister in preparing for 
trial considered prospects were still met. 
Great Lakes Counsel wasnt involved in trial preparation and their 
opinion was based on a brief conference with him so should carry less 
weight.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this concerns the position on prospects of success. 
Theres no dispute that cover only applies where Mr Ls claim has reasonable 
prospects of success (51% or greater chance of recovering losses or damages).
This is common in legal expenses policies and means an insurer doesnt have to 
meet costs for claims that are unlikely to be successful or where the costs are too 
high compared to the value of the claim. 
I dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer 
wouldnt want to pay the costs of a court case if advised its unlikely to succeed and it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to.
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice before deciding whether a claim has 
reasonable prospects. And the insurer is entitled to rely on that advice, unless its 
obviously wrong. 
Great Lakes ultimate decision was based on which barristers opinion it thought most 
persuasive. 
It factored in that Opinion Bs Counsel had a decade more experience than Counsel 
of Opinion C.
Opinion B was unequivocal that prospects fell well-below 50% whereas Opinion C 
was somewhat more equivocal about there being prospects above 51%. 
While Opinion C said prospects were above 51%, there was commentary about the 
borderline nature of the claim and some of the risks around how the Tribunal could 
perceive the nature of the claims in parts being far-fetched and Mr L coming across 
as delusional and fanciful.
This isnt of course to say those observations are factual certainties or realities, but 
when considered within the wider context of prospects they make for a less 
persuasive legal opinion than Opinion B.
On the question of whether reasonable prospects of success exist, Great Lakes was 
entitled to balance the evidence available to it, including all legal opinions obtained. 
On balance, I am satisfied it was fair that Great Lakes relied more heavily on 
Opinion B in reaching a conclusion that prospects were below 51%.
Although Mr L says Opinion B was based on a brief conference with him, I disagree. 
Its clear the barrister (at paragraph 2 of their opinion) considered the hearing bundle 
and witness statements and a conference with the instructed solicitors and Mr L.
And so Im satisfied it was fair that funding was withdrawn based on reliance of 
Opinion B.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman