DRN-4329445
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, irresponsibly lent to 
her.
What happened
Miss M opened a credit card account with Halifax on 22 July 2019. The credit limit was 
£4,000 and was never increased. 
 
Miss M says that Halifax shouldnt have lent to her. She says that she doesnt think proper 
checks were carried out by Halifax to ensure she could afford to repay the borrowing. Miss M 
says she was on benefits and constantly using her overdraft, which would have shown she 
couldnt afford to make repayments.
 
Halifax says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Miss M and that it acted 
appropriately and fairly.
Our investigator thought that Miss Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld.
Miss M did not agree. As Miss M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ms complaint.
Halifax needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
M could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts, how quickly the debt was being paid off and Miss Ms income 
and expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Halifax has explained that it did checks through a credit bureau when the account was 
opened. Miss M declared a gross annual income of £75,000 and said she owned her home 
without a mortgage. The credit check showed that Miss M didnt have any recent adverse 
information. For example, there was no evidence of any recent defaults on other credit, or 
any County Court Judgements or debt management plans and there were no missed 
payments on other credit in the six months prior to the application. Her external unsecured 
credit commitments were about £467 a month.
Halifax also relied on its own modelling of Miss Ms other living expenses. From all of the 
information Halifax had it assessed that Miss M would have a monthly disposable income of 
£3,381 a month. I havent seen anything to suggest these assessments were unreasonable. 
On this basis I think Halifax did sufficient checks before lending to Miss M. And I think it 
acted fairly on the results of those checks when it provided Miss M with the credit card. 
Miss M has said this wasnt the case. She said she was on benefits and Halifax ought to 
have been aware of this. Miss M said she would provide evidence to show that her 
circumstances werent as Halifax understood, but she hasnt done so. Even if Miss M had 
provided her bank statements or other evidence of her income and expenditure, I think 
Halifax ought reasonably to have been able to rely on the information Miss M gave it at the 
point of application about her income and home ownership status.
For this reason, I dont have enough information to satisfy me that Halifax didnt complete 
proportionate checks or that it didnt act fairly on the outcome of those checks. So, I cant 
say that Miss M lost out as a result of anything Halifax might have done wrong. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint, so it follows that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, 
doesnt have to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman