DRN-3156237
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr H are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim 
made under their travel insurance policy.
Reference to URV includes reference to its agents. 
What happened
Mrs N and Mr H had the benefit of an annual multi-trip, platinum, travel insurance policy - 
underwritten by URV (the policy). The policy covered the period 28 January 2020 and 27 
January 2021.
Mrs N and Mr H arranged a trip abroad to take place between the end of February 2020 and 
the end of March 2020 - which included travel to several countries.
In March 2020, Mrs N and Mr H were visiting an island which Ill call B. After visiting B, they 
were due to travel on to another country, which Ill call S.
On 17 March 2020, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised UK citizens against 
all but essential international travel.
The country which had jurisdiction over part of B (which Ill call M) also introduced a 
national lockdown with effect of 18 March 2020 and a special order restricting the entry of all 
foreign visitors from 18 March 2020 to 1 April 2020. 
Because of all this, Mrs N and Mr H decided to cut short their trip (they say on the advice of 
their tour operator). And on around 19 March 2020 they travelled to a city in M before taking 
a return flight to the UK a few days later.
After returning to the UK, Mrs N and Mr H made a claim on the policy for their irrecoverable 
expenses, including the costs of unused accommodation and certain flights.
URV declined the claim on the basis that the reason for Mrs N and Mr H cutting short their 
trip wasnt listed as an insured event under the relevant section of the policy.  
Unhappy, Mrs N and Mr H brought a complaint to our Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold their complaint. Mrs N 
and Mr H didnt agree. So, their complaint has been passed to me to consider everything 
afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidance say URV has an obligation to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
It should also give consumers enough information about a policy to enable them to decide if 
the policy is right for them. This should include an Insurance Product Information Document 
(IPID), giving a consumer a summary of certain policy terms  including (but not limited to) 
what is and isnt covered under the policy.
I know Mrs N and Mr H will be disappointed but Im not upholding their complaint because I 
dont think URV treated them unfairly in declining their claim in this particular case. I say that 
because:
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions and the IPID in this case. The 
curtailment section of Mrs N and Mr Hs policy (at page 9) sets out the specific set of 
circumstances in which this benefit is available. None of the circumstances described 
apply here: theres no cover for curtailment if a country starts closing its borders or 
enters a national lockdown because of a global pandemic. Or if the FCO advises 
against all but essential travel. 
Ive also reviewed the remaining sections of the policy, but I dont think there was any 
cover in the circumstances Mrs N and Mr H found themselves in. 
Page 17 of the policy sets out cover for Catastrophe. This section provides for a 
benefit of up to £1,000 to be paid to allow the beneficiaries of the policy to continue 
with their holiday if their accommodation is affected by stipulated issues such as a 
major outbreak of an infectious disease. But Mrs N and Mr H werent looking to 
continue with their holiday  they wanted to return to the UK. So, I dont think this 
section of the policy is relevant in this case. 
On the first page of the IPID it says: Are there restrictions on cover? [] there will be 
no cover if the FCO advises against travel to your destination And theres a 
general exclusion on page 7 of the policy which says: you are not covered under any 
section (of the policy), unless specified, for any of the following circumstancesyou 
are travelling to an area that is classified as Advise against all travel or Advise 
against all but essential travel by the Foreign and Commonwealth office at the time of 
your departure. There are some limited situations where, if I considered that the 
policy documentation wasnt clear in signposting a policyholder to certain policy 
exclusions, I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer to accept a claim 
outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think thats the case here 
because Im not persuaded that this general exclusion is relevant to this case. The 
FCO advice issued in March 2020 took place after Mrs N and Mr H departed the UK 
and whilst they were on their trip.
Summary:
While I can, of course, understand why Mrs N and Mr H returned to the UK when they did, 
for the reasons Ive explained above, the circumstances which led them to cut short their trip 
arent covered under the policy. And, considering everything, I dont think there are any 
grounds on which I can fairly direct URV to assess their claim on the basis that its covered 
under the curtailment section of the policy. 
I also note that Mrs N and Mr H say that the policy was mis-sold to them. If they havent 
already done so, they are free to contact the seller of the policy to raise a complaint about 
the sale of the policy in the first instance. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman