DRN-4497746
The complaint
Mrs C complains about the price charged by The National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance 
Society Limited (NFU) for her buildings insurance policy. She also complains about them 
removing her No Claims Discount.
What happened
Mrs C held buildings and contents cover with NFU. She sold her house but, because the 
house she was purchasing fell through, she moved into a rented property. Mrs C then 
allowed the buildings cover to lapse and continued with the contents cover for her rented 
property. Mrs C then bought a new home and reinstated her buildings cover but she wasnt 
happy about the price charged by NFU as she says the property size was the same. She 
also says it was unreasonable for NFU to remove her No Claims Discount (NCD) for her 
buildings insurance. 
NFU responded and explained they understand, for a brief period, Mrs C had to move into a 
rented property, while she was looking for a new home. They said buildings cover was 
removed from Mrs Cs policy on 1 February 2023 and reinstated on 13 June. They said the 
NCD on a home insurance policy doesnt work in the same way as it does with motor 
insurance and cant be carried over once the cover is removed. NFU explained, if theres a 
gap in cover and a customer isnt transferring the buildings cover directly from one property 
to another, the built up NCD is lost. 
Mrs C cancelled her buildings insurance after around two months. During our investigation, 
NFU accepted the NCD shouldve been applied at the point Mrs C took out buildings cover 
for her new home. NFU explained, given the policy had been cancelled, they were prepared 
to reinstate the policy, apply the NCD to the buildings cover from 13 June, and then re-
cancel the policy.       
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to     
Mrs C and NFU on 28 November 2023. In my provisional decision I said as follows: 
     
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to 
tell a business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they 
offer. This is a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see 
whether we agree a consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which 
demonstrates theyve been treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone 
has been treated unfairly, we can set out what we think is right to address this 
unfairness.
I understand Mrs C is concerned her premium was higher when she decided to 
reinstate her buildings cover. NFU have provided me with confidential business 
sensitive information to explain how Mrs Cs price increase was calculated. Im afraid 
I cant share this with her because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it 
carefully. The first point I would make is that the information shows there are 
differences between Mrs Cs previous property and new property. Ive also looked at 
the rating factors and loadings applied, and this shows specific rating factors where 
the loadings for Mrs Cs new property are higher when compared to the loadings 
applied to her previous property. So, while I acknowledge Mrs Cs concern about the 
two properties being the same size, this doesnt mean the price for the policy should 
be the same. The price is determined by rating factors and loadings - and the 
differences between the two properties, such as age and style of the property, have 
had an impact on the price of the policy. Ive seen how these factors, as well as 
others, have affected the loadings, so I cant say NFU have made an error in 
applying the rating factors and loadings they have to calculate the price. 
Mrs C may feel this is unfair, but its for a business to decide what risks theyre 
prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks. We do however 
expect businesses to treat customers fairly, and in this case, NFU increased Mrs Cs 
premium in keeping with the changes made to their risk ratings and underwriting 
guidelines. Its a change which has applied to all customers in the same 
circumstances, so, I cant say NFU have treated Mrs C unfairly. 
That said, I do think NFU have made an error in calculating the price for Mrs Cs 
policy. I can see buildings cover was removed from the policy in February as Mrs C 
no longer had an insurable interest in her previous property and hadnt at this point 
bought a new property. Theres no dispute Mrs C had four years or more NCD at the 
time she cancelled her buildings cover. When this was reinstated in June for Mrs Cs 
new property, the Statement of Insurance shows the NCD as None. NFU accept 
when buildings cover was added for the new property, they shouldve applied the 
NCD from the previous property. While theyve agreed to take steps to reinstate the 
policy to reapply the NCD, this means the price they charged Mrs C wasnt correctly 
calculated. 
I asked NFU to provide a recalculation of the premium showing what the price 
shouldve been had the NCD been applied at the point Mrs C added buildings cover 
for her new property. The calculation shows the price shouldve been £182.58 less 
had NFU applied the NCD. Given Mrs C had paid two instalments at the point of 
cancellation, this means she overpaid the amount of £30.43. So, NFU should 
reimburse this to Mrs C. Given that Mrs C shouldnt have been charged this 
additional amount and has therefore been without this sum, NFU should also pay 8% 
simple interest per year on this amount.    
I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for NFU to also pay Mrs C 
compensation for the upset and frustration caused. Its clear Mrs C was raising 
queries about why the NCD hadnt been applied but NFU missed an opportunity to 
put things right and still maintained in their complaint response that the built up NCD 
had been lost and couldnt be transferred over to Mrs Cs new property. So I think the 
upset and frustration to Mrs C was avoidable here had NFU realised their error at this 
point and taken steps to recalculate the price correctly by applying the NCD. There 
was also inconvenience caused to Mrs C in having to cancel her policy and take out 
a policy with another insurer  and the information shows her decision to do this was 
driven by the price charged by NFU. So, taking this all into account, I think 
compensation of £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
So, subject to any further comments from Mrs C or NFU, my provisional decision was that I 
was minded to uphold this complaint and require NFU to reimburse Mrs C the overpayment 
made and pay compensation. 
Following my provisional decision, both parties have responded and accept my decision.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with both parties accepting my decision, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision. So, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for the reasons set out in 
my provisional decision and copied above.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that NFU have made an error in calculating a price for Mrs Cs policy. So, 
to ensure the information is correctly recorded, they should reinstate the policy on their 
system, apply the correct NCD to the buildings cover from 13 June, and then re-cancel the 
policy. NFU should reimburse Mrs C the £30.43 overpaid by her together with 8% simple 
interest per year from the date the instalments were paid to the date of settlement. NFU 
should provide Mrs C with a certificate showing any taxation deducted. NFU should also pay 
Mrs C £150 compensation for the upset, frustration and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. The National Farmers Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited must take the steps in accordance with what Ive said under 
Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman