DRN-3926124
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited handled a claim she 
made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Miss B made a claim on her policy when her car was stolen in July 2021. The car was 
recovered and found with a key inside it. Miss B later complained because of the length of 
time Advantage was taking to investigate her claim. Advantage acknowledged there were 
delays, and as compensation it provided her with a hire car to use while the claim was being 
investigated, and it reimbursed the travel costs she had incurred which came to 
approximately £315.
Advantage later declined Miss Bs claim. It says its investigation found that the key that was 
in the car was used to steal it. Advantage thinks Miss B was aware that this key, which was 
her second key, had been missing since February 2020 but failed to take action to safeguard 
the car by arranging for the locks to be replaced. 
 
Miss B made a further complaint in November 2021 as she thought Advantage took too long 
to make a decision on her claim when it already knew about the spare key. Advantage 
acknowledged there had been further delays and paid her £200 in compensation.
 
Unhappy with Advantages response, Miss B brought her complaint to our service because:
 
She says Advantage failed to provide her with any updates on her claim and all 
contact was initiated by her. 
She thinks Advantage repeatedly lied about the status of her claim. 
She thinks its decision to decline the claim was based on information it had since she 
logged the claim. 
Miss B says that after the claim was declined, it was weeks before it released her 
car, and she had to pay for its storage. 
She would like compensation to help pay off the debt she was left with after having to 
sell the car in its damaged state, and settle the finance agreement she had taken out. 
She said this was due to Advantage declining the claim. 
Advantage thinks its decision to decline the claim was right. It also says that while it was 
aware of the spare key since the car was recovered, it would still attempt to validate the 
claim before making the decision to reject it. It thinks its compensated Miss B appropriately 
for the impact of its actions on her. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Advantage had 
shown Miss B failed to safeguard her car. She thought it was more likely than not that the 
spare key was stolen without Miss Bs knowledge, rather than due to her actions. Our 
investigator thought Advantage should pay the claim and refund the £364 storage and 
recovery costs it charged her. However, our investigator thought the compensation it paid 
was reasonable for the overall delays in dealing with the claim. 
Advantage didnt agree with the investigator, and as an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I used my provisional decision on 9 January 2023 in which I said: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to reach the 
same overall outcome as our investigator, but Im making a different award to what was 
suggested. Ill explain why.
Customer service
Advantage acknowledged the service it provided could be better. It took several months 
longer than I think was necessary for it to make a decision on Miss Bs claim. I understand 
Advantage wanted the second key analysed before it finalised its decision, but considering 
this was the key found in the car when it was recovered, I think it should have sent this to be 
analysed at the same time it sent the main key for analysis. At the very least, once it got the 
initial report regarding the main key, it could have then sent the spare key for analysis. This 
would have avoided a delay of around three months, as the first key was analysed in August 
2021, but the spare key wasnt sent in for analysis until November 2021.
Following her initial complaint about the delays, Advantage arranged a hire car for Miss B to 
use while it completed its investigation. It also says it reimbursed the travel costs she 
incurred up until that point. So, Im satisfied Miss B didnt lose out financially here. We would 
usually ask Advantage to compensate Miss B for the time she was without a car, but Miss B 
wasnt required to return the hire car until Advantage made its decision on the claim. So, 
while I think there were further unnecessary delays, Im satisfied Miss B didnt lose out up to 
this point. 
The process of making a claim can be stressful, and it will have been upsetting to find her 
car had been stolen. Considering this, I think the length of time Advantage took to come to a 
decision on Miss Bs claim, would have led to added stress and upset. Miss B says she was 
given incorrect information at times and I can see on at least one occasion this did happen. I 
can also see most of the communication was instigated by Miss B as she tried to find out the 
status of her claim. However, I think the £200 Advantage paid is fair compensation for the 
distress it caused her up to the point it made a decision regarding the claim. 
Declined claim
Advantage relied on the following terms in making its decision to decline Miss Bs claim. 
You, or any person in charge of your Car, must protect it from damage or loss.
Alarms, immobilisers and tracking devices must be on and working when your Car is 
left unattended
Your Car must be fully locked and secured and any Keys that unlock your Car must 
be removed when its left unattended or Unoccupied.
Ive considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Advantage to rely on this term and 
decline Miss Bs claim. Miss B confirmed her main key was in her bag inside her living room 
at the time of the theft. Its not disputed that the spare key was found in the car, but she also 
confirmed the spare key wasnt kept in it. Advantage hasnt shown Miss B failed to lock her car or that she failed to ensure the keys were removed from it at the time. So, I dont think 
its shown either of the bulleted points stated above would apply here. 
The term does require the policyholder to protect the car from loss or damage. So, Ive 
thought about whether Advantage has shown Miss B failed to safeguard her car. Ive 
considered whether Miss B recognised there was a risk and didnt take any action to prevent 
that risk.
Miss B confirmed she was provided with two sets of keys when she purchased the car. 
Advantage thinks she was aware the keys had been misplaced 18 months prior to the 
incident- this is from the time she purchased it in February 2020. But I think its likely down to 
a matter of how you interpret what she said when it questioned her. Miss B told us she 
hadnt used the spare key since she bought the car and only realised it was missing when 
Advantage informed her a second key was found in the car when it was recovered. 
Considering she hadnt had cause to use it, on balance, I think its unlikely Miss B was aware 
the spare key was missing until after the theft. 
Even if Miss B knew earlier that it was misplaced, Im not persuaded she recognised there 
was a risk of her car being stolen as she thought the spare key was still inside her home. As 
Miss B wasnt aware of a risk to her car, I dont find it reasonable to expect her to have taken 
steps to safeguard the car by having the locks changed, as Advantage has argued. Miss B 
told us she needed her car to get to her place of work, so I think she would have taken 
action if she knew the key was missing or might have been taken from her home by 
someone. Ultimately, Im not persuaded Miss B failed to safeguard her car from theft. This is 
because I dont think she thought there was a risk her car would be stolen due to her 
misplacing the spare key and that she ignored that risk. Therefore, I dont think the decision 
to decline her claim was fair or reasonable. 
As such, I think Advantage should pay Miss Bs claim, in line with the terms and conditions 
of the policy. Advantage deemed the car a total loss, so it should pay the cars market value. 
In cases where a consumer keeps the car after its been written off, we usually think the 
insurer is entitled to deduct the salvage costs from the settlement payment. I note Miss B 
sold the car to a third party and she told us it sold for £1,000. I think thats a good indication 
of what the salvage amount would have been. In the circumstances, I think its fair for 
Advantage to deduct the amount she received for the car, from the settlement figure. It 
should add 8% simple interest per year on the amount it pays her, from the date of the 
incident to the date it makes the payment. 
I dont think its fair for it to charge Miss B for recovering the car from the police. The terms of 
the policy say it may request such costs from the policyholder if the claim is declined. As I 
think it should pay the claim, I think Advantage should also refund the £364 it charged her. 
And pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date the payment was taken 
until it reimburses her.
Advantage told us Miss B contacted its salvage agents and was informed that they wouldnt 
be able to return the car unless to someone with a breakers licence, due to the car being a 
category B write off. It says the only delay was in Miss B finding a company to collect the 
car. So, I dont think it needs to compensate for the time it took to release it. 
Miss B told us she replaced her car in December 2021 and had to borrow money to settle 
the finance agreement on the written off car. Miss B told us she couldnt get to work without 
a car, and  she had to take taxis and rely on others to get her there. We normally consider it 
reasonable for an insurer to pay £10 per day for the period in which its errors have meant a 
consumer had not had use of their car. Therefore, I think Advantage should pay an 
additional £400 in compensation for the month that Miss B was without a car to use until she bought a new one, and for the distress its decision to decline her claim caused...
Miss B accepted my provisional decision and Advantage didnt provide any further 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any additional comments for me to consider, I see no reason 
to depart from what I said in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and require Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to: 
 Pay the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. It should pay the 
cars market value, less the amount Miss B received when she sold it. It should add 
8% simple interest on the settlement from the date of the incident until payment is 
made. *
 Refund the £364 it charged her plus 8% interest per year simple from the date Miss B 
made this payment to Advantage to the date it issues the refund. *
 It should also pay £400 in compensation.
*If Advantage considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should also give Miss B a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman