DRN-3925226
The complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to refund transactions he didnt 
authorise.
What happened
Mr B had recently received a new debit card and changed the personal identification number
(PIN) for it. Due to memory issues, Mr B explained that he wrote the PIN down on a piece of
paper and kept it with the card.
Mr B said he hid the card and PIN under the floorboards in his bathroom. He described how
he has sleep issues and eventually fell asleep for an hour or so, woke mid-morning and
found his flat had been ransacked. He believed hed been robbed by a female who was at
his house. Mr B said shed broken through the floorboards and taken his card, creating such
a mess that he had to have a new floor put down.
Mr B later found that three cash withdrawals had been made from an automated teller
machine (ATM) using his card that he hadnt authorised. He didnt notify NatWest until four
days after the withdrawals had taken place. Mr B explained that hed also reported this to the
police.
Mr B asked NatWest for a refund but they declined. NatWest advised Mr B that this was his
third recent report of unauthorised use of his card and that keeping the PIN and card
together was in breach of their terms. They also believed that the withdrawals didnt follow a
typical fraud pattern as they were made over several hours on the day of the theft after the
account received funds into it.
Mr B then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent
review where it was looked into by one of our investigators. She thought it was likely Mr B
had authorised the transactions himself, also that it was negligent to keep the card and PIN
together.
Mr B disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of his complaint which has
now been passed to me for a decision. I asked both Mr B and NatWest about Mr Bs medical
conditions. Mr B advised hed updated NatWest about them prior to the loss of his funds.
NatWests records indicated theyd recorded some details concerning Mr Bs health, but not
related to any memory issues he may have.
I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Gross Negligence
In their various responses to Mr B, NatWest believed that he was responsible for the
transactions and in breach of his terms by not keeping the card safe (grossly negligent).
Firstly, Id like to address the issue of whether NatWest can hold Mr B responsible for the
transactions because they believe he was grossly negligent.
Gross negligence is a high bar to prove and its Mr Bs case that he wrote the PIN down and
kept it with his card under his bathroom floorboards. NatWests records describe that the PIN
was written on the back of the card.
Here theres a difference in reporting from Mr B about how the PIN was recorded, so its
difficult to make a case about gross negligence when the circumstances are unclear. I dont
think that by keeping the PIN written down on a piece of paper with the card in a hidden
space in his home would be considered grossly negligent. If the card and PIN were together
in a wallet or pocket when they were lost outside the home, or indeed if the PIN was written
on the back of the card than that would be a different matter. But thats not the case here. Its
not unreasonable for the PIN to be written down and kept at home, particularly considering
Mr B has said he suffers from memory retention issues. So, I dont think that NatWest can
rely on gross negligence here to deny Mr B a refund.
Authorisation
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that NatWest can hold Mr B liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
NatWest can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr B authorised the
transactions, but NatWest cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively proves
that the payments were authorised.
Unless NatWest can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Mr Bs account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to Mr B. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr B responsible for the disputed
transactions or not.
Ive looked at how the withdrawals were made. Mr Bs statements show that he regularly
withdrew the payments he received into his account through multiple cash withdrawals  in a
pattern very similar to the disputed transactions hes complained about here. Those
withdrawals also took place at an ATM regularly used by Mr B. The withdrawals were made 
soon after new funds were added to the account, which indicates whoever took those funds 
had a good idea they were about to arrive.
Mr B told our investigator that hed hidden the card and PIN some 18 inches under the
floorboards of his bathroom. Mr B also reported a female at the property, so its possible that
she knew where the card and PIN were kept. Mr B also said that the damage was so
extensive that his floor had to be replaced, which I would think have being quite noisy. Mr B
had fallen asleep and said he wasnt aware of the floor being taken up until he woke about
an hour later around 10:00 am.
It was at that point he found his bathroom floor damaged and his card gone. NatWest
provided details of when the disputed transactions took place which were spread out
throughout that day and didnt start until 3:31 pm that afternoon.What that means here based on Mr Bs testimony, was that he was aware of the cards loss
sometime after 10:00 am but didnt notify NatWest until about four days later. I asked Mr B
about the timing of his report to NatWest and he said that he was so shocked and stressed
by the situation that he couldnt call straight away. He also said he was unable to leave the
house and tried to call but kept getting an answer machine (at NatWest). I havent yet seen
any evidence of Mr B trying to contact NatWest earlier than the current record shows, so if
he has evidence of this then Ill consider it.
There was a window of about four  five hours between noticing the loss and the disputed
transactions. I think this was a reasonable opportunity for Mr B to notify NatWest about the
loss of his card. Its then likely that NatWest would have cancelled the card preventing any
loss to him.
Ive thought about the information concerning Mr Bs medical issues that NatWest were
aware of prior to the disputed transactions. NatWest held records about certain issues Mr B
was experiencing but not about any memory issues. Mr B believed hed reported this to them
some time earlier. I currently dont think Mr Bs complaint revolves directly around his
memory issues as they relate primarily to writing the PIN down. But, as NatWest are now
aware of this, they have an opportunity to assess how they deliver their banking services to
Mr B.
Overall, I currently think its more likely than not that Mr B was responsible for making these
transactions either himself or that he authorised others to use his card. Ive considered his
reaction to finding the bathroom floor damaged and his card gone, but here there was an
opportunity to protect his funds if Mr B had told NatWest about them once he found out
about the loss, which was the third time this had happened in recent months.
So, even if I was persuaded that his card and PIN were taken without his permission, Im
currently intending not to uphold this complaint because Mr B delayed notifying NatWest,
preventing them from protecting his funds. I dont think that it would be fair for NatWest to
refund Mr B in those circumstances.
I invited Mr B and NatWest to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me 
to consider before issuing my final decision. NatWest didnt respond and Mr B has made 
further submissions concerning the circumstances surrounding the loss of his card. He, in 
summary, said that his forgetfulness prevented him from notifying the bank for four days. He 
further commented that his other conditions prevented him from leaving the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as neither party had anything further to add that would change my 
opinion, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the 
findings set out in my provisional decision. But, Ill provide further reasoning based on Mr Bs 
additional submissions.
Ive thought about the circumstances of the complaint, including the medical issues 
experienced by Mr B. It is, of course, possible that Mr B was unaware of his floor being 
ripped up and was incapable of notifying the bank for such a long period of time, but I have 
to take all the evidence into account and where theres a difference in the interpretation of 
what happened, as there is here, I have to make my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities. In order to uphold this complaint, I would have to be satisfied that:
Mr B was unaware that his bathroom floor was being dismantled without waking him 
(to such an extent that it required contractors to visit and repair it).
The person who took his card knew hed hidden it some 18 inches below the 
bathroom floor.
Mr B was prevented from notifying the bank, even though hes said he became 
aware of the loss after waking up. 
The timings of the withdrawals seemed to indicate that they knew funds were due to 
be paid into the account.
The location of the ATM - which was also previously used by Mr B; and 
the pattern of withdrawals (which followed the usual way he used his account), was 
somehow a coincidence.
This was also the third time this had happened to Mr B. So, taken together, it seems unlikely 
this is the answer here. 
On balance, I think it more likely than not that Mr B was responsible for the withdrawals, 
either made himself, or he allowed another person to make them. The pattern of withdrawals 
doesnt match the usual way a stolen card is used, particularly the delay in making the first 
withdrawal  which seems to indicate the user was waiting to make withdrawals because 
they knew the account was receiving funds.
Mr B has maintained that his forgetfulness is the reason he never notified the bank about the 
loss of his card. NatWests records dont mention this additional factor, so I dont think that 
they could have done anything more to prevent this situation. I dont think that, even if I was 
persuaded he didnt authorise the use of his card, that NatWest should be responsible for 
refunding him.
There was an opportunity to notify the bank about the loss once it became apparent that his 
card and PIN were missing. This wasnt the first time this had happened to Mr B, so I dont 
think its fair or reasonable to expect the bank to refund Mr B for this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman