DRN-3985638
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly increased the monthly 
repayments for their offset mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have had an offset mortgage with Barclays for some years. They also have a 
linked current account (the mortgage current account or MCA) with an overdraft facility. This 
debt has to be repaid when the mortgage is repaid.
Mrs L says the mortgage and MCA worked well for them for several years. They used the 
MCA overdraft to fund property purchases and they make regular payments into the 
account. However, about three years ago Barclays increased the amount it was taking by 
direct debit each month. This was without any explanation and despite them making 
payments of over £70,000 into the MCA. 
Our investigator said the higher payments were correct. In summary, interest accrued on the 
MCA is added to the mortgage balance, which resulted in higher monthly payments.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. Mrs L sent detailed comments and evidence explaining her 
concerns.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays provided information about Mr and Mrs Ls accounts. Mrs L also sent information, 
including spread sheets with their mortgage balance and payments. Ive looked carefully at 
all this information, as well as the information Barclays sent to Mr and Mrs L about their 
accounts.
Having done so, I think the payments taken by Barclays were consistent with the way these 
accounts are intended to work, and with the information it provided to Mr and Mrs L. 
Mrs L says the problems started in late 2019 when Barclays increased their monthly 
mortgage payments. Barclays says this followed a year-end recalculation of the monthly 
payments needed to repay the mortgage over the remaining term. Barclays provided a copy 
of the annual statement sent to Mr and Mrs L in October 2019. This said from November 
2019 the monthly payment needed to repay the loan over the remaining term was £735. This 
is the amount Mr and Mrs L paid for the next five months. 
There was a change in the interest rate in April 2020, and it seems this triggered a 
recalculation of the monthly payment. The balance at the point of the recalculation resulted 
in a higher monthly payment (about £20 more) being due in April 2020. Mrs L became aware 
of this in March 2020 and contacted Barclays. Mrs L says she didnt understand the 
explanation given by Barclays. But agreed to switch the mortgage to a payment reduction 
basis, as Barclays said this would mean that higher payments wouldnt be taken. Mrs L says 
they received a letter saying their CMP was about £670 and thought matters were resolved. 
Shortly after this, Mrs L saw Barclays had taken a payment of more than £925. 
The switch to a payment reduction basis didnt mean that higher payments wouldnt be 
taken. Because Mr and Mrs L had a large MCA overdraft, the opposite happened  the 
payments increased. Ive explained why I think this was correct below.
Mr and Mrs L made a complaint and the mortgage was switched back to a term reducing 
basis. Their payments from July 2020 to October 2020 were about £670. This was the 
monthly payment as set out in the letter Mrs L says she received a couple of months earlier.
Mr and Mrs Ls monthly payment was recalculated in October 2020. Their 2020 annual 
statement says the monthly payment needed to repay the loan over the remaining term was 
about £690. This is the amount Mr and Mrs L paid for the next 12 months. 
Mr and Mrs Ls monthly payment was again re-calculated in October 2021. Barclays sent Mr 
and Mrs L their 2021 annual statement which said from November 2021 the monthly 
payment needed to repay the loan over the remaining term was £744. Mr and Mrs L paid 
£744 in November and December 2021. In late 2021, Mr and Mrs L asked for the mortgage 
to be switched to a payment reducing basis. Their payment increased in January 2022. I 
think this was right, and Ive explained why below.
Why I think the monthly payments are correct
Mr and Mrs L make a monthly payment into their mortgage account. Barclays calculates the 
amount of the monthly payment to ensure the mortgage is repaid by the expiry date. 
However, this is an offset mortgage. So any credit (or debit) balances in Mr and Mrs Ls 
linked accounts affect the amount of interest applied to the mortgage account.
Mr and Mrs L have small credit balances and so this has little impact. But the overdraft 
balance on their MCA is much greater than their mortgage balance, so this does have a 
significant effect on the interest being applied to their mortgage account. 
Interest on the MCA is added to the outstanding balance in the mortgage account. Whether 
this interest is added to the monthly payment depends whether the mortgage is on a term 
reducing or payment reducing basis.
The mortgage statements sent to Mr and Mrs L explain this under the heading MCA debit 
interest. This says when the MCA debt is greater than the credit balances in the linked 
accounts (as is the case with Mr and Mrs Ls accounts) the debit interest will be added to the 
outstanding balance of the mortgage account. It goes on to say that if the mortgage is on a 
payment reducing basis the monthly payment is increased to cover the debit interest from 
the MCA. This is what happened with Mr and Mrs Ls payments in mid-2020 and from early 
2022. 
While Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage was on a term reducing basis, their monthly payments 
remained the same. The MCA interest was still added to the mortgage balance. The higher 
mortgage balance was taken into account when their monthly payments were recalculated, 
for instance at the year-end in October each year. 
Mr and Mrs L made lump sum payments into the MCA. Those payments reduced the 
overdraft balance. But the payments didnt go towards paying the interest accrued each 
month. The interest was added to the mortgage account. In response to our investigators view, Mrs L asked why they didnt have similar issues with 
payments before 2019. I can see she highlighted queries on some payments pre-dating 
2019 on her spread sheets. When they brought the complaint to us, Mrs L said the problems 
with their payments started in late 2019. This is the complaint we looked into. I cant fairly 
look into new issues (such as about payments before late 2019) when Mr and Mrs L havent 
raised these issues with Barclays and given it an opportunity to respond. 
Did Barclays make errors which caused Mr and Mrs L any loss?
I think the payments taken by Barclays were right. And I dont think Mr and Mrs L were 
caused financial loss when they made the payments. All of the payments they made reduced 
the amount they owe to Barclays. Mr and Mrs L made overpayments into the MCA, which 
suggests they didnt struggle with their monthly payments. And Mrs L says if Barclays did 
return the payments, theyd simply use the money to make an overpayment to reduce the 
amount they owe.
Mrs L says she wants to know how much money is to come out of their bank account each 
month, and for Barclays to admit its errors.
Mr and Mrs Ls monthly payment will change from time to time. It will be recalculated at the 
end of each year and there could be other events that trigger a recalculation, such as a 
change in interest rates. The annual mortgage statement sets out the new monthly payment, 
and Barclays should notify Mr and Mrs L of any other changes. Barclays says this 
information is also available to Mr and Mrs L online. 
It's the nature of an offset mortgage that the amount of interest will depend on the balances 
in the linked accounts as well as the mortgage balance. Mr and Mrs L can check online for 
the amount of their next payment. If Mr and Mrs L dont want the interest from the MCA to be 
added to their monthly payments they can consider having the mortgage on a term reducing 
basis. 
Barclays explained why Mr and Mrs Ls monthly payments increased in its final response 
letter. The annual statements set out the monthly payments. And the monthly statements 
explain what happens with the interest on the MCA. 
I dont think Barclays made errors that would make it fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances to require it to take any further steps. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman