DRN-2086134
The complaint
Mr I feels that Equifax Limited has treated him unfairly in relation to his credit file.
  
What happened
On Mr Is credit file it has been reported on a regular basis that there is a linked address. 
Both parties now accept that this linked address has nothing to do with Mr I and shouldnt 
have ever been linked to him on his credit file. Furthermore both parties accept that Mr I has 
over a significant period had to be in regular liaison with Equifax and other parties (who 
report on his credit file) in order to sort this issue out. Equifax for a significant period of time 
said that the fault didnt sit with it until latterly confirming it was at fault after this Service 
became involved.
After discovering this issue Mr I complained to Equifax and it rejected his complaint entirely. 
Only after this service became involved did Equifax accept that all the issues which have 
impacted Mr I in this matter originate from it. It then offered him £200 which he refused. 
Equifax then applied a Notice of Correction to Mr Is actual property (not the erroneous 
linked property) leading to Mr I having to complain to it again. It offered Mr I a further £50 for 
this error.
Mr I remains unhappy because the erroneously linked property was on his file for so long 
and because hes told us that he estimates hes spent over 120 hours trying to fix this issue 
over a period of eight months. He also points to complications he suffered in applying for 
mortgages and losses he says he suffered in missed mortgage rates due to these issues.
Our investigator felt that Equifax hadnt done enough and said Equifax should pay £500 to 
Mr I, cover all the charges paid to monitor his credit file since these issues arose and pay for 
(or the equivalent cash price) of a further six months of charges to access his credit file 
through Equifax. Equifax has accepted this. But Mr I doesnt think this is fair. So he wants 
more in terms of redress for the reasons Ive described. So this complaint comes to me to 
decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accept what has happened here and there is no debate about the facts of the 
linked property or the Notice of Correction. What is disputed is what is an appropriate 
remedy for what has happened here. Having considered all of what Mr I says I shall now 
address the key issues of this matter as I see them.
Mr I points to three mortgages he had to remortgage during this time. He says these 
problems with his personal credit file caused complications in applying for mortgages and 
also forced him to accept rates which werent as preferential as they would otherwise have 
been. I can appreciate Mr I did spend significant time trying to sort out these matters. But 
there are a number of relevant observations I should make here.
In relation to the first mortgage Mr I was applying for a mortgage not in his capacity as an 
individual but in his capacity as a director of a limited company-an entirely separate legal 
entity to Mr I. This mortgage application was in itself successful and as a consequence there 
is no direct financial loss to that limited company. If that limited company wished to complain 
about the inconvenience caused to it then it could be an eligible complainant under our rules. 
But I cannot consider any losses in relation to this first mortgage including in terms of 
inconvenience as this decision is solely with regard to Mr Is personal credit file and 
considering what losses he suffered personally in this complaint made in his personal 
capacity.
With regard to the other two re-mortgages that Mr I has evidenced, I note both are joint 
mortgages held with other individuals. And clearly any lending decisions made by 
businesses are dependent on those commercial decisions regarding the credit worthiness of 
all parties linked to the mortgage. Not purely any issues with Mr Is personal credit file.
I should add that Mr I hasnt suffered direct financial loss here. He may have suffered loss of 
opportunity. In fact at one stage he explains this by saying he is denied the opportunity of 
better terms. Mr I points to mortgage deals offered on comparison websites. These deals 
are illustrations of what may be offered in certain circumstances but are not binding 
mortgage offers. They are more of an indicator as to what is available if borrowers fulfil 
lending criteria perfectly. Furthermore companies offering mortgages perform a wide variety 
of checks and considerations when consumers such as Mr I make applications to them. And 
it is not until these are complete do companies then making binding mortgage offers. 
These checks do include reference to credit reference agencies, but such commercial 
decisions arent solely based on these credit reference agencies (and it should be 
remembered that other credit reference agencies were not erroneously reporting this 
supposed linked property). Commercial enterprises such as mortgage companies are solely 
responsible for their lending decisions. And it should be remembered that Mr I was applying 
for mortgages jointly with other parties and that he knew throughout he had no link to the 
linked property. He has fallen short of persuading me that he and his co-mortgagees would 
on balance have received better rates but for the failings of Equifax.
Also I should add that Mr I says he was forced to take the rates he did take because he felt 
he had no choice. Im not persuaded by this. Throughout this matter Mr I has known that he 
has no interest in the erroneously reported property linked to his file. He has always argued 
this from once he was on notice of it. So it follows that hed have realised sooner or later the 
matter would be likely to be resolved despite Equifaxs substantial failings on the matter. And 
ultimately Mr Is decision-making sits with him. He could have moved onto the standard 
variable rate or entered into other mortgages with other firms which may have at even better 
rates than those he says he missed out on. That he chose to take the deals offered doesnt 
sit with Equifax despite its litany of errors here. After all the other agencies were reporting 
correctly.
Mr I points to Equifax having all the correct information throughout and should have done 
better. Equifax have agreed it made failings in this matter and made an offer to resolve these 
issues, albeit after rejecting Mr Is correct position for some months. However Im not 
persuaded that this was due to Equifax doing so deliberately. I think it just failed repeatedly 
to give the matter proper consideration. Mr I also wants further understanding of what 
actually went wrong and why. But this service is designed to be quick, free and impartial in 
resolving disputes. I think this decision can fairly resolve this dispute without the need for a 
granular examination of already agreed failings.Mr I has said that he has suffered significant financial, emotional and reputational losses. But 
Ive described why I think his arguments about financial loss are not persuasive. With regard 
to reputational loss Mr I hasnt pointed to evidence of that and it is clear his business 
partners and co-mortgagees continued to enter into mortgage agreements with him. And as 
for his personal distress and inconvenience I think the following is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances all things considered.
Mr I also puts describes his disappointment on seeing latterly that Equifax had made further 
mistakes on his credit file with regard to a notice of correction being erroneously placed on 
his credit file and on his actual property address which he wasnt disputing, being his actual 
property address. Equifax in light of everything only offered Mr I £50 for this. Considering the 
significant distress and inconvenience Mr I has suffered over a significant period of time Im 
not persuaded this fairly reflects what happened. I had the investigator contact Equifax on 
this matter to allow it to consider some suggestions of mine on these issues. 
Equifax has responded to say it feels its position is fair. I have considered Equifaxs 
arguments here and what has happened afresh, and I dont think it has fairly considered the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr I overall, considering this entirely avoidable further 
mistake which on top of what had happened would have been more distressing considering 
the history of what happened already. I dont think Equifax have considered this particular 
issue in the appropriate context.
  
Putting things right
Accordingly I direct Equifax to pay Mr I a total of £600 in distress and inconvenience (less 
any distress and inconvenience payments already made). 
I also direct it to refund him the cost of using its services he has paid since October 2019 to 
the date of writing to him as below (less any subscription refunds already made regarding 
this time period). 
Equifax should make these arrangements and payments to Mr I within 28 days of notification 
that Mr I accepted this decision. It must write to him once this is done explain outlining the 
payments made and confirm with Mr I whether or not he wishes to continue paying for its 
services.
Mr I is at liberty to not accept this and pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes. However 
this decision brings to an end our investigation process into this matter.
  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint about 
Equifax Limited and it should remedy the matter as I have set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman