DRN-2339416
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Credit Resource Solutions Ltd (CRS) treated her poorly when 
she asked it for proof of a debt.
What happened
CRS was acting as a debt collector on behalf of a short-term lending creditor. It was chasing 
Miss B for payment.
In October 2019, Miss B asked for evidence of her debt. But CRS declined to provide this, 
and instead threatened her with court action.
Miss B complained, and CRS agreed its staff had taken too harsh a tone. It passed the debt 
back to the original creditor, and apologised.
However, Miss B explained that shed found CRSs contact really distressing, and it had 
caused a flare up of a condition. She asked our service for help.
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. He felt CRSs 
apology didnt go far enough, and awarded £150 compensation.
CRS didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Its completely understandable for Miss B to want to check whether a company chasing her 
for money is genuine or not. The email she originally sent may have caused some confusion 
for CRS  it appears to be a template email which has some odd use of legalistic terms and 
asks for some irrelevant things like the deed of assignment. But all the same, CRS should 
have sent Miss B relevant evidence of the debt such as the agreement and statements, so 
its not right that it failed to do so when asked.
Its also not right that CRS was so needlessly rude and condescending. As it has now 
accepted, its tone was inappropriate in addition to being unhelpful.
While CRS has apologised, I dont think thats enough to put things right here. Instead, we 
often tell businesses to pay compensation in order to recognise their error and the impact it 
had. And here, its clear that the matter caused Miss B unfair distress. She explained she felt 
belittled and made to feel insignificant, and that the anxiety worsened a medical condition.
So I agree with our investigator that CRS should pay Miss B £150 to put things right.
I will note that, as our investigator explained, CRS was only the debt collector here and didnt 
own the account itself. So it does not appear that it cleared the debt, it looks like it just 
passed the debt back to the original creditor. Miss B should get in touch with the original 
creditor if shed like to query the balance. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Bs complaint, and direct Credit Resource 
Solutions Ltd to pay her £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman