DRN-3347198
The complaint and what happened
Ms L complains NewDay Ltd wont refund the money she lost when she fell victim to a scam.
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision:
In 2018, Ms L came across a social media advert for a merchant called 365 Markets, 
which were purporting to offer investment services. She submitted her details and an 
agent got in touch. She was directed to deposit $250 to start trading, which she was 
told could produce around $3,000 profit. She was persuaded to pay a further $1,000 
to maximise her profits. She says this was traded to make around £5,000 profit. 
Then, on 5 November 2018, she paid £900.50 from her NewDay credit card, also 
incurring a £24.76 transaction fee. Please note, the other payments were made from 
different accounts. 
Following this, the profits Ms L thought shed made were largely wiped out, and the 
merchant tried to pressure her to make further deposits to recoup this. She asked to 
withdraw her funds. She was initially ignored, then told to pay c.£850 (from another 
account) as a withdrawal fee. But 365 Markets only returned around £1,000, despite 
the account showing an available balance around £2,900. 
Suspecting it was a scam, Ms L reported the matter to NewDay. It said the payment 
had flagged as suspicious, but shed confirmed that she wanted to proceed. And 
there were no chargeback rights under the relevant scheme provider (Mastercard) for 
investment transactions. So it wouldnt refund her.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They werent satisfied NewDay did enough in 
response to the risk it identified. If it had, they thought Ms Ls loss could have been 
prevented.
Its been over four months since our investigator upheld the complaint. As NewDay still 
hasnt confirmed its response, the matter has been referred to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for the following reasons: 
Its not in dispute that Ms L was scammed. For completeness, on balance, Im 
satisfied she was. Shes provided emails showing she was dealing with 365 Markets, 
which the FCA have issued a warning about for operating without the required 
authorisation. That indicates they were operating illegally, probably with dishonest 
intentions  as legitimate firms tend to comply with regulatory requirements. And the 
behaviour Ms L has reported  such as that they controlled her accounts, refused her 
withdrawal requests, and the level of initial profit  is indicative of a scam. 
Its also not in dispute that Ms L authorised the transaction. So the starting position is 
that shes liable for the resulting loss. But there are some situations where we believe 
that bankstaking into account relevant rules, codes and best practiceought to 
have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider circumstances 
surrounding the transaction before making a payment.
Here, we know NewDay did identify the payment as suspicious. So the key question 
is whether it responded proportionately to the risk it identified. We havent been given 
a record of the contact about this  NewDay has simply told us Ms L confirmed the 
transaction was genuine and that she wanted it to be authorised. Based on the 
information its provided about why the payment flagged and NewDays response, Im 
not persuaded it did enough. A key feature of these scams is the consumer is tricked 
into making the payment, believing the investment to be genuine. So checking she 
knew about the payment wasnt enough for NewDay to satisfy itself all was well. I 
think it should have looked into the circumstances further.
If NewDay had asked Ms L relevant questions, I think she would have explained she 
was acting on the instructions of 365 Markets  which had an active FCA warning 
published against them. And from what shes told us, there were some other signs Id 
reasonably have expected the bank to realise could indicate a scam. Such as that 
she found it via a social media advert, how they were controlling the trading account, 
and the level of profit they led her to expect. Ive seen nothing which makes me doubt 
that Ms L would have heeded a firm warning from her bank that this sounded like a 
scam  breaking the spell and preventing her from proceeding.
Im conscious the payments didnt clearly show on the statement as going directly to 
365 Markets. But Ms L has told us they did, and I cant see NewDay has disputed 
this. In any event, its clear that, from Ms Ls perspective, she was paying 365 
Markets  so thats who she was likely to have mentioned in the call. As set out 
above, but for NewDays failure to make appropriate enquiries, it would have been on 
actual notice that Ms L was likely going to suffer financial harm from fraud. The loss 
therefore ought to have been within the contemplation of, and foreseeable to, 
NewDay. So Im persuaded its fair and reasonable to hold it liable for this. 
Ive also considered whether Ms L was partly to blame for what happened. I dont 
think she reasonably foresaw the risk this payment was part of a scam. As a 
layperson, she was unfamiliar with these types of scams and their warning signs, and 
theres nothing to suggest she knew to check the merchants details on the FCAs 
warning list. She was persuaded by her contact with 365 Merchants, and the 
sophisticated techniques it used to appear as though shed made a profit  likely to 
convince her to deposit more. She didnt experience any problems until after she 
made this payment. Given the sophisticated nature of the scam, Im satisfied there 
was no contributory negligence.
Ive found that, but for NewDays mistake, Ms L wouldnt have made this payment. 
So I dont need to consider if it could have recovered this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
NewDay Ltd to:
Refund Ms L for the £900.50 payment, and put her credit card account in the position 
it would have been in had the payment never been made  including any interest and 
charges applicable to those (such as the transaction fee); and Add 8% interest on any repayments Mr G made towards the credit card balance in 
respect of those transactions, from the date of the payments to the date of 
settlement, less any lawfully deductible tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman