DRN-2719817
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that they were given incorrect information by 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) about whether they could port their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out an interest only buy-to-let mortgage with NatWest in January 2017. 
In October 2018 they took a new interest rate deal on the mortgage. The rate they took out 
was a fixed rate for five years. If the mortgage was repaid within that time, theyd have to pay 
an early repayment charge (ERC). Mr and Mrs S have said they asked, when taking out this 
new rate, if the mortgage could be ported to another property they already owned. Theyve 
said NatWest told them it could be.
Mr and Mrs S called NatWest in January 2020 to again discuss porting. They again asked if 
the mortgage could be ported to a property they already owned and were told it could be. 
They were also told that an ERC of 3% would apply if the mortgage was repaid in full.
Mr and Mrs S spoke to NatWest again about a month after this. At the point they were told 
theyd been given incorrect information previously and that the mortgage could not be ported 
to a property they already owned.
Mr and Mrs S complained to NatWest. They felt NatWest should allow them to port the 
mortgage as it said they could or waive the ERC.
NatWest acknowledged it had provided incorrect information. So, it arranged to pay £300 for 
the upset caused to the account Mr and Mrs S made their mortgage repayments from. It said 
though it would not allow the mortgage to be ported outside of its usual policy and, if repaid, 
an ERC would be applicable to the mortgage.
It was later confirmed that the ERC would in fact be 4%, as the rate of 3% only became 
effective from January 2021, under the terms of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs S sold the 
mortgaged property and redeemed the mortgage in December 2020.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He felt the £300 already paid by NatWest 
for the incorrect information it provided about being able to port the mortgage was fair. But 
he felt NatWest should pay an additional £100, as he found it had also incorrectly quoted the 
level of ERC payable, which he felt wouldve caused further upset. He didnt think though 
that the ERC should be refunded or that the incorrectly quoted level needed to be honoured, 
as it had been applied correctly.
NatWest agreed with the investigators opinion. Mr and Mrs S did not. They said theyd been 
given incorrect information by NatWest a number of times and had relied on this. So, they 
didnt feel it was fair that NatWest was not required to honour what had been said.
As Mr and Mrs S did not agree with our investigators opinion the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the mortgage offer from when Mr and Mrs S first took out their mortgage with 
NatWest in 2017. This contains a section about the flexible features of the mortgage, which 
refers to porting. The mortgage offer confirms that the mortgage must be ported to a new 
property that you are purchasing; you cannot port to a property you already own.
Ive also reviewed the mortgage offer when the new interest rate deal was agreed in October 
2018. This too contains a section on flexible features of the mortgage, which refers to 
porting. And it makes the same statement  that it cant be ported to a property that the 
mortgage holder already owns.
Im satisfied, based on this, that it has always been a condition of the mortgage Mr and 
Mrs S held with NatWest that it could not be ported to a property they already owned. 
Theyve confirmed that this is what they wanted to do. So, I dont think NatWest has done 
anything wrong by declining this request.
Ive listened to the call in January 2020 between Mrs S and NatWest. And Im satisfied she 
was given incorrect information about being able to port the mortgage in the way she and 
Mr S wanted to. But where a business has given incorrect information, we wouldnt expect it 
to make that incorrect information true  particularly if that is not something that the account 
holders were ever entitled to, which is the case here. Im also conscious that NatWest told 
them this was incorrect within a month, and significantly before the property was sold or the 
mortgage redeemed. 
Mr and Mrs S have said they were given the same incorrect information when they took the 
new fixed rate deal in 2018. There isnt a recording of the call that took place at that time 
available. But even if this incorrect information was repeated, again I dont think itd be 
reasonable to require NatWest to honour what was said in error when this wasnt something 
that Mr and Mrs S were ever entitled to. Particularly bearing in mind that both mortgages 
offers they signed, were in my view clear, that this is not something that was allowed.
I dont doubt that it was upsetting for Mr and Mrs S to find that theyd initially been provided 
incorrect information. But in the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that the £300 
already offered and paid by NatWest to address this is fair.
The mortgage offer Mr and Mrs S signed in October 2018 confirmed that, if it was repaid in 
full within the five-year fixed rate term, there would be an ERC payable. This charge was 
stepped, starting at 5% of the outstanding balance in the first year, reducing to 1% in the 
final year. At the time of the call Mrs S made to NatWest in January 2020 the ERC payable 
under the contract was 4% and would remain at this rate until January 2021, when it would 
reduce to 3%. Mr and Mrs S redeemed and paid off their mortgage in December 2020 and 
as a result NatWest charged an ERC of 4%. I think NatWest has acted in line with the terms 
of the mortgage when doing so.
Having listened to the call in January 2020, I acknowledge that Mrs S was also incorrectly 
told that the ERC would be 3% of the outstanding balance. But I do note a figure for the ERC 
was also quoted, which does seem to have equated to 4% of the balance. In any event, I 
again dont think it would be reasonable to require NatWest to charge less than was 
contractually due, because of this incorrect information. The amount Mr and Mrs S have 
been required to pay is correct. And again, Im conscious they were made aware of the 
correct level of charge before the sale of the property was completed.I dont doubt that finding out this information was also incorrect was upsetting to Mr and 
Mrs S. And I think NatWest should offer compensation for the additional upset caused by 
this. But, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs S, I agree with our 
investigator and I think an amount of £100 is a fair way to address this.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, if it has not 
already done so, National Westminster Bank Plc should pay Mr and Mrs S £100. This is in 
addition to the £300 it paid previously.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman