DRN-2252377
The complaint
Mrs B has complained through a claims management company (CMC) about the mis sale of 
a life and critical illness protection policy sold to her by a firm which is now the responsibility 
of Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K) Limited (Sun Life). She has said that due 
to her low income the policy was unsuitable for her from the outset.
What happened
Mrs B took out the policy in 1997. It was a reviewable unit linked whole of life and critical 
illness policy which provided £20,000 of protection for an initial monthly premium of around 
£33. As a reviewable policy there was always the chance the premiums would have to 
increase at some point in the future if Mrs B wanted to continue with the original sum 
assured. The policy lapsed in 2003 after its value was eroded due to premiums not being 
increased.
At the time of the sale the adviser completed a fact find for both Mrs B and her husband 
taking account of both their financial positions. It detailed that Mrs B was just over 50 years 
in age and had three children who were all over the age of 18. Both her and her husband 
were working and it also detailed her salary which looked to be modest. The fact find also 
recorded that she wanted to provide some protection for herself in case she became 
critically ill as well as protection for her family when she passed away.
When Sun Life investigated the complaint it felt the sale was suitable. The CMC then 
brought the complaint to this service where it was assessed by one of our investigators who 
was of the view it couldnt be upheld. She was satisfied that Mrs B wanted life and critical 
illness protection at the time and as there was no evidence that she only wanted this for a 
finite period of time a whole of life policy largely met her needs.
The CMC didnt agree with the assessment and commented that no one was dependant on 
Mrs B so the policy wasnt needed and also critical illness cover wasnt necessary for her.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator.
Firstly, its worth me clarifying that while the CMC feels as Mrs B had no dependants the 
policy wasnt needed, having dependants isnt something that is required for a whole of life 
policy. Often someone will take out a whole of life policy just because they want to leave a 
cash sum behind for their remaining family to use as they wish, rather than to pay off any 
outstanding debts that may be left behind. This was a common thing to do when Mrs B took 
out this policy so regardless of her children not being dependent upon her I see no reason 
why the policy wouldnt have been of use to her if her objective was to leave behind a cash 
sum, which it looks like it was.
Furthermore, critical illness protection is rarely ever considered to be unsuitable for anyone 
because of the nature of the protection. If claimed upon this will provide a cash lump sum 
that can be used by the policy holder to maintain a standard of living if they arent able to 
work or for anything similar. Anyone can hold a number of critical illness polices and all can 
be claimed upon providing the criteria of each is met so its usually prudent to have one in 
place.
Looking at the fact find, as mentioned above there are hand written notes which clearly state 
Mrs B was looking for life protection in the event of her death as well as critical illness 
protection. Its likely this record was completed by the adviser along with Mrs B present, so 
I think this was a true reflection of her needs at the time. Its also important to point out that 
there was a note made in this document that her husband wouldnt have had sufficient funds 
to maintain his standard of living if she had passed away. Therefore, as I have no reason to 
doubt any of these details, I am of the view that the whole of life policy met Mrs Bs needs at 
the time of the sale. And I cant see any other policy would have been suitable given she 
wanted protection for the whole of her life rather than for a specific term.
Turning now to the affordability of the policy, the CMC hasnt provided enough information to 
support its assertion that the policy was unaffordable from the outset. Mrs B was earning a 
regular salary and between her and her husband there were no outstanding liabilities. Also 
the fact find was completed with both Mrs B and her husbands details and it seems the total 
household income was taken into account when looking at the cost of the policy. As well as 
this, if the recorded statement about Mr B not being able to maintain his standard of living is 
true then it seems the family needed the protection to be in place too so this wouldnt be 
unusual. Also, while the reviewable policy was likely to be increasing in cost as the years 
went on there was an element of flexibility with the policy in that Mrs B could have kept the 
premiums at the same level for the entirety of the policy and just not increased the sum 
assured.
In summary therefore for the reason I have set out above I am satisfied that the whole of life 
policy sold to Mrs B largely met her stated needs and objectives at the time of the sale. And 
the CMC hasnt provided anything substantive that persuaded me otherwise.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman