DRN-3696981
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) made errors when she 
asked it to update her address. She asks that her address is corrected, that Virgin Money 
improves its processes and service and for compensation for the appalling service and 
disruption to her life.
What happened
Mrs C has three accounts with Virgin Money. In mid-2021 she asked it to update her 
address. Despite assurances this had been done, Mrs C received further correspondence 
with an incorrect address. 
Our investigator said Virgin Money had made errors, however Mrs C hadnt provided 
information to suggest shed been badly affected or caused financial loss. Virgin Money 
provided evidence that Mrs Cs address has now been corrected on all three accounts. Our 
investigator said the actions taken and compensation paid by Virgin Money were fair.
Mrs C didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C wanted Virgin Money to update her address to include the name of her village. Shes 
concerned that post from Virgin Money could go astray if the name of her village isnt 
included in the address. 
Mrs C wasnt able to follow any of the usual processes to update her address with Virgin 
Money. She doesnt use online or telephone banking. Its not practical for her to visit a 
branch as her local branch closed and the nearest branch is some distance away. In order to 
arrange for her address to be updated she had to make a complaint.
Mrs C said the most important aspect of her complaint is that her address is updated. Virgin 
Money has now confirmed that it has updated Mrs Cs address on all three accounts. 
However, it was over a year before her address was updated as shed requested. Virgin 
Money took too long to update Mrs Cs address and made errors while doing so. 
Mrs C asked that Virgin Money becomes a more caring and responsive institution, and 
improves its complaint handling. Shed have liked her complaint to be dealt with by one 
person throughout. She doesnt think Virgin Money should have paid £100 into her account 
when her complaint wasnt resolved. And she wrote a detailed letter to the complaints team 
and didnt receive a response. 
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, which means we cant necessarily look into it. I 
agree that the complaints team should have ensured that Mrs Cs address was updated  
which has now been done.
Virgin Money is entitled to make a commercial decision about its processes. I cant fairly 
require Virgin Money to change its processes, including its complaint handling processes. I 
should explain that we offer an informal dispute resolution service. We arent a regulator and 
dont have the powers of a regulator to order a bank to change the way it does business. 
What I can consider is whether Virgin Money treated Mrs C fairly, and if its done enough to 
put matters right. Mrs C emphasised during a call with our investigator that she isnt looking 
for large amounts of compensation. She just wants matters put right. Virgin Money has now 
updated Mrs Cs address. But given the time taken to do this, I think its right that Virgin 
Money pays compensation. 
Theres no evidence that post did go astray as a result of the delay in updating Mrs Cs 
address. But the difficulty in arranging for her address to be updated did cause Mrs C 
frustration and inconvenience. Mrs C made phone calls and wrote to Virgin Money. She says 
she had to visit a local town to arrange for her letters to be photocopied and to send post by 
recorded delivery. And as the matter wasnt sorted out by Virgin Money she brought the 
complaint to us. 
Having taken all this into account, I think £100 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
frustration and inconvenience caused by Virgin Moneys errors.
My final decision
My decision is that the steps taken by Clydesdale Bank Plc (trading as Virgin Money) and 
compensation paid are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman