DRN-4261925
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Lendable Ltd allowed a loan to be taken out in her name which 
she says was the result of ID theft.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In summer 2022, a loan of £12,000 was taken out with Lendable in Ms Ss name, alongside 
a loan with another company.
Ms S spoke to Lendable about it later that same day. She explained shed taken the loan out 
herself, along with a loan at another company. She confirmed shed received the funds, and 
paid the funds on herself, in order to invest in crypto. But the investment scheme had turned 
out to be a scam, and the scammers had taken the money.
In later correspondence, Ms S changed her testimony, and said the scammers had applied 
for both loans without her knowledge or consent.
Lendable held Ms S liable for the principal of the loan as they could see it had been applied 
for using her genuine details, shed opened their correspondence and verified her email and 
phone before agreeing to the loan, and shed previously confirmed she took it out. But they 
offered to write off the interest and fees in view of the fact she was scammed.
Ms S came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and thought it 
was fair that Lendable held Ms S liable for the principal of the loan but not the interest or 
fees. But they also proposed that Lendable remove it from Ms Ss credit file.
Neither side agreed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Ms S and Lendable a provisional decision on 6 July 2023, to explain why I thought 
Lendable had already made a fair offer to resolve things. In that decision, I said:
First of all, I understand that Ms S fell victim to a scam here, and so she has my sympathy. 
I appreciate that this cannot have been an easy time for her, and Im grateful to her for being 
open with our service about the effect the matter had.
I will also clarify that I have read and carefully considered everything that both sides have 
said and provided. But we are an informal alternative to the courts, and we dont look at 
things in quite as formal a way as the courts do. So I wont address the case on a point by 
point basis. Instead, I will focus on what I have found to be the key points.
Broadly speaking, Lendable can hold Ms S liable for the account if the evidence supports 
that she agreed to it. Both sides appear to accept that Ms S was the victim of a scam here. 
The question is essentially whether the scammers took out the loan without her knowledge  
as she now says  or whether Ms S took out the loan herself and then lost the money due to 
the scam. 
There is quite a bit of evidence substantiating that Ms S took out this loan. For example:
In her initial calls with both loan companies, Ms S confirmed repeatedly that she took 
out each loan herself, and forwarded the money on herself.
It was only later that Ms S presented the story that the scammers did this without her 
knowledge. And even then, her testimony was at points inconsistent or contradictory.
Ms S received an email from Lendable thanking her for requesting a loan, and stating 
that in order to process her loan request she needed to confirm her email address by 
clicking a link. She opened the email and clicked the link to verify her email address 
for the loan.
Ms S also received an email with her loan quotation, and subsequent emails 
confirming that the loan was on its way and a direct debit had been set up for the 
loan payments at her genuine bank account. Ms S opened these emails at the time, 
but did not report anything was wrong to Lendable until about six hours later  and 
even then, again: she confirmed she had applied for the loan herself.
Ms S was sent a PIN to her genuine phone number to verify her phone. The PIN was 
received, and given to Lendable in order to proceed with the loan application.
Both loans were applied for using Ms Ss genuine contact details, including her 
phone number and email address. It is not likely or plausible that a fraudster would 
put down Ms Ss own contact details if they were trying to apply for a loan without her 
knowledge or consent. All contact would go to Ms S and the fraud would be 
discovered and potentially stopped straight away. Generally, I would expect to see a 
fraudster create fake contact details of their own, which would be straightforward for 
them to do, especially in an already sophisticated scam such as this one.
As noted above, Ms S received and opened quite a bit of correspondence about the 
loans, but still let the loans go ahead and did not report them until after the fact.
The loan was applied for at residential IP addresses which matches the IP addresses 
Ms S used for genuine online banking activity, based in her homes location. While 
I do understand that the scammers asked Ms S to install a remote access app on her 
phone, the security checks found that this application was not made by someone 
using a remote or proxy connection.
Shortly after the loan application, and over four hours before telling Lendable about 
the scam, Ms S called Lendable, though she appears to have hung up before she got 
through to anyone. I dont see why shed call Lendable if she was unaware of their 
loan at the time, had no prior dealings with them, and had never heard of them 
before  as she later claimed. And if she had just become aware of the loan, but it 
had been applied for without her knowledge or consent, then its not very likely or 
plausible that shed wait a further four hours before trying to contact them again. This 
is only a more minor point, but worth noting.
Just after this loan was applied for  and before the second one was applied for  the 
scammer sent Ms S a fake text claiming her Lendable loan had been annulled. Its 
not likely or plausible that theyd do this if they were trying to hide the existence of the 
loan or claim they were not applying for a loan, as Ms S later said they were. But it 
does fit both with her original testimony  that Ms S applied for the loans herself, and 
with known methods of scams  e.g. where a scammer might convince someone to 
apply for a loan saying theyll later get the loan written off or cancelled.Finally, Ive not found any evidence which substantially shows that Ms S did not apply for 
this loan, or which makes me think its unlikely or implausible that she could have.
So based on what Ive seen so far, I find that the evidence and the balance of probabilities 
supports that this loan was taken out with Ms Ss knowledge and consent. That means 
Lendable can hold her liable for it. And Lendable were not responsible for the scam  the 
scammers were. In the circumstances this case, I think it would be unfair for me to hold 
Lendable liable for things, or to tell them to fully write off a loan which they lent out in good 
faith to the genuine applicant based on genuine information which passed all checks.
With that said, Ms S was the victim of a scam, and sent on the money to the scammers, so 
she didnt actually benefit from this loan. Her doctor has also provided evidence that she was 
in a vulnerable state at the time. And it seems unfair for Ms S to have to pay interest or fees 
for a loan which she was scammed into taking out and didnt benefit from. So Im grateful 
that Lendable have already agreed to write off the interest and fees  thats what I would 
have told them to do. Indeed, having listened to Ms Ss calls with Lendable, I think they 
handled things well here, especially on the initial call.
I should point out that even if I had found that the scammers applied for the loan, rather than 
Ms S, I would have still held Ms S liable for the principal of the loan in the circumstances of 
this case. The correspondence Ms S received at application made her sufficiently aware that 
these were loans in her name, and from what Ms S told us, she didnt have a reasonable 
basis to believe otherwise. According to Ms Ss later testimony, she gave the scammers full 
access to her phone and watched them use it. And I cant see that she did any reasonable 
due diligence to verify what she was being told. So she didnt take reasonable measures to 
mitigate her loss, and she ought reasonably to have known that these were loans in her 
name that would need to be paid back. As such, I would still not fairly be able to tell 
Lendable to write off the principal  only the interest and fees.
Ive also considered whether Lendable should remove the loan from Ms Ss credit file, as our 
investigator suggested. But Ms Ss credit file is supposed to be an accurate record of 
accounts she took out. And as I explained, Ive found that Ms S took out this account. So it 
should remain on her credit file.
Ms Ss representatives said that Ms S cant afford the contractual repayments. I would 
expect Lendable to work with her to come to a repayment arrangement that she can afford. 
I can see that Lendable have also given Ms S the details of independent charities who can 
give her free advice about dealing with her debts. I hope she finds them helpful.
Lastly, Ms Ss representatives pointed out that weve upheld other fraud cases. But we look 
at each case on its individual merits. Ive explained above why, in the circumstances of this 
particular case, Ive found that Lendables offer to write off the interest and fees is fair, and 
why they can hold Ms S liable for the principal of the loan. This is a difficult message for me 
to give, and I know its a difficult message for Ms S to receive. But given the evidence I have 
so far, and the balance of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
20 July 2023. Ill talk about the responses below.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lendable accepted the provisional decision and didnt have anything further to add.
Ms Ss representatives disagreed with the provisional decision. They insisted that Ms S had 
not taken out the loans. They said she had proactively reported the loans as fraudulent as 
soon as she became aware of them, and had been consistent in her testimony.
As I explored in the provisional decision, Ms Ss testimony was not consistent  she changed 
it quite drastically. She did not report the loans as fraudulent as soon as she became aware 
of them, but instead waited until after the fact. And even then, in Ms Ss initial reports she 
confirmed repeatedly that she took out each loan herself. The other key evidence also 
supports that she took out these loans herself.
The representatives argued that the loan companies didnt do enough due diligence, so they 
felt there wasnt enough evidence to say that Ms S took out these loans. As I set out in the 
provisional decision, the evidence includes Ms S validating her email and phone to proceed 
with her loan application, reading further emails clearly setting out the loans but not reporting 
them at the time, her own contact details being used to apply amongst other genuine details, 
residential IP addresses being used to apply which matched Ms Ss genuine IP addresses at 
her homes location and which were not remote or proxy connections, Ms Ss contact with 
the scammer indicating that she knew a loan was being taken in her name, and call 
recordings where Ms S repeatedly confirmed that she took out the loans herself. I find the 
evidence strongly supports that Ms S took out these loans. I do not think further due 
diligence was likely to have shown otherwise.
The representatives made arguments that Ms Ss bank shouldve found the activity on her 
bank account unusual and made further security checks. But this case is about Lendable, 
not Ms Ss bank. Ms S may be able to raise a separate complaint about her own bank if she 
feels that her bank didnt do enough.
Lastly, Ms Ss representatives pointed out that she was the victim of a scam, and hadnt 
benefitted from this loan. But I already accepted this  which is why I was glad to see that 
Lendable had agreed to write off the interest and fees. Its right that theyve acknowledged 
Ms Ss vulnerable situation and not tried to profit from the scam. However, as Ive found that 
Ms S took out this loan, and it wouldve been clear to her that this was a loan in her name 
which would need to be repaid, I cannot fairly tell Lendable to write off the principal.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusions as before, for the 
reasons set out above. I realise that this decision will come as a disappoint to Ms S, though 
it is not my intention to disappoint her. But given the evidence at hand and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.My final decision
I find that Lendable Ltd have already made a fair offer to resolve Ms Ss complaint. I do not 
make any further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman