DRN-2773477
The complaint
Miss S complains about the quality of a car she has been financing through an agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Miss S. The car here was about 
nine years old and had already completed about 83,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable 
person would expect quite a bit of in-service wear and tear.
The independent inspector is an expert in these matters. It was his opinion that the clutch 
was excessively worn and that this was due to in service wear and tear. Ive not seen 
sufficient information to suggest that view is wrong. I understand that Miss S disputes 
whether the car was driven but I can see the inspector identified that the gear change was 
stiff, and the bite point high and I think this could have been done without driving the car. I 
think its fair to say that the clutch is an item that wears over time and that it isnt unusual to 
replace one after around 88,000 miles.
Miss S has suggested the problem was there from the outset and I dont doubt that the 
clutch was reaching the end of its serviceable life when the car was supplied to her; although 
it was clearly working acceptably at that point as Miss S was able to drive a further 5,000 in 
the car before she complained of a noise coming from it. Moneybarn arent responsible for 
every fault with the car. Theyre not responsible for reasonable wear and tear and I think the 
evidence suggests the clutch has failed as a result of that. 
Miss S was also disappointed that her warranty didnt cover the fault. She thought the 
warranty only covered the vehicle up to 80,000 miles. The invoice for the car shows that a 
15-month warranty was included, and it seems this was financed as part of the finance 
agreement Miss S had with Moneybarn. Ive looked at a copy of that warranty and it says, 
this agreement applies to cars that are up to ten years old and have covered less than 
100,000 miles. Miss Ss car had covered less than 100,000 miles when it failed in 
November 2020 but at that point it was over ten years old. So, it didnt apply.
And even if it did, it appears the warranty only covered the car in the event of a sudden and 
unforeseen mechanical or electrical failure and, as Ive already explained, I dont think this 
failure was sudden or unforeseen.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman