DRN-3008968
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a hire agreement by Care by Volvo Car UK Limited 
(Care for Volvo) that incorporated a tyre replacement policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of that agreement said:
20. WHEELS AND TYRES 
Your subscription includes the replacement of tyres as necessary to maintain 
roadworthiness against normal wear and tear (excessive wear and tear of tyres caused by 
irresponsible driving is not covered). 
Mr S says that this should include instances when tyres are damaged through punctures, but 
I disagree.
Its clear that tyres will be replaced free of charge when they have worn excessively and 
normally. But I dont think theres a promise to replace tyres that are subject to accidental 
damage as is the case where there is a puncture. 
The business website clarifies the position further and says, During your cars scheduled 
maintenance, well change or repair any parts, including tyres, worn through normal use. I 
dont think there is a claim that tyres will be replaced when there is accidental damage.
I therefore dont think there is evidence that the agreement was misrepresented to Mr S and 
Im not asking Care for Volvo to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman