DRN-1596493
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited, trading as Hastings Direct, 
(Hastings) unfairly declined a claim for the theft of his sons car and he wants his claim to be 
paid.
While this complaint mainly relates to Mr Ms son (also Mr M), for ease, Ill only refer to a 
singular Mr M throughout this decision. But that reference will include all submissions made 
from both Mr M and his son.
What happened
Mr M held a motor insurance policy with Hastings. In 2018 Mr M advertised his car for sale, 
and his son, who is the registered keeper of the car, was visited by an individual who 
claimed to be an interested buyer. Ill call this individual X.
After inspecting the vehicle, X asked to take Mr Ms car for a test drive. And Mr M said that X 
told him that he had a driving licence and was insured to drive the car, so he agreed to a test 
drive, and sat in the passenger seat while this took place.
Mr M explained that part way through the test drive, X said he liked how the car drove, and 
asked if they could they pull over to take another look at the outside of the car. Mr M agreed. 
Mr M said the engine was left running and the keys were in the front of vehicle while he and 
X walked around the car. Mr M also noted that the vehicle operated on a keyless start. He 
said he began discussing the sale with X, including whether he would agree to a price 
reduction due to tyre wear and tear. And it was during this discussion, while standing at the 
rear of the car, that X suddenly ran and jumped in the vehicle and drove off.  Mr M said he 
tried to give chase but was unable to catch him. He subsequently raised the matter with the 
police and made a claim under his insurance policy. 
Hastings declined Mr Ms claim as they said the policy excludes loss as a result of: 
"Theft of or damage, if the Car Keys were left in or on the Car or if the Car is left unattended 
with the engine running; and 
loss or damage if someone claiming to be a buyer or agent takes possession of your Car 
deceitfully. 
Unhappy with Hastings response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator initially said that Mr Ms case should be upheld. But having reconsidered all 
the evidence, he then thought Hastings was not wrong to have declined it, because the 
circumstances in which the theft took place were specifically excluded. 
Mr M, unhappy with the investigators findings, has pointed to specific case law both in his 
initial submissions, and in response to the investigators opinion, which he thinks supports 
that his claim should be paid. So as no agreements been reached, the case has come to me, as an ombudsman, to 
decide.
I think its important to say at the outset, my role is to reach a fair and reasonable outcome in 
the specific circumstances of Mr Ms case, and that while I will of course take the law into 
account when considering cases, Im not bound by it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr M is concerned that the investigator changed his mind during the course of his 
investigation. But Id like to assure him, that as an ombudsman, I carry out a fresh and 
independent review of the evidence. Id also like to point out that while a number of matters 
and points have been raised on both sides, I will focus on what I think are the main issues. 
But Ive given careful consideration to all submissions before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here, so I wont be 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
When considering cases of this nature I need to look at the circumstances of what 
happened, what the policy is designed to cover and what it specifically excludes. 
Mr Ms policy includes cover for loss of his vehicle as a result of theft or attempted theft. But 
it also has some specific exclusions. 
The first exclusion mentioned by Hastings is that a policyholder is not covered for theft or 
damage, if the Car Keys were left in or on the Car or if the Car is left unattended with the 
engine running.
Our position regarding cases where the engine has been left running or where keys have 
been left in a car has been established over a long period of time. When considering matters 
like these, as well as looking into whether physical keys were left in the vehicle, we also 
need to consider whether the insured remained in a position to deter the thief or make a theft 
unlikely to take place.
Hastings has argued that Mr M was clearly not in a position to deter the thief, as the vehicle 
was still stolen. But I disagree. The test here is whether Mr M was in a position to deter the 
thief or make a theft unlikely. I dont agree that the fact the vehicle was stolen is enough to 
prove that Mr M was not in a position to deter the thief. This just demonstrates that Mr M was 
not successful in doing so.
Mr M explained that at the time of the theft, he was standing at the rear of the vehicle with X 
and that, as X ran and jumped into the car, he gave chase but was unable to prevent the 
theft. I havent seen anything from Hastings to cause me to doubt Mr Ms testimony. So, 
based on this, I dont think its fair for Hastings to decline Mr Ms case under this exclusion. 
This is because I think Mr M remained in a position to be able to deter the thief or make the 
theft unlikely.
The second exclusion under which Hastings say Mr Ms claim is not covered, states you are 
not covered for Loss or damage if someone claiming to be a buyer or agent takes 
possession of your Car. Its not in dispute that this is what happened - an individual, 
claiming to be a buyer, took possession of Mr Ms vehicle. So, I need to decide whether its 
fair for Hastings to apply this exclusion in the specific circumstances of Mr Ms case. When X turned up to look at Mr Ms vehicle, he claimed to be able to legally drive the vehicle 
under his insurance, and said he had a valid licence. And Mr M has explained that he 
accepted this and didnt check these documents before allowing him to drive.
While I accept that purely seeing the above documents may have not prevented the theft, its 
also unclear whether these documents existed. So, in asking for them, Mr M would have 
added an additional layer of security that may have deterred the thief, and potentially made 
the theft less likely. If X needed to provide these documents before Mr M allowed a test 
drive, he would have had to either provide false paperwork, or risk sharing personal details 
with Mr M which could have made him more likely to be caught. 
Ive explained above why I think standing at the back of the car with the engine running and 
keys inside, isnt enough in itself for Mr M to have his claim declined. But at the point Mr Ms 
car was stolen, very little had been done to verify Xs identity. And I think had more been 
done, the chances of his car being stolen wouldve likely reduced. So, for this reason, I think 
its reasonable for Hastings to have declined Mr Ms claim in these particular circumstances 
 as his loss was as a result of an individual claiming to be buyer taking possession of his 
vehicle, which is specifically excluded.
Mr M also says that he never received a copy of his policy. But Hastings says the policy was 
sent to Mr M, and I cant see that he contacted them to say he hadnt received it. So I think 
its more likely he received the policy document from Hastings. I think its important to say 
that this isnt an unusual or onerous term for an insurance policy of this nature, and therefore 
isnt one that needed to be specifically brought to his attention. So even if I were to accept 
Mr M never received the policy, I dont think the events surrounding the theft were 
reasonably foreseeable enough to conclude that, had Mr M read the policy, he wouldve 
acted differently. 
I appreciate Mr M has taken his time in setting out why he thinks Hastings were wrong to 
have declined his claim, and why he thinks his claim should have been paid. But, for the 
reasons set out above, I dont think Hastings were wrong in declining his claim and, 
therefore, I wont be instructing them to do anything differently.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman