DRN-3942335
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with Unum Limiteds decision to decline her claim. 
What happened
Miss B has income protection with Unum through her employer. Miss B has a complex 
medical history, which Ive decided not to fully document as part of my final decision as both 
parties are already fully aware of this. Instead, Ill be referring only to those conditions, or 
symptoms, that I feel are most relevant to this case. Thats to say since Miss B received her 
second COVID-19 vaccination in July 2021, she said shes experienced an exacerbation of 
her previous symptoms, including some additional symptoms shed previously not 
experienced. 
Miss B said shes unable to work because she suffers with arthralgia which gives her 
swollen, painful and stiff joints. Miss B also said shes unable to sit for sustained periods, no 
longer than 20 minutes, and an MRI scan revealed she has a bulging disc in her back in the 
L5/S1 area. Shes also complained of other related symptoms. Miss B attempted a phased 
return to work whereby she worked from home, but she was unable to progress owing to the 
aforementioned symptoms. Miss B said she cannot work and cited a letter from her GP in 
February 2022 which supports her claim for incapacity. 
Unum said it declined Miss Bs claim because theres no clear medical basis for the reported 
medical problems, or any on-going impairment of her function. And so, she didnt satisfy the 
policy terms to demonstrate shes incapacitated. Unum said Miss Bs symptoms are largely 
self-reported, but theres not enough persuasive clinical evidence to support she was 
incapacitated throughout the deferred period (June  December 2021). It highlighted 
occupational health reports and specialists reports which conclude Miss B can work with 
adjustments, like home working and adaptive software and hardware. 
Our investigator said Unum had declined Miss Bs claim fairly because it relied on the 
available medical evidence and was able to show itd considered this fairly. He 
acknowledged Miss Bs GP report and that Unum found this less persuasive compared to 
the specialist consultants account of Miss Bs problems. 
Miss B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. In summary, she 
said her symptoms are present and are preventing her from working. She explained this 
coincided with receiving her second COVID-19 vaccination and that there are perhaps other 
reasons for her symptoms which she believes could be related to her connective tissue 
disorder and potentially fibromyalgia. And so, its now for me to make a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also decided not to uphold it and for mainly the same reasons explained by our 
investigator. Its not for this service to determine whether Miss B is well enough to work, 
rather its to decide whether Unum has declined her claim for incapacity fairly. I think it has 
because its relied on medical evidence to do so, and where there were conflicting medical 
views about her health and readiness for work, Unums explained why its more persuaded 
by the specialist consultants view on Miss Bs ability to return to work. I think Unum has 
applied a fair level of weight to his report because he is a specialist in the relevant area of 
concern for Miss B. And so, Unum doesnt need to take any further action here, Ill explain 
why. 
It's not in dispute that Miss B has symptoms of several of her reported medical conditions. 
Shes described suffering with aches and pains, fatigue and stiffness in her limbs. But the 
key test here is whether her symptoms satisfy Unums definition of incapacity. To be clear, 
the policy terms say;
For benefit to be paid, the member must be unable to work because of illness or injury. We 
call this the definition of incapacity.
Incapacity is defined based on the level of cover which has been chosen. In this case, the 
policy Miss B is covered by provides insured occupation cover, which defines incapacity as:
A member is incapacitated if we are satisfied that they are:
Unable, by reason of illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of the 
insured occupation, and are not performing any occupation
The policy defines insured occupation as:
Insured occupation means the trade, profession or general role that the member was 
actively undertaking for you immediately prior to incapacity.
The policy also defines whats meant by material and substantial duties:
material and substantial duties means the duties that are normally required for the 
performance of the members insured occupation and which cannot be reasonably omitted 
or modified. It is those duties required for the performance of the occupation at their, or any 
other employer. 
Whilst theres a wealth of medical evidence provided on this case, Im satisfied theres no 
persuasive medical evidence to support Miss B is suffering from a medical condition that 
would prohibit her from returning to work. I say that because the specialist opinions are 
consistent in that theres no medical reason to explain the symptoms shes suffering. I say 
that because the rheumatology specialist said in July 2021;
On examining her joints today she had some tenderness in some of the joints of her hands 
and wrists and her left knee, but there was absolutely no swelling or synovitis in any of her 
joints. Her joints were definitely not hot or swollen It is difficult to exactly ascertain the 
reason for her symptoms. It possibly could be related to an immune reaction to her vaccine, 
however, the symptoms have been non-specific and her bloods and examination is normal. 
If this is the cause, then it should continue to improve in the coming few weeks.
There is no clinical or biochemical evidence here to support thrombosis post vaccine which 
is one of the side effects that can rarely be seen with the AstraZeneca vaccine. Her normal 
bloods and inflammatory markers also make a flare of her connective tissue disease very 
unlikely. I think the more likely cause is that she has a lot of social stressors at home and 
work, had a poor sleep pattern and is perimenopausal. Most likely a combination of these is 
causing her symptomsI understand why Unum find this persuasive because the relevant specialist, after assessing 
Miss B, was unable to diagnose her symptoms. And therefore, this doesnt satisfy the policy 
terms because theres no medical condition preventing her from working. This continued to 
be the theme throughout the deferred period. Miss Bs self-reported symptoms appeared to 
have no justifiable cause medically and so Im satisfied that she didnt meet the criteria set 
out by the policy. 
I think its also important to recognise the specialist ruled out a flare up of Miss Bs 
connective tissue disease as she was concerned this was the cause of her symptoms. Its 
also worth highlighting that he thought poor sleep hygiene, alongside other social stressors 
at home and with work could be the underlying cause of some of these issues. I should say 
that stress isnt considered an illness (as defined by the NHS) rather an acute reaction to life 
events. And so, this wouldnt be covered by the policy. In addition I note the occupational 
health reports in October 2021 and April 2022 were consistent that Miss B could return to 
work with adjustments that had been agreed with her employer. 
By September 2021 her blood tests were largely unremarkable, apart from a vitamin D 
deficiency, and it was reported by the rheumatologist that her symptoms had improved. Miss 
B was declared fit for work and she attempted a phased return. Despite complaining of joint 
pain in her hands and other Musculo-skeletal issues, the majority of medical professionals 
involved with her care determined she was fit for work. There were recommendations made 
for workstation adaptations and this was implemented by Miss Bs employer. And so, Im 
satisfied with Unums assessment of her claim because I can see its relied on the medical 
evidence which largely suggested Miss B wasnt incapacitated as defined by its policy terms. 
I note Miss Bs GP wrote in February 2022 to say he didnt think Miss B was well enough to 
work owing to other pain-related symptoms. I thought I should highlight this because it 
supported Miss Bs claim that she was too unwell to work. Im satisfied Unum considered this 
report but was not persuaded by it. Im in agreement with our investigator on this point 
because there were subsequent reports that followed by the rheumatology specialist that 
countered that argument and persuasively explained theres no medical explanation for Miss 
Bs reported symptoms. I think Unum was entitled to rely on that evidence and I can see why 
it was more persuaded by that report rather than the GPs. 
Ive also considered Miss Bs comments about her lower back pain and it being attributable 
to her bulging L5/S1 disc. And whilst I dont doubt this causes discomfort, theres no 
persuasive medical evidence to suggest this would prevent her working with the adjustments 
already agreed with her employer. Unum considered that regular breaks, an adaptive chair 
and the ability to work from home  negating a lengthy commute to work that could 
potentially aggravate her symptoms  are reasonable adjustments in the circumstances. Ive 
thought about its position here and I think its a reasonable conclusion to draw from the 
medical evidence available. I should perhaps also say that any difficulty Miss B experiences 
with her commute wouldnt be considered under the policy terms. 
The rheumatologist is the specialist in this instance and so I think its reasonable that his 
evidence carries more weight in the particular circumstances of this complaint. Its for these 
reasons Im satisfied Unum declined Miss Bs claim fairly because its done so in conjunction 
with the more persuasive medical evidence available. Therefore, Unum doesnt need to take 
any further action here as theres no persuasive medical evidence to show Miss B was 
incapacitated for the whole of the deferred period.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman