DRN-3025344
The complaint
Mr H (represented by his solicitor, Mr L) says Admiral Insurance Company Limited wrongly 
declined the claim he made on his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen.  
What happened
Mr H bought a car that was on sale for £15,000 from a private seller for £12,800. Two weeks
later the car was stolen. Admiral rejected the claim after it found the car Mr H had bought
wasnt the one with that registration and vehicle identification number (VIN). The genuine
car was on sale with a garage, so it said the car Mr H had insured was a cloned vehicle.
Admiral said Mr H was deceived by a fraudulent seller, so a policy exclusion about claims
not being covered if possession of a car was gained by deception applied. It noted that Mr H
got a copy of the cars V5C registration document from the seller, that hed taken a mechanic
with him to inspect the car, and that hed had a check carried out into the cars history (an
HPI check) which brought up no concerns. But Admiral also said Mr H had told it that the
VIN number on the V5 document didnt match the one on the cars windscreen.
Mr L told Admiral that Mr H hadnt said there was a mismatch between the VIN number on
the V5 and the windscreen. He said Mr Hs first language wasnt English, and that when he
said the VIN numbers were similar, he didnt realise the word didnt mean identical. Mr L
also said the policy exclusion didnt apply, as the car wasnt stolen by deception. Admiral
then said Mr H hadnt checked the VIN number on the engine. Mr L said that amounted to
placing an unfair burden on a consumer who wasnt a car dealer.
In its final response letter, Admiral said the letter declining the claim should have been
worded differently. It said the mechanic had advised Mr H to check the VIN on the engine,
but Mr H hadnt done so. It also said Mr H didnt send the V5 document to the DVLA or tax
the car and was unable to substantiate its purchase. It said a cloned car has no market
value, and that Mr H should pursue the cars seller.
Mr L said the mechanic didnt tell Mr H to check the VIN on the engine. He accepted that the
car was bought at a good price, but said that the seller had given Mr H reasons for wanting a
quick cash sale (and had reduced the price accordingly). He said it was for the seller to send
the V5 to the DVLA. He asked Admiral to clarify its assertion that Mr H hadnt substantiated
the purchase. He also said as the seller was unknown to Mr H he couldnt be pursued. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Hs complaint. She said the policy doesnt cover theft
where possession is gained by deception. She also considered whether Mr H reasonably
believed he was buying a genuine car. She noted that he said he had some concerns about
the cars history and thought it may have been in an accident, so he carried out checks
before buying it. She noted that the HPI check showed the cars value at £21,000. She
thought Admiral had carried out a thorough investigation of the claim and said it was unclear
whether Mr H had carried out all reasonable checks, as there were inconsistencies in the
statements on the file. So she thought Admiral had acted reasonably.
Mr L repeated that the policy exclusion didnt apply and said Mr H had taken reasonable
steps to ensure the cars authenticity. He said cars similar to the one hed bought were on
sale for as little as £12,495. The investigator said it would have been reasonable for Mr H to
have checked the VIN on the engine. She said Mr H had told Admiral shortly after the theft 
that the mechanic had advised him to do that. Finally, the investigator said she thought the 
policy exclusion was clear, so in her opinion it was fair for Admiral to rely on it.
Mr L said Admiral initially didnt raise the issue of Mr H having ignored the mechanics
alleged instruction to him  and had in fact said in its final response letter that Mr H told it he
didnt check the VIN on the engine. He also pointed out that Mr H hadnt made a statement
in the true sense, by having a chance to read what Admiral had recorded and agree the
content. Mr L also provided a signed statement from the mechanic, who confirmed that he
had not advised Mr H to check the VIN on the engine. As the investigators view didnt
change, Mr L asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman, and it was later passed
to me. I issued a provisional decision, upholding Mr Hs complaint, as follows:
Policy exclusion
Ive looked at the policy exclusion, which says Admiral will not pay for loss or damage to
your car or loss of money, where possession of it is gained by deception. Similar
exclusions are common in car insurance policies. Theyre generally relied on when a policy
holders car is stolen in the type of theft where some kind of deception is used by the thief. I
dont think the exclusion covers the situation where a consumer is tricked into buying a car
by someone who provides false evidence to show the car is genuine and that he owns it.
VIN checks
I think Mr H showed he was serious about ensuring the car was genuine partly by checking
that the VIN number on the V5 registration document matched the one on the cars
windscreen. I think the initial conversation between Mr H and Admiral about this shows that
there was some difficulty between them in communicating, probably because English isnt
Mr Hs first language. I think its clear that when he insisted the numbers on the V5 and the
windscreen were similar he meant the same (rather than different). And there would have
been no reason for Mr H to proceed with the purchase if the VIN numbers hadnt matched.
I dont think its standard practice for an average consumer to check the VIN number on a
cars engine  or even to know that it will be on there. So I think that in suggesting that Mr H
should have done so (but didnt) Admiral is holding him to a higher standard than would be
the case with an average consumer. It seems to have taken this approach because it
believes that the mechanic who inspected the car for Mr H advised him to check the VIN on
the engine, yet he failed to do so.
The file notes written by Admirals advisor on 19 August 2019 show Mr H told him the
engineer recommended checking the engine. The notes also state that Mr H said he carried
out the engine check and found that the VIN numbers matched. Yet in Mr Hs call with
Admiral ten days later, he said he didnt think about checking the VIN in the engine. 
Theres a clear discrepancy between the account recorded by the advisor and the call with
Mr H ten days later. We usually say that if two versions of events dont match, then the first
one should be taken as more likely to be accurate as its nearer to the date of the event. But
in this case, we also have a signed statement from the mechanic, who says he didnt advise
Mr H to inspect the engine for the VIN. The mechanic says hes never checked a VIN in an
engine, even when buying cars himself. Theres also the question of why any mechanic
would advise a consumer to check something in an engine that had just been inspected.
In my opinion, its possible that Mr H was confused during the conversation with Admiral on
19 March 2019 and said something that wasnt accurate - or that the advisor misunderstood
what he said or recorded it incorrectly. I think its more likely than not that Mr H wasntadvised to check the VIN on the engine. But in any event, I think he did enough by ensuring
that the VIN on the windscreen matched the one on the V5 document.
Other checks
Motoring organisations and others recommend that purchasers should carry out various
checks when buying a vehicle from a private seller. One of them is ensuring that the V5
registration document is checked. Mr H did that, and the V5 showed the correct name and
address for the seller as well as other details (including the cars VIN). Mr H says the seller
produced his driving licence showing his name, address and a photo of the seller. The
mechanic confirmed that was the case in his statement. He also confirmed that he and Mr H
met the seller outside the sellers address.
The other check purchasers are recommended to carry out is an HPI check of the vehicle,
which will show any finance owed on the car, whether it has been stolen or is a total loss, or
whether there are discrepancies in terms of mileage or registration numbers. In this case the
HPI check was clear - but it showed the car was valued at £21,000.
Admiral thinks that was a cause for concern, although an HPI check isnt a valuation tool.
The car was advertised by the seller at £15,000, and Mr H had checked online about the
market value of similar cars. Although the asking price was within the range of prices Mr H
found online, as it was towards the lower end of it, he thought that might mean the car had
been in an accident. Thats partly why he took a mechanic with him to inspect it.
The seller told Mr H he wanted a quick sale and that hed drop the price to £12,800 if Mr H
could pay him in cash. Hed already told Mr H in text messages that other buyers were
interested, so I think there was some pressure on Mr H to make a quick decision. The
mechanic had no concerns, and all the paperwork seemed to be in order. So I dont think it
was unreasonable for Mr H to think hed been lucky enough to get a bargain. Perhaps he
could have taken time to consider whether the deal was too good to be true, but I can see
why that didnt strike him at the time. I think many consumers would have acted as he did.
Proof of purchase
As Mr H agreed to a quick sale for cash, he had to get hold of the money quickly. He says he
had £6,000 saved at home in cash. Although that may not be where most consumers would
keep their savings, it isnt unheard of. Nor is the fact that Mr H borrowed cash from a friend,
who confirmed to Admiral that he gave a loan to Mr H in cash.
I can see why Admiral found these circumstances suspicious, as the arrangement Mr H and
his friend made is unusual and cant be verified. But theres nothing to show that Mr H didnt
pay for the car in the way he claims to have done - or that his receipt, plus the other
documents hes provided (including copies of texts from the seller) arent genuine. And
Admiral didnt decline the claim on the basis that Mr H didnt actually buy the car.
In summary
We think if a consumer makes reasonable checks before buying a car and then insures it in
good faith, having no reason to suspect its false identity, the claim on the policy should be
paid. I dont think the policy exclusion applies in the circumstances here, and I think Mr H
carried out reasonable checks on the car. I think he considered why its price was lower than
might have been expected. He may have been nave in thinking he had such a bargain, but
taking everything into account, I dont think he acted unreasonably at the time.
I understand why Admiral had concerns about the claim, but I dont think the discrepancies itidentified were sufficient for it to fairly and reasonably decline the claim. Consequently,
subject to any further comments from the parties, I think Admiral should deal with the claim
(in line with all other policy terms and conditions) and refund to Mr H the sum he paid for the
car, plus interest. As Mr H was distressed and inconvenienced by the decline of the claim, I
also think it would be reasonable for Admiral to pay him £200 compensation.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. Mr L said Mr H accepted them
but had some extra points to make. He said Mr Hs personal items were stolen when the car
was taken, and hed like the policys £150 cover for these to be paid. He said Mr H would
also like his legal expenses to be covered, as it wouldnt have been possible for Mr H to put
his case forward without help from a solicitor. Mr L said Mr H had suffered ill-health over the
last two years due to Admirals handling of his claim. So he thought the £200 Id proposed
for distress and inconvenience should be raised significantly (to £5,000 as a minimum).
Admiral said it hadnt insured the car Mr H claimed to have bought. It said he told it he got
the V5 from the seller and sent it to the DVLA, but he didnt tax the car. Admiral didnt accept
that hed proved ownership of it and said hed paid £10,000 less than it was worth. It said
there were discrepancies between him and Mr K in terms of their meeting around the date of
the theft. And it repeated its concern about Mr H not having checked the VIN in the engine.
I issued a second provisional decision, as follows:
Admirals comments
I set out my view on Mr H not checking the engine VIN in my provisional decision. I also set
out our settled view on it being fair and reasonable for a claim to be paid if a consumer has
made reasonable checks before buying a cloned car in good faith. Admiral hasnt said
anything new on these issues. There are discrepancies in the accounts of Mr H and Mr K
about their meeting, but in my opinion, the main point in Mr Ks evidence is that he confirmed
giving Mr H a loan of £6,000 in cash.
Mr K has a receipt for the cars purchase, but I agree that he paid less than could have been
expected for it. Mr H was interested in the car in the first place due to its low price. But he
made the HPI check and engaged a mechanic for advice, so any concerns he had about that
could be dealt with, and they were. I think the seller gave him plausible reasons why he
wanted a quick cash sale. Sometimes, theres a genuine bargain to be had. The documents
all seemed to be in order, and the seller seemed genuine, so I dont think its fair to say that
the price of the car alone should have led Mr K to conclude that he was being deceived.
It was for the seller to send the V5 document to the DVLA. I havent seen anything in the file
that shows Mr H said the seller had given it to him and that hed sent it. There are notes to
show that he said he didnt have the V5, plus a note that says Mr H provided a copy of the
V5 to Admiral. Whether Mr H got the V5 or not, theres evidence that he was able to check
all the relevant details on it before he agreed to buy the car. The mechanic said the seller
produced his photo driving licence as well. Although I think Mr H should have tried to tax the
car before it was stolen, I dont think omitting to do so within two weeks of the purchase is a
basis for declining the claim.
Mr Ls comments
Admiral confirmed recently that Mr H made a claim for the personal items that were stolen
with the car. It says it will cover the claim up to the policy limit, subject to proof. So if I were
to issue a final decision in due course upholding Mr Hs complaint, hed need to provide
evidence of the lost items to Admiral for it to consider that part of his claim.Theres no doubt that Mr L has provided valuable advice and assistance to Mr H, but it was
Mr Hs choice to seek paid advice. I dont think it was necessary for him to do that. In my
opinion, a lay person fluent in English could have helped him with any language difficulties -
and there are organisations that offer free legal advice and casework support to consumers
in Mr Hs position. We provide free translation services. We also try to identify gaps in the
evidence, in order to seek any further relevant details from either party as necessary. Taking
all this into account, I dont think Admiral should be required to pay Mr Hs legal costs.
Mr H told Admiral during the claims process that he had a medical condition, and that if his
claim wasnt upheld, he could end up in hospital as a result. Mr L told us that Mr H suffered
chest pains and anxiety after the theft and had to attend hospital, and that the medication for
his pre-existing condition increased dramatically. Its not unusual for some consumers to feel
great anxiety after an incident such as a theft  or whilst going through a claims process.
But to some extent, thats unavoidable  and it isnt the fault of the insurer.
I think Admiral had the right to carry out full enquiries into the claim. In my opinion, it was a
hard one to resolve. I think the file notes show that it wasnt straightforward for Admiral to
reach a conclusion about it. The police thought Mr Hs claim was genuine, as did Admiral for
much of the time. So I think the process was bound to take longer than usual to complete.
I dont think Admiral can be held responsible for any stress Mr H had to face as a result of
the theft or its enquiries into the claim. Mr L says Mr H was embarrassed when he had to
repay Mr K by borrowing from a family member during this time. I understand that he may
have found that difficult, and that being left out of pocket following the claims decline has
caused him ongoing financial worry.
Mr H recently provided evidence from his GP to show that he had no record of anxiety or any
other symptom of stress until after the theft in 2019. The GP says Mr Hs medication for that
is continuing, as the symptoms of his illness remain. Although I think Admiral should have
paid the claim, in my opinion, its only partly responsible for Mr Hs anxiety and the effects it
has had on him. I dont agree with the large increase in compensation that Mr L has
proposed, but I think raising it to £500 would be reasonable.
Admirals solicitors commented on my second provisional decision. They supported 
Admirals stated view that as the car was cloned, legally it had no market value. The 
solicitors thought the correct remedy was for Admiral to return the premium to Mr H. 
Mr L said Admiral should pay Mr H £150 for the cars contents without evidence from him. 
He said Mr H had been unable to get full legal support or sufficient advice free and provided 
evidence that hed tried to do so. Mr L accepted that we dont award damages in the way a 
court does. But he said the rules that govern this service allow an ombudsman to award a 
sum thats fair, which may be more generous than a court would award. And as Mr H had 
paid £75 for the GP notes he provided, Mr L thought that sum should be refunded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the cloned car had no legal status and therefore no market value, but our remit 
is to decide whats fair and reasonable, to prevent what would otherwise be unfair outcomes.  
Ive already explained fully above why I think the claim should be paid  and I proposed that 
Admiral should refund Mr H what he paid for the car as its market value doesnt apply here. I think its reasonable for Admiral to ask Mr H for evidence of the items that were lost when 
the car was stolen. Mr L says Mr H may have the necessary proof. If he doesnt, I think its 
for Admiral to decide whether it will pay all or part of the £150 set out in the policy anyway.
Im still of the view that Admiral shouldnt have to pay Mr Hs legal fees. We dont need a 
consumer to provide submissions to us of the quality expected from a legally qualified 
practitioner. And I still dont think Admirals responsible for all the stress and anxiety suffered 
by Mr H. I think the sellers deception, the loss of the car plus the money paid for it - and  the 
need to go through the claims process, would have caused Mr H great anxiety. Mr H was left 
with a debt that he couldnt repay without borrowing more money, which caused him further 
stress. The GP notes show that later on, Mr H also lost his job, causing him further worry, 
but theres nothing to show that it was related to the declined claim. 
I think Admiral had the right to investigate the claim robustly, and challenge any 
discrepancies, even though that will have caused Mr H even more worry and stress. But I 
think some aspects of the way it dealt with the claim (as set out above) are likely to have 
caused Mr H avoidable frustration and anxiety. In my opinion, £500 is a fair and reasonable 
sum to reflect the distress and inconvenience Mr H faced as a result of Admirals actions. As 
the GP report was helpful in my consideration of whether the initial £200 Id proposed was 
sufficient - and whether Mr Ls proposal for a much higher sum than £500 was appropriate - I 
think it would also be fair and reasonable for Admiral to refund the cost of it to Mr H. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to do the following:
Refund the sum Mr H paid for the car, subject to the policys remaining terms and 
conditions, and add interest to that sum, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the 
date of claim to the date of settlement
Pay Mr H £500 for distress and inconvenience
Pay Mr H £150 for the loss of his personal items, subject to evidence
Refund  Mr H £75 for the GP report he provided
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman