DRN-3628615
The complaint
Mr W says Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited (trading as Swinton) didnt give him due 
notice of his motor insurance policy being cancelled, leading to severe consequences.
What happened
Mr Ws policy started on 15 November 2021. On 9 December 2021 the police impounded his 
car on the basis that he wasnt insured to drive it. Mr W now faces a court hearing with the 
likelihood of a large fine and six penalty points, so he wants a letter of indemnity. 
Atlanta told Mr W that it wrote to him in November 2021 to say his insurer needed further 
details to verify the policy. Mr W said the letter was sent to the wrong address. As there was 
no reply from him, Atlanta sent a seven-day notice of cancellation letter to the same address 
on 29 November 2021. It then emailed Mr W to say the policy was cancelled on 7 December 
2021. Atlanta said the letters were sent to the address Mr W had provided  as set out in the 
documents it sent to him when the policy began. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ws complaint. He thought as Mr W had said email 
was his preferred method of contact, Atlanta should have emailed the notice of cancellation 
to him. As it didnt, he thought it should remove the £50 cancellation charge, amend the 
record of Mr Ws cancellation, and pay him £100 compensation. The investigator didnt think 
a letter of indemnity should be provided, as Atlanta could show it had emailed Mr W to let 
him know the policy was cancelled two days before he was stopped by the police. It could 
also show that the email was opened about half an hour after it was sent.
 
Atlanta didnt comment on the investigators view. Mr W said if he saw Atlantas email, he 
must have thought it was spam. He said he checked the Motor Insurers Database (the 
MID) the day after the email was issued, and it showed he was insured.  As there was no 
agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Atlanta can show that it notified Mr W by email that he was no longer insured two days 
before he was stopped for driving without insurance. As Atlanta tracks its emails, it can show 
that he opened the cancellation confirmation message almost as soon as it arrived in his 
mailbox. So I dont think Atlanta can be blamed for what happened after that.
 
I dont think its reasonable for Mr W to say that if he saw the email, hed just have assumed 
it was spam. As a cancellation is such a serious issue, I think most consumers would have 
been alarmed by the content of the email and would have contacted Atlanta straight away. I 
havent seen any evidence that the MID record showed Mr Ws car was insured the day after 
Atlanta told him it wasnt. But the MID record isnt fool proof evidence of current insurance 
anyway, and I think Mr W should have contacted Atlanta to make sure he knew the facts. 
Atlanta has shown that the reason its letters didnt reach Mr W is because he gave it the 
incorrect postal address. That incorrect address was set out prominently in the policys 
Statement of Fact.  Consumers have a duty to check their documents and to tell their broker 
or insurer if theres an error. So I think a contributory cause of the cancellation was that Mr 
W didnt contact Atlanta to have the address it held for him corrected. 
Regardless of Mr Ws error, he told Atlanta his preference was to be contacted by email or 
telephone. Atlanta says it always sends queries about documents needed to validate the 
policy by post. I understand its point about wanting to validate a consumers address, but the 
seven-day notice of cancellation was also sent only by post. In my opinion, that wasnt 
acceptable, given the seriousness of the issue and the fact that Mr W had asked for email 
contact. I cant be sure what hed have done if hed got the cancellation notice by email. But 
he wasnt given the chance to decide whether or not to act on an email that wasnt issued.
As the cancellation may have been avoided had the notice of it been emailed, I think it would 
be reasonable for Atlanta to pay Mr W £100 for distress and inconvenience. I think it would 
also be fair for it to refund the £50 cancellation charge and amend the record to show that 
the policy was cancelled in error. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries 
Limited to refund the £50 cancellation charge to Mr W, amend its records to show the policy 
was cancelled in error, and pay Mr W £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman