DRN-3812544
The complaint
Miss I complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost, after she fell victim 
to an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
Miss I was looking for part time jobs in New Zealand, when she received an email from a 
company, through her university email address, saying they were looking for a 
representative in the UK. Miss I was offered the job and told she would receive £280 per 
week, for work that would take her no more than one and a half hours a day (from Monday to 
Friday).
Miss I was told she would need stationary in order to fulfil the role and has told us she 
received emails saying that an international transfer payment had been made to her, so that 
she could buy these materials. Miss I was told the money would take two days to reach her, 
so she was asked to pay for the materials in advance, to enable her to start work. Believing 
everything to be genuine, on 7 May 2022, Miss I went ahead and made a payment for £550, 
through her mobile banking, to account details the company provided her with. But unknown 
to her at the time, Miss I was dealing with fraudsters and had sent money to an account the 
fraudster controlled.
The following day, still believing she was dealing with a legitimate company, Miss I sent a 
further payment for £500, again through her mobile banking. Miss I was told this payment 
was to purchase further materials. Miss I realised shed been scammed when she didnt 
receive the materials or international transfer payments she was expecting and when the 
communication with the fraudster stopped.
Miss I raised the matter with Monzo. Monzo is not a signatory to the Lending Standards 
Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to the 
provisions of it. This means Monzo has made a commitment to reimburse customers who 
are victims of authorised push payment scams except in limited circumstances. Monzo 
investigated Miss Is fraud claim but concluded it had no responsibility to refund her loss. In 
summary this was because it didnt consider Miss I had taken enough steps to check who 
she was paying and what for.
Monzo tried to recover Miss Is money from the receiving bank (the bank to whom the money 
was sent), but it was only able to recover £13.43, which it returned to Miss I. Monzo did 
apologise to Miss I for the support it provided when dealing with her complaint and for not 
responding to messages in a timely manner. In recognition of this it compensated Miss I with 
£50.
Miss I didnt agree with Monzos findings and so brought her complaint to our service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things, but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary, he thought Monzo was entitled to rely on exceptions to reimbursement under the 
CRM code. He thought there was enough going on that Miss I should have had some 
concerns about the transactions she made. Our Investigator also thought Monzo had paid 
appropriate compensation in relation to the service it had offered. 
Miss I didnt agree with our Investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached the 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them, even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Monzo 
should reimburse some or all of the money Miss I lost in line with the provisions of the CRM 
Code it has agreed to adhere to, and whether it ought to have done more to protect Miss I 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss I, and I can understand entirely why she feels 
so strongly that this money should be returned to her. But having thought very carefully 
about Monzos actions, I dont think it acted unfairly by declining her claim under the CRM 
Code. While this was a scam that tricked Miss I into sending payments and receiving nothing 
in return, that doesnt mean Monzo is responsible for her loss. I also dont think it could have 
done any more to try and recover the money. So, while I know it will be disappointing for    
Miss I, having considered everything Im not upholding her complaint.
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*:
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
*There are further exceptions outlined in the CRM Code that do not apply to this caseMonzo has argued that Miss I didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the payment she 
was making was for genuine goods or services.
Ive thought carefully about whether this exception(s) to reimbursement applies in Miss Is 
case. And, on balance, I dont think she has made the payments whilst having a reasonable 
basis for belief that she was engaging in a legitimate transaction. Ill explain why.
- Miss I was offered a position, seemingly without the company interviewing her or 
providing any documentation regarding the role. I think it is questionable whether a 
legitimate company would contact somebody out of the blue and offer them a role, 
without first discussing it with them.
- Coupled with this I find the initial offering, of £280 per week, for no more than seven 
and a half hours work is improbable to the point of being too good to be true. I dont 
think this was plausible and I cant see that Miss I has questioned how this could be 
achieved. 
- Miss I was asked to pay over £1,000 to what she thought was a genuine company. 
But didnt question why she was being asked to pay a personal account if it related to 
a business. I also think its questionable that a legitimate company would ask a new 
employee to use their own money to buy materials, while other payments were 
pending. 
- Although Miss I has said she thought the company were genuine as theyd contacted 
her on her university email address. Miss I has herself acknowledged that she didnt 
carry out any checks on the company to see if they were legitimate. Considering 
what she was being offered and what she was being asked to do (in terms of making 
upfront payments), I think it would be reasonable to have expected her to approach 
things with a bit more caution.
Im mindful that, taking any of the individual factors above in isolation, they may not have 
been enough to have prevented Miss I from proceeding. But when considering the specific 
circumstances of this case and the factors in the round, on balance, I think that there was 
enough going on and sufficient red flags that Miss I ought reasonably to have taken further 
steps to protect herself. All things considered, I dont think Miss I had a reasonable basis for 
believing the payment she was making was for genuine goods or services and Im 
persuaded this was sufficient reason for Monzo to fairly decline to reimburse her under the 
CRM Code. 
Should Monzo have done anything else to protect Miss I and prevent the fraud
Ive thought about whether Monzo did enough to protect Miss I from financial harm. The 
CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. 
I am also mindful that, when Miss I made these payments, Monzo should fairly and 
reasonably have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
Having considered this, Im not persuaded the payments Miss I made to the fraudsters were 
remarkable and so Im satisfied Monzo neednt have identified a scam risk and in turn did not 
need to provide effective warnings or question the payments before processing them. And 
so overall, I dont believe Monzo needed to do more than it did.Ive considered whether Monzo did all it could to try and recover the money Miss I lost, once 
she had reported the scam to it. From the evidence Ive seen, Monzo did contact the 
receiving bank when she raised the matter, but unfortunately the receiving bank reported 
only £13.43 remained, which has since been returned to Miss I. I think Monzo has done what 
could reasonably have been expected of it to try to recover the money.
I understand that Miss I is unhappy with the service Monzo provided. Monzo has recognised 
its service fell short and offered Miss I £50 compensation for this. I think the offer of 
compensation Monzo has made is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and is in line 
with what I would have expected.
I am sorry that Miss I has lost money in this way, and I understand the whole experience will 
have been very frustrating and upsetting for her, but in the circumstances, for the reasons 
explained, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to order Monzo to repay her the money 
she sadly lost.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman