DRN-1886220
The complaint
Mr M complains that a finance agreement he has with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
(BMWFS) was misrepresented to him as interest was not calculated in the way he was told 
it would be.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ms M acquired her car under a personal contract purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the finance agreement should not have 
been misrepresented to him. So, if he was told something that led him to enter into a finance 
agreement he would not otherwise have entered into, I would ask BMWFS to take some 
action.
The total charge for credit was clearly set out on the front page of the finance agreement in 
which it is listed as £6,608.07. I think its reasonable to suggest Mr M should have read that 
agreement and that by signing it he had agreed to its terms.
Mr M says he was told the interest would be charged in a different manner than it has been 
and that, if the business had provided the methodology at the outset, he would not have 
proceeded with the deal. The business dispute this. 
I dont think the business have done anything wrong here. Its usual in these types of 
agreement for interest to be charged on the outstanding balance. 
The monthly instalment is made up of two bits: an interest portion and a capital portion. 
Whilst the overall monthly payment remains the same the proportion of interest within that 
payment reduces over time as the capital diminishes.
I therefore dont think Mr Ms calculation of interest is correct and I think BMWFS have 
applied the interest in the way I would expect for this type of agreement. It follows that I dont 
accept Mr Ms assertion that the business have failed to follow the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCAs) principles.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman