DRN-2303392
The complaint
Mr E complains that esure Insurance Limited didnt pay him enough for his stolen car when 
he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Es car was stolen in July 2020. esure offered him £20,882 based on the average of the 
valuations it found in four national trade guides. Mr E thought the car was worth £26,000. 
Hed seen adverts for similar cars at higher prices and pointed out that his previous insurer 
had insured the car for £24,000 in 2019.
 
As esure didnt increase its offer, Mr E complained to us. One of our investigators reviewed 
his complaint. She checked the trade guide valuations and found that the average valuation 
from them was £21,534.50. So she said esure should offer Mr E a further £652.50.
esure pointed out that the values given in one of the trade guides changed daily, for the 
same car and the right date of its loss. So it said we should accept the valuation it did at the 
time or disregard the valuation from that guide. The investigator checked and found that 
esures observation was correct, so she said it had acted fairly in offering Mr E £20,882. 
Mr E didnt accept the investigators revised view, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy only requires esure to pay Mr E the market value for his car. We think the best 
way to establish what a cars market value is likely to be is to look at the valuations given in 
the national trade guides. Theyre based on extensive research of likely selling prices. If the 
value given in one of the guides is out of line with the others, we think its fair for an insurer 
to discount it. Had esure done that here, it would have offered Mr E £19,813 initially. So 
taking the average of all four guides meant esures offer was over £1,000 higher than it 
would otherwise have been. I think it was a reasonable offer. 
I dont think Mr E can rely on the agreed value a previous insurer decided to insure his car 
for in 2019. A higher premium is usually charged for that type of policy, and in 2020 esure 
only agreed to cover Mr E for the cars market value.
Mr E says esures engineer asked him to provide adverts showing examples of similar 
vehicles when he rejected esures offer for his car. Usually we dont think advertised prices 
are persuasive, as theyre based on asking prices and are open to negotiation. Its also the 
case that advertised prices can vary considerably, and that small differences between cars 
that seem similar can make a big difference to the prices theyre advertised and sold for. But 
we consider the adverts consumers provide, as on rare occasions, they make a difference. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for esure to ask Mr E to provide adverts when he was 
disputing its valuation. But there was no obligation on esure to change its offer after that. 
Mr E says that when he bought the policy, he was asked to state what the cars value was 
and stated that it was £25,000. Thats a standard question asked by insurers, but it only 
requires an estimate from a consumer and isnt binding on an insurer. esure has said it uses 
the figure for reference only and for new car replacements  which doesnt apply here. The 
only way to get a fixed sum for a car is to buy an agreed value policy. 
Later on in the process, Mr E told us that the communication from esure was poor and that it 
put the car up for auction without telling him, when he was still its owner. As far as I can see, 
these issues dont appear to have been raised with esure. Since it hasnt had a chance to 
respond, I cant comment on them.
I understand why Mr E is unhappy that he wasnt offered more for his car, and that hes 
frustrated by not having found a replacement car for the sum he got. But as I dont think Mr E 
has shown that esure acted unreasonably, I cant uphold his complaint.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman