DRN-3434189
The complaint
Mr E complains that NewDay Limited t/a Aqua (Aqua) declined to refund transactions on his 
account he said he didnt authorise.
What happened
Between 26 and 28 January 2021, 5 payments were made on Mr Es Aqua credit card 
totalling £907.79 (including charges). Mr E told our service that he discovered the payments 
when he called Aqua to report his card as stolen. He says he didnt authorise the payments, 
which were made in Turkey, and asked Aqua to refund them.
He told Aqua he hadnt authorised anyone else to use his card, and provided Aqua with a 
copy of his Passport to show it had no stamps from Turkey, as well as travel guidance that 
he says showed only Turkish citizens could travel to Turkey at that time because of 
coronavirus restrictions.
However, Aqua rejected Mr Es complaint. It said that, contrary to what Mr E initially said, he 
had told Aqua he still had the card on 16 February 2022. And that he later said the card was 
in the pocket of a jacket he had thrown away. It said the card transactions were verified by 
chip and PIN and that his card cant have been cloned. It did award him £35 for poor 
customer service he had experienced, but it didnt agree to refund the disputed transactions.
My E brought his complaint to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold it. He noted a 
number of inconsistencies in Mr Es story and was ultimately satisfied Mr E had consented to 
the payments.
Mr E didnt agree. He reiterated that his passport hadnt been stamped and said that Turkey 
was a third world country, which meant it had to stamp passports. And that there were travel 
restrictions in Turkey, meaning it wasnt possible for him to go there. He also said he had 
completed a form confirming he understood he could be prosecuted if his claim was false, 
which he said was evidence of his honesty. And that Aqua had previously allowed a 
transaction he didnt authorise to debit his account, which he said was evidence Aqua had 
done this to him before.
Our investigator considered what Mr E had said, but it didnt change his view. So Mr E asked 
for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In simple terms, if Im to uphold this complaint, Id need to be persuaded that Mr E didnt 
authorise the transactions in question. That is to say that he didnt make the transactions 
himself, or give someone permission to make the transactions.
Aqua has provided evidence that shows the payments in question were made using Mr Es 
card and PIN. Which means that whoever made the transactions had to have Mr Es 
physical card and know his PIN.
Mr E has been inconsistent when explaining what happened to his card. Aqua says he first 
called to report his card stolen, then later said he still had his card, before saying he had 
thrown it away with an old jacket. Mr E told our service he had lost his wallet, including his 
Aqua card and 2 debit cards. He initially said there were no unauthorised transactions on his 
other cards, but he later reported one transaction (also in Turkey) on one of his debit cards 
as unauthorised.
Given Mr Es inconsistency, its difficult to ascertain what happened to his card. And on the 
face of it, none of the scenarios Mr E has offered explain how his card would have ended up 
being used by a fraudster in Turkey.
Notwithstanding that, Ive looked at the evidence relating to Mr Es PIN. Mr E told Aqua he 
hadnt told anyone his PIN, and that he hadnt used his card since he paid off the balance in 
September 2020, 5 months earlier. And he told our service he didnt have the PIN with the 
card.
In light of what Mr E told both our service and Aqua, Ive seen no satisfactory explanation as 
to how anyone could have obtained Mr Es PIN. Much less the same person who could have 
obtained his physical card when it was either lost, stolen or discarded.
Even if Mr Es card and PIN had been compromised by the same person, the spending 
doesnt fit the usual pattern I would expect to see from a fraudster. Based on what Mr E has 
told us, his card cant have been used immediately upon it being compromised. Because he 
claims he wasnt in Turkey.
And it would be unusual for a fraudster to go to the trouble of stealing a card and PIN and 
taking it to a different country only to make infrequent transactions over the course of three 
days, and to stop using it over £2,500 shy of the credit limit.
Mr E also told our service that he only disputed one transaction on his other debit card. But I 
can see from the statements for that account that there were numerous transactions both 
before and after the Turkey payment that Mr E doesnt dispute. So, if the sole Turkey 
payment was made by a fraudster, that would mean the fraudster would have had to obtain 
and return Mr Es card and PIN without him knowing, after making just one payment (of only 
£69.99).
Given what Ive said above, the evidence Mr E has submitted to suggest he wasnt in Turkey 
isnt relevant, because Im satisfied the payments were either made by Mr E or by someone 
else with Mr Es consent. There are also a number of other issues with the evidence Mr E 
has submitted. 
Absence of a stamp on a passport doesnt prove Mr E didnt travel to Turkey, and Ive seen 
nothing to support Mr Es suggestion that Turkey would have been obliged to stamp his 
passport, had he been there. In fact its common for countries (including Turkey) not to 
stamp passports when theyre checked. And while Mr E has sought to suggest he wasnt in 
Turkey, he hasnt provided any evidence to show where he was on the relevant dates. And 
theres another payment on his account at an airport shortly before the transactions Mr E 
claims he didnt authorise. 
Ive reviewed the travel guidance Mr E provided but it doesnt give historic guidance, only 
current guidance. So I cant say with any certainty that non-Turkish citizens were banned from entering Turkey at the time, and indeed Aqua has suggested entry simply required 
completion of an online form.
Mr Es reference to a previous duplicate transaction also isnt relevant. That a duplicate 
payment appeared on his statement previously isnt evidence that Mr E didnt authorise the 
payments he now disputes. And in any event, Mr E was refunded the duplicate payment he 
referred to.
Finally, I dont accept Mr E signing a form that said he could be prosecuted if he provided 
false information is evidence of Mr Es honesty. Given what Ive said above about the 
inconsistencies in Mr Es story, and the contradiction between the evidence and what he has 
said, I dont find Mr E to be a credible witness. And in the circumstances of this case, signing 
the form Mr E has referred to is simply evidence he was aware of the consequences of lying, 
and chose to provide the evidence he did regardless. 
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im not persuaded Mr E didnt authorise the transactions 
he disputes. So, it follows that I wont ask Aqua to refund Mr E.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman