DRN-3478939
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) added an exclusion to his policy and 
declined cover for his claim.
What happened
Mr S and Ms L took out a private medical insurance policy in September 2020 over the 
telephone. The policy was underwritten by AXA. 
During the sales calls Mr S answered a number of health-related questions. He explained he 
had a cancerous tumour in his bladder removed in 2015 and had finished treatment a year 
ago. He was asked if he had any treatment, consultations, investigations or diagnostic tests 
planned or pending, and he replied no. The policy was set up and cover began on 1 
October 2020. 
In March 2021 Mr S called AXA to authorise a final cystoscopy which was needed to check if 
any cancer had returned. He explained it was meant to happen in June 2020, but due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic, it hadnt gone ahead. But he had now been contacted to say things 
were back up and running. 
AXA said they would pre-authorise the appointment. Then a week before the appointment 
they said they were withdrawing consent. Mr S called AXA who said any treatment or 
appointments in relation to bladder cancer wouldnt be covered under the policy as an 
exclusion had been retrospectively applied. 
They said that during the sales call, Mr S answered the question theyd asked about planned 
or pending appointments incorrectly. AXA considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled them to add the exclusion to the policy retrospectively and 
decline his claim because of this. 
Mr S referred the matter to this service. Our investigator looked at what had happened. She 
thought it was reasonable for AXA to apply the exclusion in the circumstances and decline 
the claim. 
Mr S didnt agree. In summary he said: 
He answered every question to the best of his knowledge and ability at the point of 
sale. Hed told AXA he hadnt had his final cystoscopy due to covid-19. And he wasnt 
aware at the time he would still need one. 
AXA admitted that they should have asked more questions when he declared his 
condition. But it appears that them not asking him the correct questions was his fault 
and as a consequence he isnt insured. 
He wouldnt have changed providers if he thought he wouldnt be covered. 
We also sent Mr S the copy of the sales call wed received from AXA as his copy had poor 
sound quality. 
The case has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
AXA thinks Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation because he 
was asked about any planned or pending investigation or treatment. I think AXA asked a 
clear question about any outstanding treatment or check-ups and I note they had already 
explained to Mr S that treatment included medical services to diagnose, relieve or cure a 
disease or illness.
Mr S said no and hes explained that this was because his final check-up had been 
cancelled due to Covid-19. Mr S is only expected to answer questions to the best of his 
knowledge and belief. I appreciate he has said he didnt think his final procedure would be 
rescheduled in the future. But that was an assumption made by him that the appointment 
would never go ahead.  And as he explained during the call in March 2021, he was still 
aware he hadnt yet been checked during his fifth year to identify if any cancer had returned 
 so he hadnt yet been signed off. 
Mr S has said the missed check-up wasnt a diagnostic test. However, Im persuaded it 
would constitute an investigation because it was to establish if any cancer had returned. 
Im also persuaded this check-up could be defined as a medical service under treatment. 
As such, I dont think its unreasonable AXA said Mr S shouldve mentioned this when he 
was asked about planned and pending treatment or investigation. But he didnt mention the 
missed appointment at all during the sales call. 
Ive also taken account of the fact the sales call occurred in September 2020 and the check-
up that hadnt gone ahead was only two months prior, so I dont think its unfair AXA 
expected it to be disclosed.
Based on the above, I dont think it was unreasonable for AXA to say Mr S failed to take 
reasonable care when answering the question asked about pending medical services and 
investigations. The answers to the questions AXA asked allow the underwriters to assess 
any risk of Mr S making a claim, from which they calculate the premium and available
level of cover.
What would AXA have done differently? AXA has said it wouldve applied an exclusion to the cover they offered Mr S had they known 
about this outstanding check-up. Ive checked, and this in in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr S policy. Therefore, Im satisfied Mr S misrepresentation was a qualifying 
one.
AXA have treated Mr S misrepresentation as careless rather than deliberate. And I agree 
that this is fair in the circumstances, so Ive looked at the actions AXA can take in 
accordance with CIDRA. The rules say that AXA can add this type of exclusion to the policy 
from the point of misrepresentation and then assess any claim in line with this added. 
As explained above, had AXA known about Mr S pending check-up, they would have added 
an exclusion on to the policy. This exclusion would have been added on to the policy from 
the start and its fair that AXA assess Mr S claim with this exclusion taken into consideration. 
This means, taking everything into account, Im satisfied it was reasonable for AXA to 
decline cover for Mr S final check-up, because it was fairly excluded under his policy 
retrospectively. 
I note that AXA said the sales agent should have asked more questions when Mr S 
mentioned his previous cancer treatment. This should have prompted them to clarify if any 
further follow ups or monitoring were involved. Its likely this may have uncovered the 
cancelled appointment during the sales call. But I dont think this makes a difference here 
because, as explained above, Im satisfied the specific question they asked about any 
pending treatment or investigations was clear. So, the onus was on Mr S to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation when answering that question. And AXA was entitled 
to rely on the given by Mr S. 
Mr S has said he told the sales agent about the missed appointment. But I have listened to 
his calls with AXA and can confirm this appointment wasnt mentioned at all during the sale. 
AXA wasnt made aware of this until Mr Ss call in March 2021. 
I appreciate this will be a disappointing outcome for Mr S. He said he wouldnt have changed 
providers if he thought he wouldnt be covered anymore. Although Mr S had chosen 
continued medical exclusions underwriting, AXA did explain during the sales call that his 
answers would still be referred to their underwriting team to decide if any exclusions would 
be added  much like the exclusion they added following the shoulder problem Mr S 
declared on the sales call. 
So, whilst Mr S opted to have his medical exclusions carried over, he was still expected to 
answer the medical questions correctly. The policy terms are clear that members must give 
accurate & complete information as it may affect the ability to claim, or AXA may alter the 
terms of the policy. Which in this case they have done in line with the law in CIDRA. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman