DRN-4296772
The complaint
Ms M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund money she lost 
when she was the victim of a scam. 
Ms M is represented by a firm that Ill refer to as C.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In January 2021 Ms M was the victim of a crypto scam. She found the scam firm  which Ill 
refer to as W - on the internet after searching for investment opportunities and found their 
website professional. Ms Ms research also found W as one of the first recommended and 
so, she didnt doubt their legitimacy. After expressing an interest with W, she was persuaded 
to invest by them and they convinced her to download remote desktop software. Ms M made 
the following payments to W via a legitimate crypto exchange:
Date Type Amount
19 January 2021 Faster payment £1,000
20 January 2021 Faster payment £1,000
21 January 2021 Faster payment £1,000
22 January 2021 Faster payment £1,000
Total: £4,000
Ms M saw shed made a substantial profit of about £7,000 on the trading platform and 
wanted to make a withdrawal. W told Ms M she would need to pay fees to do so and, after 
she said she couldnt afford to, she was encouraged to take out a loan. Ms M refused and 
told W she wouldnt be able to invest anything more. At this point, W stopped communicating 
with her and Ms M realised shed been scammed.
C complained to NatWest, on Ms Ms behalf, in March 2023 and  in summary  said:
Ms M had a reasonable basis to believe the scam was genuine. 
NatWest failed to identify these transactions as unusual for Ms M, as she used the 
account for general everyday purposes such as shopping and general household 
bills. And shed made no transactions of a similar value in the months leading up to 
the scam. 
NatWest shouldve spoken with Ms M before processing the transactions and, had 
this happened, it wouldve become apparent  through appropriate questioning  that 
she was falling victim to a scam. From this, the scam payments wouldnt have been 
made. 
NatWest failed to protect Ms M from the scam by not making such enquiries or 
providing an effective warning(s). 
To settle the complaint, they said Ms M would accept reimbursement of the monies 
she lost plus interest and compensation. 
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint and explained the payments werent covered under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. Their fraud prevention system is set up to 
monitor activity for the latest fraud trends and if a transaction matches a known trend, a 
security check will be carried out. If a transaction doesnt trigger, this doesnt however mean 
theres been a bank error. Due to the time since the payments were made, they couldnt say 
whether any of them did flag for a security check. But looking at Ms Ms account, the 
payments werent unusual and they could see she made larger transactions after the scam 
payments. Theyre also required to make payments in accordance with customer instructions 
which they did here. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint but he didnt think NatWest had to do anything 
further. He didnt think the payments wouldve been particularly unusual or suspicious in 
appearance to NatWest. And he referred to Ms M making a genuine £3,000 transaction on 
20 January 2021, prior to the second scam payment. He felt this wouldve given NatWest 
less reason to have considered the last three scam payments as suspicious (as they were of 
a much lesser value). And he added the scam payments didnt deplete Ms Ms account or 
push it into its overdraft. So, he didnt think NatWest shouldve intervened before releasing 
the payments. He also added that, given the funds were sent to an account held in Ms Ms 
own name, he wouldnt have expected NatWest to have attempted to recover them. 
C disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. In short, they said:
The Investigators conclusions rest on Ms M repaying a portion of funds to her foster 
child, an account that credited their client with £4,000 the day prior to this payment. 
Ms Ms foster child is also an established payee on the account and cannot be used 
as a fair comparison as to what NatWest should be expected to flag. There is a clear 
difference in risk between the legitimate established payee and the new scam payee 
linked to crypto/trading. 
Ms M made multiple transfers to the crypto exchange over a short period of time. 
NatWests systems are designed to pick up on various payment characteristics and, 
just because Ms M made a payment to an established payee on her account, the 
beneficiary risk of the scam payee cannot be ignored. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry Ms M has lost a significant sum of money. But while I know this isnt the outcome 
shes hoping for, I dont think NatWest has acted unfairly by not refunding her loss for similar 
reasons to our Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought about the CRM code which can offer a potential means of obtaining a refund 
following Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams. But the CRM code only applies to 
payments made to an account held by another person. As the payments Ms M made were 
sent to an account she held in her own name with a crypto exchange, theyre not covered 
under the CRM code. Ive therefore considered whether NatWest should reimburse Ms M 
under any of their other obligations.In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
their customer authorises them to make. It isnt disputed that Ms M knowingly made the 
payments from her NatWest account and so, Im satisfied she authorised them. Therefore, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of their account, NatWest are 
expected to process Ms Ms payments and she is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
However, taking into account regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for NatWest to 
take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment to help protect 
customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, the starting point here is whether the instructions given by Ms M to NatWest were 
unusual enough - in relation to her typical account activity  to have expected NatWest to 
have identified Ms M was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Having reviewed Ms Ms account statements, it was typically used for low value day to day 
spending along with relatively frequent transactions of several hundred pounds. The four 
£1,000 payments were therefore for more than Ms M normally spent on her account  
except for the £3,000 transfer our Investigator has referred to. That said, banks must strike a 
balance between allowing customers to be able to use their account and questioning 
transactions to confirm theyre legitimate. And so, I dont think payments of £1,000 wouldve 
been unusual enough, in value alone, to have given NatWest sufficient reason to have seen 
them as suspicious. 
Ive also considered the frequency of the payments and that the funds were being sent to a 
new payee for crypto trading purposes. While I accept Cs point that multiple payments 
made to a new payee, over a short period of time, can pose a greater risk than those made 
to an existing beneficiary, I dont think it necessarily means  in these particular 
circumstances  that NatWest is responsible for the loss Ms M suffered. This is because the 
payments were made to a legitimate crypto exchange. And although, sadly, scammers do 
target individuals looking to grow their savings, many people do invest of their own accord 
and by genuine means. So, while NatWest should be looking out for signs that their 
customers are at risk of financial harm from fraud, Im not persuaded the value or frequency 
of the payments were so unusual or suspicious for NatWest to have suspected Ms M was at 
risk of financial harm - thereby prompting them to intervene before processing them. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I dont think NatWest ought to have done more before 
following the instructions Ms M gave.
Im sorry to hear Ms M suffered a financial loss as a result of what happened. But it would 
only be fair for me to direct NatWest to refund her loss if I thought the bank was responsible 
 and Im not persuaded that this was the case. For the above reasons, I think NatWest has 
acted fairly and so Im not going to tell them to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman