DRN-2209872
The complaint
Mr S complains that Collingwood Insurance Company Ltd declined his claim on his car 
insurance policy for a stolen car.
Any reference to Collingwood includes its agents.
What happened
Mr S bought a car insurance policy with Collingwood in October 2018. Around two weeks 
later, he made a claim for a car that was stolen from outside his aunts house. He says he 
parked the car there because his mum was having work completed on their home, which 
required access to his driveway. When he returned later that evening to collect the car, he 
said it had gone. Mr S reported the theft to the police and the insurer immediately. His car 
was later recovered in January 2019  it had been in an accident and deemed a total loss. 
Mr S made a claim on his car insurance policy for his stolen car. As part of its investigations, 
Collingwood appointed a key specialist who thought the car was taken using the second key. 
When asked, Mr S said he knew there was a second key, but he was only ever given one 
key by the garage who sold him the car. Collingwood declined the claim on the basis that   
Mr S knew about a second key but didnt do enough to safeguard the car. It also thought     
Mr S had provided inconsistent information. It pointed out he had told the police he 
suspected an old friend, who was familiar with both the garage and the circumstances 
around the second key, but hadnt given this information to Collingwood.
Unhappy with Collingwoods response, Mr S brought his complaint to our service. He also 
complained about Collingwoods customer service, how long it took to investigate things and 
the impact that this was having on his finances and mental health. 
One of our investigators looked into things and thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld.
He thought that Mr S couldnt be expected to safeguard a key that was never given to him.
He also thought that Collingwoods handling of the claim couldve been better, and that Mr S
had suffered trouble and upset as a result.
Collingwood disagreed with our investigators view and repeated its earlier points around its
decision to decline the claim. It also thought the length of time taken to investigate the claim
was due to a delay in receiving the police report, which it chased frequently. So, it didnt
think it was reasonable for it to be held accountable for the delay.
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision where I said:
Amongst other things, Mr Ss policy covers him for claims as a result of fire, 
lightning, self-ignition, explosion, theft or attempted theft. When Mr S reported the 
incident to the police, the evidence shows it gave it a crime number. Collingwood 
also hasnt disputed that a theft happened. So overall, Im satisfied Mr Ss type of 
loss is covered under the policy.
As part of its investigation into the claim Collingwood appointed a key specialist who 
said he couldnt see any evidence of forced entry or damage to the door locks of the 
car. He also said there was no evidence of another key being programmed onto the 
system, so the car was likely to have been taken using a correctly coded key. Tests 
on the key provided by Mr S showed that the mileage was significantly less than that 
showing on the car at the point it had been recovered. So, the key specialist thought 
the car wasnt taken using the key Mr S was in possession of. Based on the 
evidence, the specialist thought it was more likely that the car was taken using the 
second key. 
Collingwood also appointed an engineer who confirmed that there was no evidence 
of breaking or entering. Mr Ss cousin, who was at home at the time the car was 
stolen from outside her house, confirmed she heard the car leave and assumed it 
was Mr S who had collected it. All this suggests that the car mustve been taken with 
a programmed key. In light of this, and all the other supporting information from this 
investigation, Collingwood concluded that it was most likely that the car was taken 
using the second key. Having considered all the available evidence, I think this was a 
reasonable conclusion for Collingwood to reach.
Collingwood decided to decline Mr Ss claim using the general exclusions section of 
the policy. In particular, it relied on the following term:
2. Looking after the Insured vehicle
 You or any person in charge of the Insured vehicle are required to take all 
reasonable care to safeguard it and its contents from loss or damage...
A lack of reasonable care is when the insured person recognises that there is a risk 
involved in the situation, yet takes no steps to stop this. Collingwood has pointed to 
the information Mr S gave to the police, which formed part of the police report. In 
particular, it has highlighted that Mr S said he knew about the second key. 
Collingwood has declined the claim on the basis that Mr S didnt take enough 
reasonable care to safeguard his car, knowing there was a second key not in his 
possession.
Mr S said that when he bought the car, he was given one key and told by the garage 
that the second key hadnt been sent to it yet, and would be forwarded to him as 
soon as it was received. Mr S says he didnt feel the need to safeguard the car as the 
second key wasnt in circulation and, as far as he was aware, was with a garage. 
When Collingwoods investigators asked the selling garage about this, it confirmed 
Mr Ss version of events about the second key.
I dont think Collingwoods reason for declining the claim is fair. Both Mr S and the 
selling garage have confirmed that only one key was ever given to him. Also, Mr S 
says he didnt recognise that there would be a risk of his car being stolen using the 
second key as he thought it was with a garage, and not in circulation. I think it was 
reasonable for Mr S to think that his car wasnt at risk of being stolen using the 
second key and I can understand why he wouldnt have felt the need to do anything 
more to safeguard it. So, I dont think Collingwoods reason for declining the claim is 
fair in this particular matter.
Collingwood also raised concerns about discrepancies it said it found in the 
information Mr S had given. In particular, it pointed out that he had told the police he 
suspected an old friend, who was familiar with both the garage and the circumstances around the second key, but hadnt given this information to 
Collingwood. 
Ive thought about the point raised here, but I dont think the alleged discrepancy is 
enough to fairly decline the claim. Mr S gave a statement to the police soon after his 
car was stolen. Given that this was so soon after the incident, I dont think it was 
unusual for Mr S to have an immediate suspicion about who might be involved, and 
offer this information when asked for a statement. But I think its clear from the police 
report that this was only a suspicion, based on limited information about the incident 
at the time. So just because Mr S didnt repeat his earlier suspicion when he spoke 
with Collingwoods investigators, I dont think this necessarily means he was 
deliberately being misleading. Ive also noted that the investigator instructed by 
Collingwood commented that they have no doubts with regards to his credibility. 
Based on this, I dont think Mr S was deliberately trying to mislead Collingwood and 
so I dont think its enough to fairly decline his claim. 
I understand Mr S was unhappy with the level of customer service he received 
throughout his claim. He raises a number of issues, including the length of time taken 
to deal with the claim and the effect this is having on his mental health. I was sorry to 
hear of the effect the matter was having on Mr S. When reviewing the customer 
service Collingwood gave, I can see that there was a delay in dealing with the claim, 
primarily as a result of Collingwood waiting for the police report. 
I accept that Collingwood has no control over the police and that it chased the report 
frequently. But an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly. I dont think that 
happened here and, in my view, Collingwood should have proceeded with the 
information available to it so that it would give its decision on the claim within a 
reasonable timeframe of the claim being made, which in my mind would be about six 
weeks. By not doing so, it left Mr S in a position of uncertainty which I think would 
have caused him distress and inconvenience. 
Overall, I dont think Collingwoods reason for declining Mr Ss claim is fair in this 
particular matter and I dont think it handled the claim in the way it should have.
Putting things right
As Ive said, I think it was unfair for Collingwood to decline the claim. So, I think it 
should accept the claim and settle it in line with the remaining terms, conditions, 
excesses and limits of Mr Ss policy. It should calculate the settlement based on the 
market value of the car at the date of loss and include simple interest* at 8% per year 
from the date of loss to the date of settlement. If Collingwood chooses to use the 
settlement to repay the outstanding balance on the finance agreement for the car, it 
should pay the difference to Mr S.
This claim wasnt handled promptly or fairly. There was the time it took for a decision 
to be made on the claim of about 10 months. And then the disappointment when the 
claim was unfairly declined. In the almost two years since the claim was made, Mr S 
has had uncertainty over whether he would be responsible for a large debt to a car 
finance company and the need to make payments of about £470 per month for a car 
he couldnt benefit from. Eventually this proved too much for Mr Ss finances which 
resulted in him being defaulted by the car finance company. Taking all of the above 
into account, I think £750 fairly reflects the impact this matter has had on Mr S, 
especially bearing in mind what hes said about the effect on his mental well-being. If the claim had been settled promptly and fairly, I think its most likely Mr S would 
have acquired another car quite quickly. But, as a result of the claim not being paid 
and the need for him to continue to make car finance payments, this wasnt an option 
for him. Hes explained the impact this has had on him, such as the need to rely on 
lifts to work and to take public transport. In these circumstances I think he should be 
compensated for the loss of use of a car. I think there would have come a time  
such as when a decision on his claim hadnt been made after three months  that it 
was clear the claim wouldnt be paid in the near future and that it therefore would 
have been reasonable for Mr S to do all he could to mitigate his losses by, for 
example, buying a well-used and well-driven car (in other words, a cheap car) to 
keep him mobile. So, taking all that Ive said above into account, I think Collingwood 
should pay Mr S £900 to reflect the loss of use of a car he ought not to have 
avoided.
Mr S responded to the provisional decision to say he has nothing further to add. Collingwood 
responded to say it accepts my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr S has nothing further to add and Collingwood has accepted the decision, I see no 
reason to depart from what I set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require Collingwood 
Insurance Company Ltd to:
settle Mr Ss claim in line with the remaining terms, conditions, excesses and limits of 
his policy;
calculate the settlement based on the market value of the car at the date of loss, and 
include interest* at 8% simple per annum from the date of the loss to the date of 
settlement. If Collingwood chooses to use the settlement to repay the outstanding 
balance on the finance agreement for the car, it should pay the difference to Mr S;
Pay £750** to Mr S for the distress and inconvenience caused;
Pay £900** to Mr S for the loss of use of a car.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
*If Collingwood Insurance Company Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give  Mr 
S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
**Collingwood Insurance Company Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest* on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
Hana Yousef
Ombudsman