DRN-2166189
The complaint
Ms S complains that NewDay Ltd closed her account without telling her.
What happened
Ms S had a credit card account with NewDay. She last used the card in 2016 and cleared 
the balance at the time. Her card expired in around April 2018, but the account remained 
open. In December 2018, NewDay say they sent an email to Ms S prompting her to request 
a new card. Ms S didnt respond to the email so, in around May 2019, NewDay closed the 
account and reported the closure to the credit reference agencies. They didnt tell Ms S that 
theyd done so.
In August 2019, Ms S called NewDay. Their agent told her that the account had been closed 
but couldnt tell her why. The agent suggested various reasons why an account might be 
closed, such as it being with debt recovery. But Ms Ss account hadnt been in arrears and 
she was unhappy that it had been closed without her knowledge.
When Ms S complained to Newday, they said their terms and conditions allowed them to 
close the account due to inactivity. They didnt think theyd done anything wrong by closing 
it. But they upheld the complaint because they hadnt told Ms S that her account would be 
closed. They apologised and said that Ms S could apply for a new account. Theyve 
explained that, as the credit reference agencies have been informed of the closure, they 
cant re-open the old account.
Ms S wasnt happy with NewDays response and brought her complaint to this service. She 
says shes lost the credit facility which the card provided and has spent a lot of time and 
effort pursuing this complaint. She says that NewDay handled the complaint poorly by taking 
a long time to respond and not offering any compensation, even though they upheld the 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think that NewDay had applied their terms and conditions correctly. 
He said they should have given Ms S two months written notice before closing the account. 
He recommended that NewDay pay £100 to Ms S to recognise this mistake and to 
acknowledge the stress and anxiety the situation had caused.
Ms S didnt think £100 was enough. NewDay thought it was too much. So the complaint has 
been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NewDays terms and conditions allowed them to end their agreement with Ms S for any 
reason. But they had to give Ms S two months notice in writing first. Theyve acknowledged 
that they didnt do that, so they accept they need to pay Ms S some compensation. I need to 
decide what would be a fair amount of compensation here.
I dont think it was reasonable that NewDay didnt follow their terms and conditions when 
they closed Ms Ss account. And it was detrimental to Ms S. She says the account was for 
emergencies and, if shed known it was going to be closed, she would have taken steps to 
keep it open. Ive no reason to doubt what she says. Im not aware of any specific losses Ms 
S has suffered through not having the account. But the closure has deprived her of access to 
a significant credit facility and has caused distress and inconvenience.
NewDay have pointed out that Ms S didnt ask for a new card following their email of 
December 2018. Ms S hasnt commented on the email. But she says the reason she called 
NewDay in August 2019 was to check the status of her account because she realised that 
her card had expired. This suggests she wasnt aware of the email, although Im satisfied it 
was sent. Given the nature of Ms Ss call to NewDay, I find it likely that, if shed seen the 
email, shed have acted upon it. But in any event, she had no reason at that stage to think 
that her account would be closed.
When Ms S called NewDay, the agent wasnt able to tell her why the account had been 
closed. NewDay say the agent couldnt access the account details and was simply 
suggesting some generic reasons why an account might be closed. I dont think that was 
unreasonable. But it clearly added to Ms Ss unfortunate customer journey.
When NewDay responded to Ms Ss complaint, they said We didnt issue a letter to you or 
advise you prior to the closure and your feedback has been noted and passed to the 
relevant department. Please accept our apologies regarding this. This is the basis upon 
which they upheld the complaint. But the final response letter also says: As the account had 
been inactive for so long, it was closed in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
 
But the account hadnt been closed in line with the terms and conditions, because they say 
that NewDay must give Ms S two months written notice to end the agreement. Sending a 
letter before closing the account wasnt a preferred approach from a customer service point 
of view. It was a contractual requirement with a set time frame. I dont think NewDays final 
response letter made that clear or did enough to acknowledge the mistake. 
NewDay now accept that compensation is due because they didnt follow the terms and 
conditions correctly. But, even though they upheld the complaint for broadly similar reasons, 
they didnt offer compensation at the time. So Ms S had to pursue the complaint further 
(bringing it to this service) in order to achieve this, causing her further stress and 
inconvenience. I dont think that was fair.
Ms S is unhappy about the amount of time NewDay took to respond to her complaint. I can 
understand her frustration, but I dont think NewDay acted unfairly in that respect. Thats 
because they wrote to her after eight weeks and gave her the option of referring the 
complaint to this service at that stage, which is what Id expect them to do.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I think compensation of £100 is appropriate here. I realise 
thats less than Ms S would like. But our awards arent intended to punish a business. 
Instead, they aim to reflect the impact of the situation and put it right so far as possible.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that NewDay Ltd should 
pay compensation of £100 to Ms S.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman