DRN-2746726
The complaint
Mr D is complaining about how Volkswagen Versicherung Aktiengesellschaft (VW) declined 
a claim he made on his motor warranty policy.
What happened
Mr D purchased a three-year motor warranty policy when he bought his car in 2016. In June 
2019, this policy expired, so he purchased an annual extended warranty to continue cover 
for the sudden failure of all electrical and mechanical components.
In May 2020 he experienced a problem with the reverse gear on his car. He brought his car 
to a garage who diagnosed the fault and advised on a gearbox replacement. So, he 
submitted a claim to VW under his extended warranty. 
VW declined Mr Ds claim and said that he had exceeded his 12-month mileage allowance. 
His 12-month mileage allowance was 15k miles, and the mileage recorded at the time of the 
fault showed that Mr D had travelled approximately 18k miles in that period of cover (11 
months). VW said that if Mr D had wanted cover for increased mileage, he shouldve called 
to purchase a higher mileage policy, which he couldve done at any point in the policy term. 
But as that hadnt happened it had no option but to decline the claim.
Mr D said his mileage had increased suddenly from February 2020 because of the Covid19 
pandemic and he considered this to be an exceptional circumstance. Mr D is a doctor 
working on the frontline with the NHS, and because of the Covid19 pandemic he says his 
hours suddenly increased. Mr D says that because of this he quite suddenly had to start 
using his vehicle more often. He said he did try to call VW on a number of occasions to let 
them know about the increased mileage, but he says he could never get through. He says 
that because of the pandemic and government lockdown, his calls were not being answered.  
But VW says its telephones were manned almost immediately from the time the government-
imposed lockdown began in March 2020. It says there was no break in its customer service 
because of the lockdown, and it has no record of Mr Ds attempted calls. So, it continued to 
decline the claim
Mr D remained unhappy, so he complained to our service. An investigator looked at the 
complained and felt that VW hadnt done anything wrong. 
But Mr D doesnt agree, and he has asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The original policy, taken out when the vehicle was purchased, had a 60,000-mile travel 
allowance over 36 months. During this first 36-month period Mr D travelled approximately 
52,000 miles, averaging approximately 17,000/18,000 miles per 12-month period. The policy 
that forms the basis for this complaint has a mileage limit of 15,000 miles. Meaning Mr D is 
insured to cover 15,000 miles in a 12-month period.
If Mr D felt he was going to require more cover, he had two options. He could either 
purchase a policy that had a larger mileage allowance from the beginning, or he could call 
VW and purchase this increased mileage policy at any point mid-term.
Mr D says that his mileage increased unexpectedly in February 2020 when the Covid19 
pandemic hit. He says that he tried to call VW to notify it, but he couldnt get through on the 
numbers provided. 
Mr D has told us that he tried a few numbers on many different occasions, and from 
numerous different phones, both his private phone, and sometimes the phones in the office 
of wherever he was working at the time (he has told us he has three different places of 
work). Hes provided his telephone bills, which do show us some numbers he called at that 
time, from his personal phone only, but theres no match with any of the VW numbers we 
have. Mr D has advised that there was never an answer, and that even the live chat function 
on the website wasnt working. He says that VW was uncontactable during the government-
imposed lockdown and as such he couldnt amend his policy to buy a new upgraded one.
VW says that it was contactable at all times. It says that the policy terms and conditions 
provide a contact address, telephone number and email address, and that the contact centre 
continued to operate throughout the pandemic. Mr D has specifically mentioned two VW 
centres he says he tried to contact. In particular hes adamant about a specific number found 
in the FAQ section of the website that he says was never answered. VW say that these 
centres remained open on their service lines only from 10am to 4pm Mon-Fri to support key 
workers and carers. Its also provided us with social media posts to support this and when 
we tried to call this numbers, the calls were picked up. However, I do agree as Mr D has 
pointed out that we are now out of the lockdown scenario, and things were very different in 
March/April 2020.
In a situation like this I have to weigh up everything Ive been presented with and I have to 
decide whats more likely than not to have happened. I can completely believe that there 
may have been interruptions to the service that VW was providing, given the unprecedented 
lockdown scenario. So, I wouldnt be surprised if VW experienced telephone service issues 
even if it may not have been aware of them. And in fact, VW does say that many of its sales 
numbers were unmanned at the time. But I have to weigh this up against what Mr D is likely 
to have done. And in the absence of any evidence to support his attempts to call VW, its 
very difficult to say whether Mr D had difficulty getting through to VW on the phone. 
Ive listened to the call that our investigator had with Mr D on 1 April 2021 and during this 
call, Mr D says he called VW a few times and didnt get any help. He says in particular he 
wanted to notify VW of his mileage. He says it was after that that VW said to me youve 
exceeded. So, I checked, I mean at that time I wasnt aware there was even a mileage. I 
know they will probably say it was in the small print, but you dont always read the small 
print, do you?
Based on this I think its clear that Mr D did try to call VW and its possible that he didnt get 
through on occasion. But it sounds like he did speak to VW at some point. However, I cant 
say based on what Mr D has said that Mr D was calling to declare an increased mileage and 
purchase an upgraded policy, before he had to make a claim. Listening to what Mr D says it 
sounds like he only realised there was a mileage issue after he spoke to VW. So, Im not convinced that Mr D was aware of the mileage limitations on his policy until after he spoke to 
VW, possibly to notify it of the claim. And because of this I wouldnt agree that any issues Mr 
D had with the VW telephone system had any impact on his ability to upgrade his policy 
before his gearbox failed. 
So that brings us to the claim itself and its exclusion under the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr D had gone over his allotted mileage allowance, and this meant the policy no longer 
provided him cover. Its clear that Mr D was travelling on average 17,000+ miles per 12 
months before the pandemic hit. And even though its likely the pandemic had an impact on 
his mileage, taking into account the previous years mileage, I think Mr D wouldve more 
likely than not exceeded the allowed mileage even if there hadnt been unprecedented 
circumstances. So, I think VW was acting fairly when it decided to decline the claim. And 
based on what Ive seen I wont be asking VW to reconsider it. It may be that this policy 
wasnt actually suited to Mr D  based on his annual mileage. But thats not an issue that I 
will be dealing with in this decision.
I know Mr D will be disappointed with this outcome. I am mindful of the circumstances Mr D 
was working under at the time, as a frontline NHS worker, who was working in an 
unprecedented time, under unprecedented pressure saving lives. But even bearing these 
circumstances in mind and bearing in mind the guidance set out by the FCA, I still dont think 
it would be fair to ask VW to cover something it wasnt actually on cover for. As such I think 
VW correctly declined this claim, and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman