DRN-3551101
The complaint
Mr B complains that three loans he took out with TM Advances Ltd were unaffordable and 
should not have been provided.
What happened
 Mr B has a professional representative in bringing this complaint, but for clarity Ill refer to 
their representations as his own.
Mr B took out three loans as follows:
21 June 2016 (Loan 1) was for £1,500 to be repaid at £173.75 a month over 
24 months. The APR was 232.7% and total amount repayable was £4,170.
29 November 2017 (Loan 2) was for £3,000 to be repaid at £255.83 a month for 
36 months. The APR was 151.6% and total amount repayable was £9,209.88.
8 August 2018 (Loan 3) was for £1,500 to be repaid at £159 per month for 
30 months. The APR was 213.5% and total amount repayable was £4,770.
Mr B says he was in a cycle of debt and that TM Advances didnt undertake sufficient 
affordability checks when he took out these loans. He says given his circumstances he 
should have been directed to free debt advice rather than lent to further as a solution to his 
increasing debt. Mr B has since proposed a debt management plan.
TM Advances says it verified Mr Bs income for each application and undertook credit 
searches. It found Mr Bs explanation for the defaults on his credit file reasonable  that he 
had needed frequent trips abroad to visit his mother when she was unwell. TM Advances 
also said Mr Bs credit balances had decreased between each loan and there was no 
reasonable indication that the loan repayments were not affordable.
When Mr B complained to our service, the investigator upheld the complaint. They didnt 
think TM Advances had lent responsibly in the circumstances.
As TM Advances didnt respond, the case was passed to me for a decision.
I asked Mr B for some more information about his financial activity in the months leading up 
to Loan 3 and how gambling had affected his finances at the time. Mr B said he was under 
great pressure and stressed when he took out Loan 3. He said he was in a bad state and 
gambled to have enough money to pay his debts but he ended up in more debt. Mr B said 
he used the Loan 3 funds to gamble and was left in a worse position.
I issued my provisional decision on 20 May 2022 explaining why I was intending to uphold 
the complaint. 
Mr B didnt respond by the deadline, and TM Advances didnt provide any further 
information. So, Im now in a position to issue my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulations and guidance are included in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). TM Advances was entering a regulated credit 
agreement and it was required to take reasonable steps to be satisfied Mr B would be able 
to make repayments sustainably without having to resort to further finance.
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. In 
general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer. For 
example, their financial history, any foreseeable changes in future circumstances, and any 
indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. The amount, type, length of borrowing and 
cost of credit they have applied for would also be considered.
In light of this, I think the greater the potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay 
the credit in a sustainable way, the more thorough a reasonable and proportionate check 
ought to have been.
I will set out my findings for each loan.
Loan 1  June 2016
When assessing this application, TM Advances undertook a review of Mr Bs credit report. 
This showed 7 defaulted accounts with a total balance of £3,686. Whilst Mr B did provide 
some context for why he had accumulated this debt, TM Advances would still need to have 
considered what this meant for his financial stability and ability to repay any further loans.
Mr B included £184.30 expenditure towards his defaulted accounts on his income and 
expenditure assessment as part of his application. However, Mr Bs credit report showed 
that little or no payments had been made towards reducing the balance of his defaulted 
accounts since defaulting. TM Advances assessment of Mr Bs financial circumstances 
found he had £297 disposable income.
Looking at this information as a whole, I think the information TM Advances had at the time 
of lending showed Mr B was having trouble managing his money. He had not been reducing 
his defaulted balances by the amount on his application and his level of debt / lack of 
reduction in debt levels over the previous months was inconsistent with having £297 
disposable income. So, by lending to Mr B in the circumstances I think TM Advances 
increased his overall indebtedness and worsened his financial situation. I think it had enough 
information to conclude Mr B would be unlikely to be able to sustainably repay this lending.
Loan 2  November 2017
At the time of this application, Mr B had reduced his total defaulted balance and broadly 
maintained repayments for loan 1. However, I think TM Advances should still have identified 
that Mr B was continuing to have problems managing his money for the following reasons:
A further default had been registered in March 2017 for £134.
Mr B had opened a new credit card account in January 2017 with a limit of £200 
which had been exceeded at the time of this application.Four default balances remained.
The above information was inconsistent with TM Advances assessment that Mr B had £699 
monthly disposable income. And I think a further default without explanation ought to have 
caused concern.
It isnt enough for TM Advances to consider the risk to itself as a lender based on previous 
repayments. Whilst this is of course relevant, the other information speaks to Mr Bs ability to 
sustainably repay this loan without it having a detrimental impact on servicing his existing 
debts, meeting his day to day expenditure, and not relying on further lending to do so.
There were clear signs of unsustainability at the time and so I dont think it was responsible 
to provide this lending.
Loan 3  August 2018
At the time of this application, Mr B had reduced his outstanding debt and met his 
repayments for Loan 2. However, he still had three defaulted accounts and had further 
exceeded his credit card balance. This was inconsistent with assessing Mr Bs disposable 
income as £394  particularly given the amount he was exceeding his credit card limit by 
was approximately £50. So, I think there were indicators that Mr B continued to have some 
financial instability, but on balance, not enough to say TM Advances should not have lent to 
Mr B. Rather, I think it would have been appropriate to undertake further checks to establish 
what Mr B could have afforded to sustainably repay.
We cant now know for certain exactly what those further checks would have been, but I 
think TM Advances needed to do more to verify Mr Bs expenditure  and so its likely this 
would involve reviewing some recent bank statements. Ive considered Mr Bs statements 
from the time as a way of understanding more about his financial situation. And therefore, 
what proportionate checks by TM Advances would likely have shown.
In the three months leading up to this application Mr Bs statements show significant levels 
of gambling  on average gambling much more than his income. Sometimes working out 
well and in other months such as in July 2018 he received no winnings into his account. The 
level of activity indicates Mr B had a problem with gambling that was impacting his financial 
stability. For example, in May 2018 he spent over £10,000.
On balance, I think its likely that proportionate checks would have shown that Mr B could not 
sustainably repay this further lending and so I dont think it was responsible for TM Advances 
to have provided this loan.
Putting things right
It isnt possible to put Mr B back in the position he would be in had TM Advances not 
provided the lending, so I think a fair way to put matters right is for it to remove any interest 
or charges applied to the loans and pay this to Mr B. TM Advances should also amend 
Mr Bs credit file to remove any adverse information.
Ive also taken into account the fact that while Mr B has received the loan funds, Loan 3 was 
all lost to gambling. His statements show that on 8 August 2018 Mr B receives the £1,500 
loan and that on the same day he pays £1,504 to a gambling website. Given the level of 
gambling on Mr Bs account, I think that had TM Advances undertaken proportionate checks, 
it would have been foreseeable that Mr B would likely use the funds to gamble and therefore 
that they may be lost. For this reason, I also think it would be fair for any outstanding amount 
on Loan 3 to be written off.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that TM Advances Limited should:
1. If the borrowing on loan 3 is still in place, write off the outstanding balance.
2. Refund all the interest and charges Mr B has paid to date
3. Pay simple interest at 8% on the amount in point 2, from the date there would have 
been a positive balance on each loan as a result of this until the date of settlement*. 
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file 
* HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, TM Advances Limited must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if he asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman