DRN-2708512
The complaint
Mr S complains that esure Insurance Limited (trading as Sheilas' Wheels) unfairly declined 
the claim he made on his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S held buildings and contents cover with esure which also provided protection from 
accidental damage. 
Because a neighbour was having building works completed, a scaffolding structure was 
propped up against one of Mr S outside walls. In early-2020, Mr S noticed that this had 
caused damage to his property. He could see that there were cracks in the rendering of one 
of his walls, which he raised with the scaffolding company and this firm accepted liability.    
Mr S left it that this scaffolder would fix things for him when possible, at the scaffolders cost. 
However, later on that year, once the government temporarily eased lockdown restrictions in 
place for COVID-19, this scaffolder would no longer engage with Mr S. Mr S couldnt reach 
an agreement for the repairs to be completed, so he faced paying for them himself. He 
therefore raised a claim for the damage with esure in August 2020. 
At the beginning of September 2020, esure arranged for an inspection to take place. The 
surveyor concluded that the cracks were likely caused by the gradual effect of the weather  
not the scaffolding, as Mr S had thought. According to the terms of the contract, the policy 
excluded the damage. So, esure declined the claim on that basis. 
Mr S raised a complaint and when esure maintained its decision, he brought the matter to 
our service. One of our investigators looked into it and, ultimately, thought that a fair 
outcome had been reached on the claim. Based on the evidence, she wasnt persuaded that 
Mr Ss wall had been damaged by the scaffolding. Therefore, she didnt recommend the 
claim be paid out by esure. 
Mr S does not agree. He believes the inspection was prejudiced and that esure hasnt gone 
far enough to establish liability with the scaffolder or the third-party insurer. Also, he submits 
that he couldnt arrange a second inspection due to the restrictions in place for the      
COVID-19 pandemic. 
Because Mr S is not in agreement, the complaint has been escalated to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
According to the terms and conditions of the policy, Mr Ss home was covered for accidental 
loss or damage caused as a direct result of a single, unexpected and unintended event. On 
account of this, it would seem that damage which was indeed caused by scaffolding might 
have been covered. However, esure maintains that it was not the scaffolding (or any other 
one-off event) that caused Mr Ss loss. Therefore, the dispute here lies in what caused the 
damage being claimed for. That being the case, this is what Ive focused on in my decision. 
For the purposes of determining Mr Ss claim, esure appointed an industry professional to 
inspect Mr Ss home  which was the right thing to do. This surveyor concluded that the 
cracks in Mr Ss outside wall likely came as a result of drying shrinkage and thermal 
movement. He did not agree it was the scaffolding structure, or any other one-off event that 
caused the damage. Rather, the cracks occurred over time. Ive seen no evidence that 
compels me to believe that this individual was not suitably qualified, or that the inspection 
was flawed or inaccurate. So, Im satisfied that the conclusions contained in the report from 
September 2020 can safely be relied upon and esure didnt need to make further enquiries. 
The policy terms make it clear that esure is not liable for claims made for accidental damage 
that were caused by the sun, weather or atmospheric conditions. Considering the damage 
here was essentially caused by the weather, esure acted in line with the contractual terms by 
declining this claim. Moreover, theres a general exclusion in the policy which states that 
esure will not pay for loss or damage resulting directly or indirectly from wear and tear. 
Among other things, this includes loss or damage that happens gradually over time. Based 
on the findings from the surveyors inspection, its evident that these cracks did happen 
gradually  so, the claim would be excluded under those conditions in any case.  
Mr S was within his rights to obtain a second opinion from an alternative surveyor. And I can 
see that esure was open to this. However, Mr S says he was restricted from doing so, given 
the lockdown measures that were in place at the present time because of COVID-19. Of 
course, we know an inspection on the property was successfully carried out  which, 
naturally, shows that such surveyance could be completed. Indeed, its my understanding 
that government guidelines permitted surveyors to carry on inspecting houses (subject to 
certain conditions) at the material time for this claim, i.e. shortly after the inspection that did 
take place. So, Im not convinced that Mr S was prevented from arranging a survey on his 
property (especially as it was an outside inspection that was needed). 
In any event, Im satisfied that esure reached a fair outcome on this claim and it was 
reasonable for it to rely on the surveyors report. It follows that I do not require it to do 
anything differently for this complaint.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2021.
 
Matthew Belcher
Ombudsman