DRN-3394358
The complaint
Mrs R is represented by her husband, Mr C. She complains that Atlanta 1 Insurance 
Services (trading as Autonet) acted unfairly when Mr C tried to set up a motor insurance 
policy through it on her behalf. 
What happened
Mr C chose a policy through Atlanta after searching on a comparison website. He says the 
policy was to start on 27 October 2021 and thats the date he entered on the comparison 
website. He says the date also showed on Atlantas screen. Mr C paid for the policy, but 
shortly afterwards he noted that its start date was shown as 1 November 2021. 
When Mr C contacted Atlanta to query the issue, it said if he wanted it to change the date on 
the policy, it would cost £35 more for cover. Mrs R and Mr C found that unacceptable. They 
think Atlanta misled them by offering a policy that seemed to be cheaper than it actually was, 
due to a concealed later start date. Mr C was told if Mrs R cancelled the policy, thered be an 
administration charge. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Rs complaint. Initially she didnt uphold it. She 
thought there was nothing to show that Atlanta had acted unreasonably, and that if there 
was a problem it might be with the comparison website. Mr C then sent in screenshots of a 
quote he got on 29 October 2021 showing that the same start date was showing on the 
comparison website and Atlantas website before payment was collected. He said thats 
what had happened on 27 October 2021 too, which meant an action on Atlantas part must 
have led to the policys change of date. The investigator then upheld the complaint - but later 
she changed her mind when Atlanta provided further information. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the first point to consider is that as Mrs R has made a complaint about Atlanta, its for 
her to show that it did something wrong  or at least that the available facts show its more 
likely than not that Atlanta was at fault. I dont think shes been able to do that. 
Mr C is sure he entered 27 October 2021 as the policys start date, but he has no evidence 
of it. He tried again on 29 October 2021, as a test, and took screenshots. Both websites 
showed the same date, just as Mr C said they had on 27 October 2021. Atlanta said thats 
the way the system always works, so if Mr C had entered 27 October 2021 initially as the 
policy start date, thats the date that would have transferred across to it. If so, Atlanta says 
the policy would have had that start date.
Atlanta says each quote passed through to it has a unique reference number attached, and 
nothing it has in its records matches a policy set up to start on 27 October 2021 for Mrs R.
Mr C remains certain that 27 October 2021 was showing at that point he bought the policy. It 
isnt clear why, if thats the case, Atlantas system used a different date for the policy. Mr C 
has told us what he thinks must have happened  which is that Atlanta concealed the fact 
that it was changing the policy start date after he bought it. But in my opinion, thats only 
conjecture, as theres no evidence to support it. 
Atlanta has shown that the its terms of business set out the small charge that will be made 
on cancellation prior to the policys start date. Mrs R had to agree to the terms of business 
before buying the policy. So I dont think Atlanta acted unfairly in making a £12.50 charge. 
I appreciate that Mrs R and Mr C are very upset by having to pay anything at all, when they 
believe Atlanta deceived them by changing the policys start date, but as I dont think theres 
evidence of that, I cant uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman