DRN-2610719
The complaint
B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to process a payment instruction in a timely 
manner.
What happened
B is a small self-administered pension scheme (SSAS). It holds a bank account with HSBC. 
B has two managing trustees who are the beneficiaries of the scheme, and further trustees 
are appointed by a third party. Much of the correspondence on this complaint has been with 
one of the managing trustees. But for ease I will generally just refer to B as the relevant party 
in this complaint.
On 7 March 2020 B wrote to HSBC asking that the pension benefits due to one of the 
beneficiaries be transferred to another pension provider. The amount of the transfer being 
requested was £1,022,402.
HSBC rejected the transfer instruction and wrote to B on 19 March explaining that transfers 
of this nature could only be requested by the submission of a Transfer of Funds application 
form. It said that since 2016 it hadnt accepted free format requests for transfers like this.
The managing trustee who was the beneficiary of the pension savings being transferred 
complained to HSBC about the delay in making the payment. He said that HSBC had 
accepted a similarly formatted request in October 2017 on behalf of the other scheme 
member.
HSBC didnt agree with that complaint. It said that it had written to all its customers in 2016 
about the new transfer form. And it said it had repeated that information in 2017 when a 
similar transfer request had been made by B. It reiterated that it couldnt process the transfer 
unless the correct form had been completed.
B did ultimately submit the transfer using the correct form on 26 June, and the payment was 
completed six days later. But unhappy with HSBCs response B referred the complaint to this 
Service. The complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She thought that it 
was reasonable that HSBC could direct the forms that needed to be completed before a 
transfer of this sort was made. So she didnt think HSBC had acted incorrectly, or was 
responsible for any delays to the transfer. She didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by B and by HSBC. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Generally I wouldnt think it is appropriate for me to direct a business about how it should 
conduct its operations, provided they fall within the terms and conditions agreed with its 
customers and the rules set by the regulator. And, over time, I would generally consider that 
it is reasonable for a business to change its normal processes, providing its terms and 
conditions allow it to do so and that the appropriate notice is given to consumers.
HSBC has said that it wrote to all its customers in 2016 to advise them of the new Transfer 
of Funds application form that would need to be completed. That sort of form isnt unusual  
it allows a business to ensure that all the relevant information is captured in a standard 
format and enables its back-office processing functions to be both efficient and accurate. So 
I cannot conclude that it is unreasonable for HSBC to require transfers to be instructed and 
authorised using that standard form.
I have noted that B says a similar transfer was requested by a free form letter in 
October 2017. From the information I hold it isnt clear to me whether HSBC accepted the 
transfer instruction in that format. But I have seen a copy of a letter that HSBC sent to B 
immediately afterwards confirming that it required future transfer instructions to be sent using 
its standard form.
So I think it would be reasonable to conclude that HSBC had previously told B that it would 
need to use the standard form for any transfer requests. So I dont think it was unreasonable 
for HSBC to reject the free form letter it received in March 2020. Within ten working days of 
the original request being received HSBC had written to B to ask that the transfer request be 
resubmitted on the correct form. I have no doubts that doing so might have been 
inconvenient for B, given the need to gather signatures from the multiple trustees, but that 
wouldnt make me think HSBC had acted unreasonably.
As I said earlier, I cannot be sure whether or not HSBC processed the transfer instruction in 
2017 without it being on the correct form. But even if it had done so, I cannot agree with B 
that any precedent was established that would require HSBC to accept similar instructions in 
the future. And I think that is even further underlined by the letter HSBC sent to B shortly 
afterwards.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision will be for the beneficiary of the transfer that B 
instructed. They were left without the benefit of the transferred funds for some time. But 
I think that HSBC acted promptly, both in rejecting the original request, and then in 
completing the transfer once the correct form had been completed. So I dont think HSBC 
has done anything wrong here, and so I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman