DRN-2272983
The complaint
Ms O is seeking to recover €400 from Skrill Limited (Skrill), which she lost from her account 
as a result of an authorised push payment (APP) scam.
Skrill says it is not liable for the loss because Ms O unwittingly authorised the payment 
herself  and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the 
money from the receiving bank.
What happened
On 1 July 2019 Ms O sent a payment of €400 from her Skrill electronic money account to 
another Skrill account using their send money feature. Our service asked what it was that 
Ms O was trying to buy on more than one occasion, but it is not entirely clear from the 
information we have on our file what she was trying to buy, or how she found it. She said she 
realised she had been scammed when she didnt receive the goods or services, and 
contacted Skrill through their chat function the same day. Skrill advised that no funds 
remained in the receiving account. 
Ms O was unhappy, so she complained to Skrill. They explained that they would not be 
refunding her the €400 as Ms O had authorised the transaction and they had followed her 
instruction. The receiving account had no funds remaining in it by the time she had got in 
touch with them, so they felt they could not have done any more to try and recoup her lost 
money. 
Ms O remained unhappy, so she came to our service. Our investigator reviewed what had 
happened and didnt recommended that the complaint be upheld. They felt that the 
transaction wasnt so unusual that it should have triggered any further intervention from the 
bank at the time of the transaction; and they felt that Skrill had done all they could in trying to 
recoup the funds. Ms O was unhappy, so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Ms O has said that she was 
the victim of a scam. She instructed Skrill to send the money to the receiving account  
and they followed that instruction. So, although she did not intend the money to go to a 
scammer, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions 
of his account, Ms O is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider Skrill should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, Skrill should have been on the look-out for 
unusual and out of character transactions. But Im not satisfied that the activity that took 
place on Ms Os account during the scam was sufficiently unusual and out of character to 
have put Skrill on notice that she was at risk of fraud. Whilst I appreciate the value of the 
payment is not insignificant here, I dont consider that the total value of the payment in itself 
is enough to be an indicator of fraud, warranting further action from Skrill. 
And so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to say there was anything about 
this payment that wouldve stood out and given Skrill a reasonable basis for suspecting 
that Ms O was being defrauded or that she was at risk of financial harm. For this reason, I 
dont think it would be fair for me to hold Skrill liable for Ms Os loss  the fault here lies 
with the fraudster themselves. 
According to its notes, Ms O contacted Skrill on 1 July 2019 at 6.53pm after she became 
aware that shed been the victim of a scam  the same day she had authorised the 
payment. From reviewing Skrills notes it appears the beneficiary account had been 
emptied at 6.20pm  and the account holder hasnt utilised the account since. So I cant 
say Skrill could have done more to recoup the money for Ms O. 
While I appreciate Ms O has been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think Skrills decision 
to not to refund her the remaining amount, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, 
is fair and reasonable. It followed Ms Os instruction to make the payment and I havent 
seen any reason why it shouldnt have done this. And I think it did all it could to try and 
recover Ms Os funds when notified of the scam. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman