DRN-4352671
The complaint
Mrs K complains One Insurance Limited are pursuing her for the cost of recovery and 
storage charges incurred after her car was involved in an incident. She also complains 
personal possessions were removed from her car and not returned.
What happened
This service has previously considered a complaint about how One Insurance dealt with the 
underlying claim. A final decision on that complaint found that One Insurance did not handle 
it correctly. Its actions likely caused Mrs K to cancel the claim unnecessarily and opt to 
arrange repairs to her vehicle privately. Mrs K was awarded compensation for the trouble 
and upset she was caused.  
This complaint follows on from that and is about One Insurance pursuing Mrs  K for recovery 
and storage costs incurred prior to the claim being cancelled. Mrs K also claims  for the loss 
of personal possessions. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint thought given the circumstances of how the claim 
came to be cancelled, One Insurance had acted unreasonably in pursuing Mrs K for the 
fees. She recommended that One Insurance register the cost of the recovery and storage 
fees against a claim on the policy, subject to Mrs Ks agreement - with Mrs K being aware of 
the impact that may have going forward. Alternatively, the investigator explained Mrs K could 
choose to pay those fees to One Insurance so the record would show the whole incident as 
notification only. 
The investigator thought that it was more likely than not Mrs Ks personal possessions were 
in the car when it went to the storage compound. And as they were not returned to her, One 
Insurance should pay Mrs K an equivalent amount to what it would cost Mrs K to replace 
them, £82.93. 
The investigator also thought £100 compensation should be awarded to reflect the trouble 
and upset One Insurances actions have caused. And, she explained to Mrs K she didnt 
think it would be reasonable to ask One Insurance to make a payment to her relatives for the 
time they spent helping her retrieve her car from the storage compound.
Mrs K accepted the investigators opinion, but One Insurance did not respond despite being 
reminded. 
The case has therefore been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It has already been decided by this service that One Insurances action in relation to 
the underlying claim likely led Mrs K to cancel the claim unnecessarily.
Usually, fees for recovery and storage charges would be added to a claim. Given the 
circumstances of how the incident happened, this claim, had it progressed, would 
most likely have been recorded as a fault claim as there was no third party to recover 
costs from. So, these fees would have simply been registered as a cost against the 
claim. They are fees that insurers naturally incur as part of claims and therefore I 
wouldnt expect Mrs K to be asked for a contribution towards these by way of 
payment of an excess.
I dont think One Insurance acted reasonably by pursuing Mrs K for these fees in the 
first instance. I think it should have made contact with her to discuss the situation and 
set out her options. By pursuing her and threatening court action, it has caused her 
trouble and upset. 
I think One Insurance should now offer those options to Mrs K. For the fees to be 
registered against the claim, and for it to register as a fault claim or giving Mrs K the 
option to pay them so the claim records as notification only. 
If One Insurance has separately incurred fees for how it has administered this 
amount so far, I dont think it would be reasonable to pass this cost onto Mrs K as I 
have found it has acted unreasonably in taking this action. 
Based on the evidence provided by Mrs K, I think it is more likely than not her 
personal possessions were in the car when it was recovered, and as such, they 
should have been returned to her. I think she has made reasonable attempts to 
locate them and have them returned but this has not happened. So, I think it is 
reasonable to conclude they are now missing or have been disposed of. 
Mrs K has explained what it would cost for her to replace them now, £82.93, so I 
think One Insurance should pay an equivalent amount to Mrs K so she can do this.
The impact to Mrs K of One Insurances handling of the claim has been considered 
under a previous complaint at this service. It recognises she was caused 
inconvenience and compensation was awarded. I wont therefore consider separately 
here whether, what essentially amounts to inconvenience payments, should be made 
to family members as they had to help Mrs K collect the car from the storage 
compound.  I think that inconvenience overall has already been recognised in the 
previous complaint. 
I do however think buy chasing Mrs K for costs and threatening legal action 
One Insurance has caused her further trouble and upset. So, I think it should pay her 
£100 compensation to reflect this.
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right, One Insurance Limited should do the following:
Contact Mrs K and offer to add the cost of recovery and storage charges to the claim, she 
would not need to pay an excess, but One Insurance would be entitled to register the claim 
in the way it normally would. Alternatively, Mrs K should be given the option of paying the recovery and storage fees 
incurred. Again, One Insurance would then register the incident in the way it normally would 
but with no fees registered against it.
Pay Mrs K £82.93 to allow her to replace her personal possessions.
Pay Mrs K £100 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset she has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint against One Insurance Limited. I direct it 
to put things right as I have set out in the section above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman