DRN-3043570
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains that Ss commercial insurer UK Insurance 
Limited (UKI) has unfairly declined its claim for fire damage at its business premises. Ms G, 
a director of S, brings the complaint on Ss behalf. 
What happened
In November 2019 S suffered a fire at the rear of its premises which damaged some 
equipment and stock, and it claimed to UKI under its Commercial Combined policy. 
UKI appointed loss adjusters who investigated the claim and requested estimates for repairs 
from S. The loss adjuster obtained CCTV stills and photos which showed where the fire 
started but not the cause. The loss adjuster said there may have been combustible material 
at the rear of the premises, and this may have been ignited by a wood burner situated there. 
The fire service stated the fire was accidental and likely to be due to combustible material 
too close to a heat source. UKI asked its loss adjuster if waste material was present, and the 
loss adjuster said, this is almost impossible to comment upon as the rear of the site was in 
disarray following the fire and significant clean up works had already been undertaken. After 
seeing CCTV footage from the day of the fire at the premises the loss adjuster added that 
the footage,  would suggest that all the waste was not kept 5m away from the building.
 
UKI said it had requested CCTV footage from the day before the fire, but this hadnt been 
provided by S. UKI declined the claim under a policy condition concerning waste material. 
It is a condition precedent to liability of the Company that:
(a) all waste (including refuse) is swept up and bagged daily;
(b) all waste kept within the building is not to be kept within 2 metres of any process using 
heat or a source of heat or ignition;
(c) while stored outside the building waste is to be kept at a distance of at least 5 metres 
from any building;
(d) all waste to be completely removed from the buildings and any adjoining and surrounding 
yards, open spaces, alleyways and walkways at the premises at least once per week.
S said the loss adjuster hadnt mentioned any concerns about the claim or that it should 
retain CCTV footage from before the fire. Ms G complained to UKI about its decision on the 
claim. She said none of the items at the rear of the premises were waste material and this 
was stored in a 20 foot metal container located well away from where the fire broke out. 
The loss adjuster responded that there were photos showing waste material near the 
premises after the fire, and so this material may well have been there at the time of the fire. 
 
UKIs loss adjusters said the claim was declined as the photos and CCTV appeared to show 
a major contributor to the fire was the storage of waste in close proximity to the building. It 
said this contravened the policy condition. UKI maintained its repudiation of the claim. 
Ms G referred Ss complaint to our service. Our investigator recommended that the 
complaint be upheld. He said that UKI hadnt investigated the claim as thoroughly as would 
be required to decline it under the policy condition. And he didnt think UKI had shown that 
waste material was the likely source of the fire. He said UKI should pay the claim.
UKI said pictures showed debris stacked in a lean-to next to the source of the fire. It said if 
the items were required for further use, they wouldnt have been put there where they were 
open to the elements. It said the items were stacked as waste and should have been kept 
away from a heat source. UKI requested an ombudsman review the complaint.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI has relied upon the policy condition concerning the storage of waste material to decline 
Ss claim. There is no suggestion that waste has been wrongly handled within Ss premises; 
UKIs decline of the claim is based upon it not being stored at least five metres from the 
building. I have looked to see if it is reasonable in all the circumstances of the claim for UKI 
to have relied on this condition, having done so I dont think it is. I will explain my reasons for 
reaching this decision.
The site of the fire at the rear of Ss premises wouldnt support forensic investigation as by 
the time of the loss adjusters inspection it had been cleaned up. S said this was necessary 
to minimise the disruption to S and I think thats reasonable. The loss adjuster did report that 
there were no portable heaters and no electrics other than an isolator switch to the wood 
burner and that it seemed likely that the wood burner was the source of the fire.
S said the material in the CCTV pictures wasnt waste. The footage from the CCTV taken at 
the time of the fire appears to show furniture under construction and equipment to make the 
furniture. This was stored within a lean-to and so benefitted from a certain amount of 
protection from the weather. S explained that it retains templates of furniture previously 
supplied so that when customers re-order these will assist with the construction of the new 
furniture. 
I have reviewed the material sent by UKI. Although this shows items at the rear of the 
property in a certain amount of disorder, I dont think it shows that they are waste items. As I 
have said, there is a certain amount of cover for the items and I think these are more likely to 
have been the templates that S described as assisting with the manufacture of customer re-
orders than debris. 
S is a retail and manufacturing business and I think the photos and CCTV evidence supports 
the remarks made on its behalf about the intention of the material that was burnt. Ive seen 
the pictures of a container further away from the premises which is specifically designated 
for waste. Ive also seen a picture of waste bagged up within that container and see no 
reason why S should also use the rear of its premises to store waste. 
Images from the day before the fire were requested by the loss adjuster, but this was almost 
a year after the fire, and I think it was reasonable that these were no longer available to S. 
From the evidence and representations I have seen, I dont think UKI has shown that the 
policy condition for the storage of waste has been breached by S. And it follows that I think it 
would be both fair and reasonable for UKI to pay this claim.
  
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. 
I require UK Insurance Limited to pay Ss claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy without further reference to the waste condition. UK Insurance 
Limited should add interest to the amount of the claim payment at a rate of 8% simple per 
year from the date that the claim was made on Ss behalf to the date it makes payment to S.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G, on behalf of 
S, to accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman