DRN-3964449
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy with the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
applied, when she handed back a car she acquired under a hire agreement.
What happened
In October 2019, Mrs P entered into a three year hire agreement to acquire a new car. The 
agreement reached maturity in October 2022 and the car was collected by MBFS recovery 
agents  who Ill refer to as B. 
B carried out an inspection at Mrs Ps property on the day the car was collected. It said the 
following damage, totalling £943.36, was outside of fair wear and tear:
1. Front screen  chipped - £338.36
2. Alloy wheel key  missing - £67.50
3. Left hand front wheel alloy  spoke damaged - £110
4. Left hand rear wheel alloy  rim damaged - £110
5. Compressor  missing - £130
6. Tyre sealant  missing - £60
7. Spare tyre  missing - £127.50
The inspection report noted that Mrs P didnt agree with the reported condition. 
In November 2022, MBFS sent Mrs P an invoice for the total cost of damage. It also 
removed the charge for the left hand front rear alloy damage and so, the damage totalled 
£833.36.
Mrs P complained to MBFS. She said the car was in immaculate condition and any damage 
should be considered as wear and tear. She said she hadnt ever seen the tyre sealant and 
compressor, but said a garage had taken this whilst the car was undergoing a service. She 
also said the car never had a spare tyre when it was supplied to her and she left the alloy 
wheel key in the glove box. She said the car was returned with lower mileage than she was 
entitled to cover and this would be reflected in the re-sale price of the car.
MBFS issued its response to Mrs Ps complaint. It said the damage charges were evident 
but agreed to remove the charge for the front screen and the spare tyre. It also confirmed it 
didnt receive any benefit from Mrs P returning the car with lower mileage than she was 
entitled to travel. So, the remaining balance owed by Mrs P for the damage identified was 
£367.50.
Unhappy with this, Mrs P referred her complaint to this service. She reiterated her complaint 
and said she disagreed that the damage identified by B at the time it collected her car was 
anything other than wear and tear. To put things right, she said she wanted MBFS to remove 
all the charges.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said he thought the charges were applied 
fairly in line with MBFSs Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) and the industry standard - The 
British Vehicle Rental & Leasing Associations (BVRLA) fair wear and tear guidelines. He 
said the charge for the spare alloy key had been removed as the key had been found by B. 
And he said because the car wasnt returned with the compressor or tyre sealant, it was fair 
for MBFS to charge for this. 
Mrs P disagreed. She said the damage to the left hand front wheel was from a stone chip 
and this should be considered as fair wear and tear. She said she never removed the tyre 
sealant and the compressor from the car and the charge for the spare tyre was only 
removed when she sent the specification of the car to MBFS. She said it had made a 
fraudulent claim for the spare tyre. 
As Mrs P disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Mrs P has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. The rules of this service allow me to do this.
Mrs P complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as 
this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mrs Ps complaint 
against MBFS. 
When reaching my decision, Im required to consider relevant industry guidance. Here, 
relevant guidance includes the guidelines on fair wear and tear published by the trade body, 
the BVRLA. This guidance is generally intended for the return of new cars at the end of the 
first leasing cycle. MBFS arent members of the BVRLA, but Ive considered the BVRLA 
guidelines alongside MBFS VRS. 
The VRS are set out in Mrs Ps hire agreement and these explain the standards that MBFS 
expected this car to meet on return. When Mrs P acquired her car under the hire agreement, 
she agreed to return the car in line with the standards set out in the VRS. And she agreed 
that MBFS would be entitled to charge her for costs of repairs and/or refurbishing the 
vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value, as compensation. 
In this case, MBFS has already removed the charges for the front screen, the alloy wheel 
key, the left hand rear wheel and the spare tyre. I havent reviewed whether these charges 
need to be removed, as both parties are in agreement they should be removed and MBFS 
has already removed the charges. So, this decision will only focus on the outstanding 
charges totalling £300 for the damage to the left hand front wheel and the charges for the 
missing compressor and tyre sealant.
Alloys 
In relation to alloys, the VRS say the following damage is acceptable:
minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge or wheel face. 
And the following is not acceptable: 
scuff chips and scratches exceeding 25mm. 
BVRLA guidance says: 
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the alloy wheel is not acceptable. 
There should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels. 
Ive looked at the photograph provided for the left hand front wheel alloy where damage was 
identified by B. The photograph shows damage to the wheel spoke. I appreciate that Mrs P 
says this should be considered as wear and tear. However, Im satisfied MBFS is entitled to charge Mrs P for the damage to the left hand front wheel alloy, as I dont consider it to be 
minor and it falls outside VRS and BVRLA guidelines on fair wear and tear.
Missing items
The VRS state that the car must be returned with everything originally supplied with the 
vehicle.
Ive reviewed the specification for the car that Mrs P has provided. TIREFIT with tyre 
inflation compressor is listed as part of the specification of the car. So Im satisfied that the 
car was supplied to Mrs P with both the tyre sealant and the compressor.
Mrs P said she hadnt ever seen the tyre sealant and compressor, but said a garage must 
have taken these whilst the car was undergoing a service. She later told our investigator this 
statement had been unambiguously interpreted and the car had never had a puncture where 
she needed to use the compressor or the tyre sealant. She said the boot cover wasnt lifted 
at inspection and she wasnt alerted to the fact these missing items would be charged. 
B has noted on the inspection report that the compressor and the tyre sealant were missing 
in the car at the time it was collected from Mrs P. As both Mrs P and B provided conflicting 
version of events about these missing items, Ive thought about what I think is most likely to 
have happened, on a balance of probabilities.
Having done so, I find Mrs Ps statements about the tyre sealant and the compressor to be 
inconsistent. I say this because her initial statement suggests the compressor and the tyre 
sealant had been taken out of the car by a garage. But her later statement suggests the 
items were in the car at the time of the inspection carried out by B. In addition, Mrs P says 
she didnt know she would be charged for the compressor or the tyre sealant. However, 
these charges are listed on Bs inspection report that Mrs P signed on the day the car was 
collected from her. And so, given Mrs P stated she disagreed with these charges, I would 
have reasonably expected her to let B know if the compressor or the tyre sealant were in the 
car at the time the inspection was carried out.
I also accept that B did incorrectly note it couldnt find the alloy key. However, it later 
confirmed it had found this and removed the charge from Mrs P. Had it also found the tyre 
sealant and compressor, I would have reasonably expected it to also remove these charges. 
However, it didnt. And so, these charges remain payable. 
Having thought about this carefully, on balance, I dont think Mrs Ps car was returned with 
the compressor or the tyre sealant. And Im satisfied B told Mrs P she would be charged for 
the missing compressor and the tyre sealant on the day it collected the car from her.
MBFS is entitled to charge Mrs P for any loss it has suffered. In this case, it says it replaced 
the tyre sealant and the compressor, as they were missing when the car was returned by 
Mrs P. So I think its fair and reasonable for MBFS to charge Mrs P for the cost of replacing 
the tyre sealant and the compressor.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman