DRN-3175802
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Scottish Widows Limited mis-sold them life assurance. They 
say their policies shouldve provided level, not decreasing, cover.
Mr M has mainly been involved with this complaint and so, my decision will largely refer to 
him only.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In 2009 Mr and Mrs M were advised by a third-party firm to set up life and critical illness 
assurance policies with Scottish Widows. Both policies provided level cover over a 22-year 
term.  
In April 2019 Mr M contacted Scottish Widows about changing the cover provided under 
their policies, as they no longer wanted the critical illness benefit. It was explained that new 
policies would have to be applied for and he was referred to the relevant team for this to be 
arranged. Two new policies were set up - with the existing two cancelled - and these 
provided decreasing life cover over a 22-year term, with an initial sum assured of £100,000. 
Upon receiving an annual plan summary in April 2021, Mr M became aware that the policies 
didnt provide level cover. He complained to Scottish Widows about this as he said 
decreasing cover wasnt what they asked for and, as they have an interest only mortgage, it 
isnt appropriate for their circumstances. Mr M was also unhappy about the lack of guidance 
from Scottish Widows about putting the policies in trust, and that he was told to speak with a 
financial adviser about doing so.   
Scottish Widows didnt uphold the complaint. In short, they said: 
The policies were set up on a non-advised basis and quotes were issued based on 
the cover they understood Mr and Mrs M wanted. They wouldnt have been able to 
see Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage details and could only arrange cover as specified by 
them. And they hadnt found anything to suggest the cover wasnt arranged as 
Mr and Mrs M requested it. 
The quotes showed the cover would be decreasing and said, The lump sum will 
initially be £100,000 and will reduce each month in line with a repayment mortgage, 
with an interest rate of 10.00% per annum.
The application summaries and policy schedules also confirmed the initial benefit 
amounts would be £100,000 and that the basis of cover was decreasing. Alongside 
the policy schedules, Mr and Mrs M were also provided with their cancellation rights 
to check everything was in line with what they wanted; and cancel them if they 
changed their minds and didnt want to proceed.
They provided Mr and Mrs M with the relevant trust forms but couldnt provide 
financial advice or advise them on trust matters. If Mr and Mrs M wanted further 
guidance about putting the policies in trust they would have needed to approach a 
financial adviser or trust specialist. 
The matter was referred to our service but our investigator didnt think Scottish Widows had 
to do anything further. In short, he said:
Hed listened to a call provided by Scottish Widows in which Mr M enquires about 
changing their existing cover. Before Mr M is transferred to the relevant department 
to arrange this, he explains hes looking to obtain life assurance quotes for £180,000 
and £100,000 of cover (with no critical illness benefit) over a 22-year term. 
Unfortunately, the sales call isnt available and Scottish Widows has explained this is 
because the relevant department (which Mr M was referred to) no longer exists. 
Because of this, their records arent complete and theres no practical way of locating 
this part of Mr Ms conversation with Scottish Widows from hundreds of other calls 
they had at the same time.
There wasnt anything to suggest Mr M was seeking, or that Scottish Widows 
provided, any financial advice. It appears Mr M was calling for specific quotes and so 
its most likely thats what Scottish Widows provided.
As financial advice wasnt provided, Scottish Widows were required to make sure 
Mr M had enough information to make an informed decision about the cover 
available and correctly follow his instructions.
He cant be sure exactly how the conversation surrounding level versus decreasing 
cover went at the time. Its possible Mr M asked for level cover and Scottish Widows 
made a mistake. But, as Mr M was looking to reduce the monthly premiums, he 
couldnt discount the possibility that he discussed decreasing cover and chose it 
because it was cheaper.
He doesnt have any evidence to show Scottish Widows made a mistake. But he took 
into consideration that there is a call available in which Scottish Widows confirmed to 
Mr M that the cover was decreasing. And that Scottish Widows sent policy 
documents explaining how decreasing cover would work. So, he thought Scottish 
Widows provided enough information to spot any errors and make a fully informed 
decision about whether to proceed with the policy.
He understood Mr Ms concerns about the lack of help and guidance he says he 
received in respect of placing the policies in trust. But he thought it was important to 
note that trusts and legacy planning are detailed legal subjects. 
Hed expect insurers to provide the means of placing the policy in trust  typically by 
completing a form. But, questions about whether or how to make these arrangements 
arent questions about the policies/cover  theyre complex legal matters which 
insurance company staff arent qualified to advice on. And so, its important that they 
dont as any mistakes could have serious consequences.
Because of this, he thought it was reasonable for Scottish Widows to refer any 
substantial questions Mr M had about placing the policies in trust to a financial 
adviser. 
Mr M disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ms dissatisfaction at realising their policies dont provide the cover he 
thought they did. I want to reassure Mr M that Ive given everything hes said careful 
consideration. But, while I know this isnt the outcome hes hoping for, for similar reasons to 
that of our investigator I dont think I can fairly hold Scottish Widows responsible for the 
wrong type of cover being set up. Ill explain why. 
There isnt, unfortunately, a recording of the sales call available. Ive noted Mr Ms 
dissatisfaction about this as he considers Scottish Widows are required to retain this for six 
years. But, as Mr M is aware, it is the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) that is best 
placed to address any concerns he may have about Scottish Widows handling of his data. I 
can only however make my decision based on the evidence that is available to me. And, in 
the absence of this call, I cant be sure what was discussed at the time. 
Mr M says that at no point did he ask for the policies to be set up on a decreasing basis. 
Instead, he wanted to reduce the sum assured and remove the critical illness benefit  
thereby lowering the premium cost. But he wanted to keep the cover on a level basis as they 
have an interest only mortgage. 
At which point, I want to explain that  as the policies were sold on a non-advised basis  
Scottish Widows werent responsible for ensuring the cover Mr and Mrs M were applying for 
was suitable for their needs. That responsibility lied with them. Scottish Widows were 
however required to provide information so that Mr and Mrs M could make an informed 
decision, and act on any instructions they received accordingly. 
It is possible that Scottish Widows set up the life assurance polices on a decreasing basis in 
error. I cant rule that out entirely. But I agree with our investigator that the call recording 
which is available is particularly relevant here. This is because, in the call, it was explained 
to both Mr and Mrs M separately that the policies they were setting up were on a decreasing 
basis. So, if this wasnt what they wanted then I think they couldve queried this at the time.
Ive also considered the literature Mr and Mrs M were provided. Im aware Mr M says this 
wasnt as clear as the annual statements which show the sum assured decreasing in a table 
format. But, even so, I think it is sufficiently clear in explaining how the policies work. For 
example, as Scottish Widows pointed out, the quotes said:
The lump sum will initially be £100,000 and will reduce each month in line with a 
repayment mortgage, with an interest rate of 10.00% per annum.
The policy schedules also confirmed the basis of cover as decreasing and indicated the 
£100,000 of cover as the initial benefit amount. Under the other important details section, 
they also said:
The Initial benefit amount above will decrease as described in the policy provisions 
assuming a mortgage interest rate of 10.00% each year.
Further to this, the application summaries that Mr and Mrs M were provided copies of 
likewise confirmed the basis of cover as decreasing.
I think its reasonable to have expected Mr and Mrs M to have read these documents. Had 
they done so, it ought to have prompted them to realise the cover wasnt what they say they 
requested. And so, if it wasnt what they wanted, they couldve queried it at this point too. I 
cant see that this happened. In the absence of anything to show otherwise, I dont think I can hold Scottish Widows 
responsible for the policies being set up on a decreasing, rather than level, basis. Theres 
nothing to show Mr and Mrs M specifically asked for level cover and Im satisfied Scottish 
Widows made it clear to them both verbally (from the available calls) and in the literature 
they provided - the type of cover they were applying for and set up. 
In relation to Mr Ms concerns about the lack of guidance and support he received from 
Scottish Widows about putting the policies in trust, Im afraid theres little more I can add to 
what our investigator has explained.
Setting up a trust is legal matter and separate to the policies/cover Scottish Widows sold.  As 
trusts can be extremely complex I would only expect suitability qualified individuals to give 
advice on them. So, although insurers (such as Scottish Widows) will help facilitate policies 
being put in trust by providing the relevant forms, theyre not obligated or required to provide 
advice on how or whether to do so. If they did, they might give wrong advice and potentially 
put themselves at risk of becoming liable in respect of future disputes. Because of this, I 
think it was reasonable for Scottish Widows to direct Mr M to a financial adviser if he needed 
guidance or help in this regard.
I realise Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed but, for the above reasons, Im not upholding 
their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman