DRN-4010929
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the service she received from Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited (RSA) in relation to her home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs H holds a home insurance policy with RSA for her building and contents. The policy 
migrated to RSA from another insurer in 2018, and was initially sold to her by her mortgage 
provider, alongside her mortgage some years earlier. 
Mrs H has told us that she paid off her mortgage a number of years ago and that she had 
asked her mortgage provider to update RSA to tell them the property was no longer 
mortgaged. But she said that until recently, her insurance policy has continued to show her 
property as mortgaged. She is unhappy with this, as she thinks its likely this has impacted 
her premiums. She said she asked RSA to arrange a pro-rata refund of any potential 
overpayments, but they refused. So, unhappy with this, she complained. 
RSA responded and explained that they were the underwriters for the policy Mrs H was 
complaining about, and so they would be dealing with the matter. They said that when the 
policy migrated across to them in 2018, Mrs Hs property was showing as mortgaged. And 
when they wrote to Mrs H prior to her renewal date in 2018, and every year since confirming 
the details they held for her, at no point were they made aware Mrs Hs property was no 
longer mortgaged. So, because theyd received no notification of any change to Mrs Hs 
circumstances, they wouldnt be issuing a refund. Unhappy with this, Mrs H referred her 
case to our service. 
An investigator considered Mrs Hs complaint but didnt recommend it was upheld. He said, 
in summary, that the records provided showed that Mrs Hs policy was recorded as 
mortgaged at the time it moved across to RSA. And at each point the policy renewed, RSA 
sent documentation to Mrs H that also showed the same. He said it was Mrs Hs 
responsibility to confirm that the information contained within the documentation was correct, 
and he could see no evidence to confirm that Mrs H had told RSA that anything had 
changed, such as her mortgage having been paid off. So he didnt think any refund was due. 
But Mrs H remained unhappy, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA have provided us with a copy of the pack that was sent to Mrs H around the time her 
policy was due for renewal in 2018, which included, among other things, the policy schedule 
and statement of facts. 
The statement of facts document produced sets out a number of details including, but not 
limited to, Mrs Hs full name, address, property type. And it sets out that the property was 
currently recorded as mortgaged. RSA have explained that this information was based on 
what they held from when the policy migrated across to them earlier that year.
The schedule then asks the customer to let them know, as soon as possible, if any of the 
details shown arent correct. It further explains that to ensure Mrs H remains fully covered, 
she should let them know about any changes to her circumstances throughout the year, 
using the key contact details within that document, which would get her through to RSA. This 
included any changes to the information shed previously provided to them, and that 
currently shown on the most recent 'Statement of Facts'.  
So, I think it was made clear around 2018 that RSA had Mrs Hs property recorded as 
mortgaged at the time the policy migrated to them, and that the policy would be renewed on 
that basis, unless Mrs H told them otherwise. I can also see that the 2019, 2021 and 2022 
renewal documents set out similar wording, showing that the property was recorded as 
mortgaged, and that Mrs H should let them know if anything had changed. 
I can also see that in 2020, Mrs H took out a new policy just prior to renewal online, and 
added some additional elements of cover. So RSA, to avoid her having a duplicate policy, 
closed down her existing policy at renewal. However, following Mrs H arranging this new 
policy, the documentation that was produced suggests again, that Mrs H had selected that 
she was a homeowner and that her property was in fact mortgaged. So, it doesnt seem 
wrong for RSA to have set up the policy on that basis again for that year either. 
Mrs H has argued that she did make it clear that her property was no longer mortgaged 
following her paying it off, and that she did this both face to face, and by phone.
Looking at her reference to the face to face contact, Mrs H has said that she was told that 
they would ensure that her insurance was updated. It appears from the evidence provided, 
that Mrs H is referring to contact that she had with her mortgage provider in branch. But as 
this case is against RSA, rather than her mortgage provider, I wont be considering the 
actions of her mortgage provider as part of this complaint, and Mrs H would need to raise 
any concerns she has about this with them directly. 
Turning to the calls, Mrs H said in response to the investigators view, that she had made 
many calls asking for her information to be updated, but the updates failed to happen and 
RSA had continued to charge her based on a mortgaged property. So, the investigator 
reached out to RSA and asked them to provide copies of any calls that they had had with 
Mrs H since taking over the policy. 
RSA have provided three calls they had with Mrs H across 2019 and 2020 in relation to her 
policy, and Ive listened to all of them. 
The first call in early 2019 relates to payment that Mrs H thought had not been taken for her 
policy. But as the call progresses, RSA were able to reassure Mrs H that the payments had 
been made. It was agreed on this call that RSA would amend Mrs Hs payment date as per 
her request, to the 16th of the month. And they confirmed when her next payments would go 
out. There was, however, no mention of her property being mortgaged or paid off. 
The next call was in late 2019, when Mrs H called up to explain that she had just arranged 
her next years policy online, and included some additional elements of cover on top of the 
renewal quote she had been provided. These included, but were not limited to, accidental 
damage and home emergency cover. 
RSA asks Mrs H if there was anything Mrs H needed to change on the policy, or on the 
statement of fact, and Mrs H confirmed that all the details were exactly the same.  RSA ask Mrs H towards the end of the call if there is anything else they can help with today, and Mrs 
H says  no, not with regards to the buildings and contents, I was just basically sending 
emails to the mortgage bit but Ill deal with that separately and RSA confirm that was right 
because they cant see her mortgage, and the call ended shortly after.  
It may be possible that the above comments regarding Mrs Hs mortgage were referring to 
the fact that it had since been paid off. But equally, within those comments, Mrs H eluded to 
the fact that the email she was sending in relation to the mortgage was not regarding her 
buildings and contents insurance. And I dont think there was anything there for either 
myself, or RSA, to reasonably conclude that she may have been referring to the fact (if she 
indeed was), that her mortgage had since been paid off. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for RSA not to probe further at this time.
The third call Ive listened to was in late 2020, shortly after Mrs H had chosen to renew her 
policy. She was asking whether further policy documentation would be sent to her. But RSA 
confirmed that the renewal documents that were sent to her included her policy documents, 
and set out her details of cover, and therefore a further copy would not be sent. RSA also 
confirmed Mrs Hs monthly payments within this call, but again there was no mention of her 
property no longer being mortgaged, or her wanting to update her policy to reflect that. 
So, on balance, Im satisfied that RSA were entitled to consider Mrs Hs property as 
mortgaged when arranging and renewing her policy, based on the answers to the questions 
at inception and renewal, and the subsequent communications that followed. 
I can also see that RSA have updated Mrs Hs details shortly before her most recent renewal 
following her complaint in October 2022, to show that her property is now owned outright. 
So, Im satisfied that RSA took the necessary action required, following Mrs H making them 
aware of the above. 
So, while I appreciate this may come as disappointment to Mrs H, for the reasons set out 
above, Im not asking RSA to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman