DRN-3780991
The complaint
Dr W complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited provided him with a poor 
service after he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
 
What happened
Dr W was in a car accident on 24 January 2022 which wasnt his fault. 
Advantage arranged for the car to be collected from Dr Ws home address, where Dr W 
showed the engineer the external damage.  
Initially Dr W was advised the car would be repaired, but a few days later he was told that it 
needed reassessing as the engineer hadnt considered all the damage. The car was then  
written off on 16 February 2022. A valuation was provided which Dr W didnt agree with, and 
on contacting Advantage, Dr W says he was told a revised valuation would follow, and he 
would have an extension of his hire car for 30 days to allow him to source a new car. 
A settlement was agreed, but by 9 March 2022, Dr W still hadnt had his settlement cheque 
and he complained. On 16 March 2022 the cheque was issued, and the car hire was 
extended by 7 days to allow Dr W to source a car. 
Dr W was unhappy about the lack of contact and updates and also that there was a delay in 
him being offered a physiotherapy appointment.
Advantage paid Dr W £50 compensation for the poor service.  
Dr W was unhappy with Advantages response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Dr Ws complaint but thought that Advantages offer was 
fair.  
Dr W disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have to decide is whether Advantage have acted fairly and reasonably and in line 
with the terms of the policy when dealing with Dr Ws claim.  
Ive carefully considered the information provided by Dr W and Advantage.  However, Im not 
upholding his complaint and I will explain why. 
When the car was collected it was only examined externally, and Dr W was initially advised 
that it was repairable. However, on further inspection the engineers decided that it was a 
total loss and advised Dr W it was to be written off. I dont agree with Dr W that this was 
unreasonable. I wouldnt expect a repairer to make a decision without fully examining the 
car, as sometimes structural repairs affecting the safety of the car arent visible and a more 
detailed inspection at the garage is needed. I can also see that Advantage did try to ring Dr 
W to discuss this but were unable to get hold of him. I appreciate that this meant that there 
was slight delay in Dr W being told about the total loss, but I dont think that delay was 
unreasonable in the circumstances. 
I can see that there was an error made in the payment of the settlement, which caused a 
slight delay. Dr W had provided his bank details and so payment should have been by bank 
transfer. However, a cheque was sent. Although this wasnt his preference, I dont consider 
that this disadvantaged him as his car hire was extended to cover this additional period, but I 
do think its fair for him to have some compensation for the error and the calls he made to 
chase this.  
I can see that Dr W thinks that the car hire should have been extended longer to allow him to 
source a car. However, it is Advantages claims handlers policy that car hire is ended seven 
days after the settlement cheque is issued. I also note that Advantage agreed a further 
seven days in view of the complaint, so I think they have acted fairly here.  
In respect of the personal injury side of the claim, I can see that Advantage referred the case 
to their solicitors, and an appointment was made for Dr W to discuss his injuries on 24 
February 2022. A course of physiotherapy was set up following that and the report was sent 
to Dr W for his instructions on 11 March 2022. Im satisfied that Advantage instructed the 
solicitors promptly. Im not able to comment on the service provided by the solicitors as its 
outside my remit. Any issues with their service would be a matter for the solicitors 
complaints manager and the Legal Ombudsman.  
 
I can appreciate that it must have been very frustrating for Dr W having to deal with a claim 
arising from an accident that wasnt his fault, and I understand that he will have wanted 
matters resolved quickly and without having to make lots of calls. However, having reviewed 
the above, whilst I think that the service fell short of what he expected, I think the £50 
already paid is fair for the inconvenience caused.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Dr Ws complaint, and I wont be asking 
Advantage Insurance Company Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman