DRN-1887617
The complaint
Mr B has complained The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc charged him fees for processing 
international cheques.
What happened
Mr B opened an account with RBS in January 2019.  In March Mr B noticed a transaction he 
didnt make and complained to both the supplier and RBS.  RBS gave Mr B a new card and 
the money was refunded.
Just after that someone paid in six US dollar cheques into Mr Bs account.  All cheques were 
made out to Mr B using his full name.  These transactions were carried out in four RBS 
branches in the south and west of England and Wales from 25 March until 1 April.  Mr B 
lives many miles away from this.  All cheques were fraudulent.  The first one was identified 
as such.  RBS called Mr B to clarify what he knew about the payment.  He told them he 
knew nothing about this cheque.  RBS warned him to change his online password.
The other cheques werent identified as fraudulent initially.  However these five cheques 
were all returned unpaid and Mr Bs account was charged with fees for paying in currency 
cheques to a sterling account and processing these.  
By this stage Mr B had stopped using his RBS account as hed lost trust in it following the 
two fraud instances.  He also wasnt opening post hed got from RBS although theyd written 
to him about the fraudulent cheques. RBS then gave Mr B 60 days notice of their intention 
to close his accounts as he was overdrawn and not responding to them (he also had a 
savings account a close relative had opened for him when hed been younger).  They were 
expecting him to repay £334.10 for the fees charged to his account.
As Mr B couldnt get RBS to agree to waive these fees, he brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.  
Our investigator felt that the evidence pointed to Mr B knowing what had been going on even 
though it was clear hed not paid in the cheques himself.  He didnt think it was fair to ask 
RBS to waive the charge.
Mr B has asked an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to our investigator.  Ill explain why.
RBS has charged Mr B a total of £334.10 for processing five US dollar currency cheques.  I 
have to decide whether what theyve done is fair and reasonable based on the evidence they 
and Mr B have provided.
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators views of 28 April and 19 May 2020. I dont intend to repeat 
everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis 
of my decision. 
Overall I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask RBS to waive the charges made 
to Mr Bs account. Although I dont think for one minute that Mr B paid in the cheques to his 
own account, I think its more likely than not that he knew something was going on, even if 
he wasnt aware of all of the details. His actions lead me to think this. Specifically:
Theres no explanation of how somebody would have known Mr Bs online banking 
details.  Records show a further device was set up using Mr Bs online banking 
details in March (sometime before his card was used fraudulently). Mr B has told us 
he hasnt shared his details with anybody and has confirmed he has only one mobile.  
But I cant see how someone would have randomly known his details and set up 
another device without Mr B sharing his details first.  
After the first cheque was identified as potentially fraudulent, RBS suggested Mr B 
change his online password.  Although he told us he thought he did do that, that 
doesnt match Mr Bs account records.
The cheques were made out to Mr B.  Not just using his initials but his full name.  As 
his full name wasnt on his own debit card, I am left to wonder how an unknown third 
party would have known this.
Although Mr B wasnt using his account, he was still logging on  using his own 
mobile  regularly in late March and April.  This suggests he was checking for 
something.  I suspect he was checking to see whether the cheques  or other funds 
that may have been expected  had been credited to his account.
Paying in foreign currency cheques isnt a quick business.  It will always take time for 
those items to be cleared, processed and paid out even when the cheques are 
genuine.  Its likely because of the time that was going to be taken for any funds to 
credit Mr Bs account that any fraudster would have made sure they had access to 
the account for the whole period it was required. This fits with both Mr B and whoever 
was also accessing his account online both logging in regularly throughout.
I doubt if Mr B knew all the specifics of what was going on but the evidence suggests hed 
allowed someone  whether voluntarily or been persuaded to do so  to use his current 
account.  This would enable fraudulent funds to be paid into the account which a fraudster 
would then be able to transfer elsewhere.
On his behalf, Mr Bs father has wondered why RBS failed to spot the foreign currency 
cheques earlier.  This is a valid question and I have wondered the same.  I certainly wouldnt 
expect RBS to wonder why cheques were being paid into a branch hundreds of miles of 
Mr Bs own branch.  Lots of people use a bank branch miles from their home branch. All the 
cheques were paid into deposit machines in different branches so it seems a fraudster was 
trying to minimise being spotted.  But foreign currency cheques arent the most frequent 
branch transaction and these were all reasonably high-value  all were for more than 
$4,000.  So I think that I may have expected the two branches that were used twice to have 
noticed the pair of cheques that were paid into their branches, albeit on separate days.
So Ive considered whether that means that RBS should have done more.  Perhaps they 
should have but overall I dont think this would have made any difference.  Mr B was already 
aware that a cheque had been identified as fraudulent and hadnt taken the steps suggested 
to protect his account.  Im not sure hed have treated further advice in any different manner.Overall I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed but I dont think it would be fair to ask RBS to 
waive the charge they levied on him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman