DRN-3860747
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that with Saga services Limited because he lost cover for diabetes by 
switching to it back in 2015. 
What happened
Mr T switched his private medical cover to Saga in 2015. He said at the time he had cover 
with another provider for a lengthy period of time and that whilst he was on cover with that 
insurer, he was diagnosed with diabetes in 2005. Mr T said that when he switched to Saga in 
2015, he wasnt told that hed be losing cover for his diabetes. He accepted this was written 
within the policy terms, however, he was led to believe the exclusion didnt apply to him. 
Mr T said is wasnt made sufficiently clear, despite having phone conversations with Saga at 
the time. Mr T said this became clear when he claimed for his cataracts treatment  which 
wasnt covered by his policy. Mr T would like Saga to provide like for like cover as this was 
what he thought he had. 
Saga said this was a non-advised sale, meaning it wouldnt have given advice about the 
policy before he decided to take it. It also said the calls from 2015 are unavailable given the 
passage of time thats lapsed. Saga said the policy documents made it clear that it doesnt 
cover treatment related to diabetes, or cataracts and said the policy wasnt mis-sold on that 
basis. 
Our investigator agreed with Saga. He said its difficult to know what was discussed at the 
time because the calls were no longer available. However, he said based on the available 
evidence, he didnt think Saga had done anything wrong because the policy documentation 
was clear in that it didnt provide cover for the conditions Mr T has. 
Mr T, unhappy with this, asked for an ombudsman to decide his case. He still believes Saga 
were wrong to allow him to switch policies because this wasnt like for like  which is what he 
said he was promised. And so, its for me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for the same reasons explained by our 
investigator. Thats not to say I dont believe Mr T, its simply that I must base my decision on 
the evidence available. And although I take on board Mr Ts testimony and strength of 
feeling about the sale of the policy, theres not enough persuasive evidence to support his 
version of events. Ill explain why. 
The two calls Mr T referred to surrounding the sale of the policy are unavailable. These 
would have been key pieces of evidence, but without them, I must consider the remaining 
evidence. The policy terms and the other policy information sent at the time are clear that 
diabetes is not covered by this policy. The terms say;
If you have the following pre-existing condition: Diabetes - we will not pay for treatment of 
the following specified condition/s - Diabetes; Ischaemic Heart Disease; Cataract; Diabetic 
Retinopathy; Diabetic Renal Disease; Arterial Disease; Stroke
It's because of this Im satisfied Sagas policy doesnt offer cover in the circumstances. 
Theres no tangible evidence of Mr T being told anything to the contrary here and so Im less 
persuaded by his testimony that he was effectively told to ignore those clauses. 
Ive thought about whether Saga acted negligently towards Mr T by allowing him to take its 
policy, given Mr Ts comments that he was effectively relinquishing cover for his diabetes, 
but Im not persuaded its made a mistake here either. Ive not seen any evidence to say this 
was an advised-sale and so there was no obligation on Saga to ensure Mr Ts policy offered 
like for like cover. 
Having said that, Sagas responsibility under ICOBS (the Insurance Code of Business 
Sourcebook) was to ensure Mr T was provided with clear and non-misleading information 
about the product and Im satisfied it did this because it sent him the relevant policy 
information which detailed the limitations under the terms. I also note Mr T was sent all 
relevant information at renewal each year. And so, whilst I take on board Mr Ts frustrations 
here, I dont think Saga did anything wrong because theres no evidence to support that 
argument. The information was clear and non-misleading and so without any persuasive 
evidence to say otherwise, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman