DRN-4253008
The complaint
Mr B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) continued to charge interest on 
his credit card debt and chase him for payment despite him being in a payment plan.
What happened
Mr B held a credit card account with RBS. In 2022, he entered into a token payment plan 
with the help of a debt charity. Under this plan, he was going to make a nominal payment 
towards his credit card debt each month. He says that RBS wasnt supposed to charge him 
interest or chase him for payment while the plan was in place. But he says it continued to do 
so. He says he wrote to RBS but never received a response. 
Mr B made a complaint and asked this service to look at it. He says the situation has been 
stressful and frustrating and that hes worse off financially due to the ongoing interest and 
charges. He also says that his credit file has been negatively impacted. 
But RBS says it hasnt charged Mr B interest since March 2022, when the plan was put in 
place. It says it did write to Mr B, although it accepts that its letters didnt specifically refer to 
the token payment plan. It says the letters were regulatory letters which were generated as a 
result of the plan. RBS says it issued a default notice in June 2022 and subsequently 
defaulted the account. It says that the default was registered on Mr Bs credit file in August 
2022.
Our Investigator didnt think RBS had done anything wrong. But Mr B didnt agree and asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS says that the token payment plan was put in place in March 2022. From the information 
Ive seen, Im satisfied thats the case. I note that Mr B made a nominal payment to the 
account towards the end of March. 
RBS says it hasnt charged Mr B any interest since his March 2022 statement. I note that 
some of the collections letters from RBS say that interest will continue to accrue on the debt 
until it is repaid in full. But, having seen Mr Bs statements, Im satisfied that RBS didnt 
actually charge him any interest or other fees after March 2022. I think that was fair. 
Mr B says that RBS continued to chase him for payment despite the token payment plan. 
Having a payment plan like this in place doesnt mean a creditor cant take further action to 
recover a debt. So, it wasnt necessarily unreasonable if RBS continued to contact Mr B 
about the debt. But Ill consider the specific steps taken here to decide if RBS acted fairly.
 
Mr B says he received a letter from RBS in March 2022. I find that this was a notice of sums 
in arrears, sent under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Its not clear to me whether the token 
payment plan had started by the date of this letter. But, even if it had, I think it was 
reasonable for RBS to send the letter to Mr B. Thats because Mr B had missed two 
payments by this time, so RBS was obliged to give him notice of the arrears.
Mr B says he replied to RBS in April. I havent seen a copy of this letter, but I dont doubt that 
Mr B sent it. He says he queried the charges and referred to the token payment plan, 
commenting that his financial situation shouldnt be made worse. Mr B says he didnt hear 
from RBS until it sent him another letter at the end of June. I find that this was a default 
notice sent under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
The covering letter which RBS sent with the default notice said thank you for telling us that 
you are unable to correct the position on your account because of financial problems. Mr B 
says he wasnt sure what this meant. Although I havent seen his letter to RBS from April, I 
think its likely that RBS understood it to be saying that he wasnt able to pay the arrears and 
bring his account up to date, which is what the arrears letter was asking him to do. So, I think 
the June letter was a response to what Mr B had said.
The June letter said that RBS thought the best course of action was to withdraw Mr Bs 
credit card facility. It enclosed the default notice, which it was required to give him before it 
could terminate his credit card agreement. I think this was reasonable. Although Mr B had 
entered into a token payment plan, the payments under this were substantially less than 
what was required under the credit card agreement. I find that RBS was entitled to continue 
with its usual collections and recoveries process. And I think it was reasonable for it to treat 
the account as in default given the level of arrears and all the circumstances here. 
I find that RBS followed the correct procedure by sending Mr B a default notice. This gave 
Mr B time to bring the account up to date. Mr B says he replied to RBS in July querying its 
letter and again mentioning the token payment plan. Shortly afterwards, he received a 
further letter from RBS telling him that his account had been terminated. I think that was 
reasonable. Mr B wasnt able to clear the arrears and bring the account up to date, so RBS 
defaulted the account and terminated the agreement. This is what the default notice had said 
would happen. RBS then transferred Mr Bs account to its debt recovery department, which I 
think was reasonable.
RBS says it recorded the default on Mr Bs credit file. Its important that credit files accurately 
record a persons financial situation, so Id expect RBS to report the default to the Credit 
Reference Agencies.
Mr B is concerned about the effect on his credit file. I havent seen a copy of his credit file. 
But Id expect it to reflect the fact that he was making reduced payments to his credit card 
debt and that the account was subsequently defaulted. I havent seen anything to suggest 
that RBS made any errors in the way it reported the account.
In conclusion, I dont think RBS made any mistakes or acted unfairly. Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr B, but Im not going to ask RBS to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Katy KiddOmbudsman