DRN-1588876
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc unfairly blocked his accounts for several months. 
He says this has caused him financial difficulties and he wants Barclays to remove the 
blocks so that he can access his funds.
What happened
Mr M has two accounts with Barclays.  
In July 2019, Barclays reviewed Mr Ms accounts. Whilst it completed its review it placed 
blocks on both accounts. This meant Mr M couldnt access any money in the accounts. 
Mr M says he discovered the accounts were blocked when he tried to pay for a family meal 
at a restaurant and one of his bank cards was declined. He says as a result of the blocks he 
and his wife have had to borrow money from friends and relatives in order to pay bills and 
direct debits have been returned unpaid. Hes explained that he hasnt done anything wrong 
and the money in his accounts represent his hard work and savings. 
Mr M complained to Barclays. In response, it said its not obliged to enter any discussion 
with Mr M to explain its decision to block the account. And says it acted in accordance with 
its legal and regulatory obligations. Unhappy with this response, and the length of time 
Barclays had blocked his accounts, Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator explained Barclays werent required to provide their reasons for the block of 
the account. He was satisfied Barclays had acted fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the accounts. And that Barclays had followed its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it applied the blocked and reviewed the account. So, he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr M disagreed. He says whilst he accepts the bank can block and review his accounts, it 
has blocked the accounts for too long. And beyond the time limit it is permitted. He wants 
Barclays to remove the blocks and allow him access to his funds. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr is upset. Im sorry this experience has been frustrating and no 
doubt upsetting. But for me to uphold this complaint, I have to think Barclays has done 
something wrong. And in this case, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of 
an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to review and sometimes block customers accounts. Barclays have said that Mr Ms accounts were 
reviewed and blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Having looked at all the available information and circumstances of this particular complaint, 
Im satisfied that the bank was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations when it 
reviewed and blocked the accounts. So, I cant say it has done anything wrong. The terms 
and conditions of Mr Ms accounts also permit Barclays to review an account.
The crux of Mr Ms complaint is the length of time his accounts have been blocked. But as 
Ive already explained businesses have a legal obligation to comply with various laws and 
regulations. And Im satisfied that Barclays have blocked Mr Ms accounts in order to comply 
with these obligations. I do accept that Barclays so far has taken a relatively lengthy period 
of time to review Mr Ms account. But I do not consider that it would be right for me to 
conclude it should not have taken in excess of any particular or specific timeframe. Because 
the bank is entitled to do what its done in order to comply with its legal and regulatory 
obligations. So, I cant say Barclays has done anything wrong by continuing to block Mr Ms 
accounts.   
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr M feels about whats happened. But overall, based 
on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Barclays have acted unreasonably and treated him 
unfairly when it blocked his accounts. So, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman