DRN-4029819
The complaint
Mrs I complains about how Capital One (Europe) plc has dealt with her account.
What happened
Mrs I says Capital One has sold her account debt to a third-party business. She questions if 
she owes the debt and says Capital One only made one attempt to speak to her about the 
account. Mrs I would like the debt written off and says she has another Capital One account 
which is still open. She says she has been caused distress by Capital Ones actions and 
says it initially wrote to her about her open account.
Capital One says Mrs I opened the account in 2016 and it wrote to her in 2017 about missed 
payments. It says it sent default letters to Mrs I and later defaulted the account in October 
2017. Capital One says it later sold the debt in 2019 which it says it was entitled to do in line 
with account terms and conditions. It says it tried to speak with Mrs I, sent her numerous 
letters about the debt and sent her an income/expenditure form which was not returned.
Mrs I brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Capital One had sent a number of letters about the debt to Mrs I and had updated its 
records for her address changes. The investigator thought Capital One was entitled to 
default the account.
Mrs I doesnt accept that view and says she thought the later account was part of the first 
account. She says no attempt was made to e-mail her and says she was in a difficult 
financial situation at the time. Mrs I also says Capital One should be dealing with her and not 
the collection business.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
I have looked carefully at Capital Ones records and can see that Mrs I opened the second 
account in 2016 and ought reasonably to have known it was a second account, not linked to 
the first account. I think it unlikely Capital One would have opened the account unless Mrs I 
applied for it, and it was her choice to have two accounts.
I can see that Mrs I didnt make required monthly payments that she was obliged to do so in 
line with agreed account terms and conditions. And that Capital One sent her numerous 
letters about the debt and told her that it would default the account unless payments were 
made. Im satisfied that Capital One did speak with Mrs I about the account and made an 
attempt to speak with her on the telephone. So, Im satisfied that this was Mrs Is account 
and that it was her responsibility to manage it. Im also satisfied that she ought reasonably to 
have been aware of the debt as Capital One wrote to her and she would have known she 
hadnt made required payments following spending on the account. 
It follows that I dont think Capital One made a mistake or acted unfairly by registering a 
default in October 2017. I think by that stage the relationship between the parties had broken 
down and that a number of letters about the debt had been sent with payments not made. I 
also think that Capital One was entitled in line with agreed account terms and conditions to 
sell the debt to a third party as it did in 2019.
I appreciate Mrs I says she was in financial difficulties at the time and was for a time 
homeless. I am sorry to have read that but think it was her responsibility to speak to Capital 
One and complete required means forms so that it could assist her. I can see that Mrs I was 
able to manage the other account. 
I appreciate Mrs I will be disappointed with my decision, but Im satisfied she opened the 
second account and was responsible for managing it. I cant see any evidence that the debt 
is incorrect and not owed by Mrs I or that Capital One didnt reasonably make her aware of 
the missed payments and debt. I cant fairly order Capital One write off this debt as Mrs I 
would like in those circumstances.
I appreciate Capital One wrote to Mrs I about the current older account when she first wrote 
to it. I dont think that issue was significant and that Capital One corrected the position. And I 
can see the current account number was mentioned in Mrs Is letter which would have 
caused the confusion.
I can see that Mrs I says she may be owed money by Capital One about a separate issue. I 
make clear that I cant consider that issue and it would be for Mrs I to raise that with Capital 
One. I find it has nothing to do with this complaint or is relevant to my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman