DRN-3379669
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited administered a fixed sum loan 
agreement hed taken out to pay for windows and doors. 
Mr H has brought the complaint with a representative but, to keep things simple, Ill mainly 
refer to Mr H. 
What happened
Mr H entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook in February 2020 to pay for 
windows and doors, from a company Ill refer to as W. W came out at the beginning of March 
to install the windows and doors, and work was carried out over one and half days. The 
fitters were unable to complete the job as they didnt have the correct handles for Mr Hs 
garden room. Mr H says the fitters were due to come back around a week later, so he signed 
a handover sheet and satisfaction note on that understanding. When the fitters didnt show 
up, he contacted W and an agreement was made they would come back towards the end of 
the month. 
There was some confusion around the dates W was due to come back out. And W said as a 
result of the Government imposed lockdown for Covid-19 it was unable to attend Mr Hs 
property to fit the handles. But it was able to come out to resolve another matter. 
Mr H has explained not having the handles installed meant he couldnt use the garden room. 
He wanted to use it as an office. He had to keep goods such as the desk, computers and 
files in his bungalow while he couldnt use it. And he had to wait to have it plastered. So he 
complained to W. He was also unhappy that Shawbrook started taking payments when the 
work hadnt been completed. He thought it was unfair he was being charged interest for the 
period. 
It looks like the handles were fitted in July 2020. But Mr H remained unhappy and brought 
the complaint to our service. As the handles had been fitted, Shawbrook didnt think it 
needed to take any action. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt make any recommendations. He 
thought there likely was a breach of contract because the handles werent fitted until July 
2020. But he thought the breach of contract had been remedied when that happened. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr H had lost out financially by Shawbrook taking payments 
before the handles had been fitted because the term of the loan had not changed. He also 
acknowledged it would have been inconvenient and frustrating for Mr H not having the work 
completed in March 2020. He thought about what Shawbrook could be held liable for under 
section 75 of the 1974 Consumer Credit Act (CCA). But he didnt think he could fairly ask it 
to pay compensation in relation to non-financial losses. 
Mr H didnt agree. He highlighted W didnt have any handles for the door when it initially 
came to install the windows and doors. And that the contract stipulated works would be 
completed before the end of March 2020. He also highlighted Ws contract and Shawbrooks 
agreement that said funds wouldnt be taken until the goods had been supplied. Mr H said 
he spoke to Shawbrook about this and was told it would contact W. He didnt want to cancel 
the direct debit because it would affect his credit rating. 
Mr H tells us its been inconvenient and costly having to raise the complaint. And that he 
should be able to claim redress regardless of how small the financial loss is. Further, Mr H 
says that it would have been helpful not to have been paying at the time due to the impact 
on his finances as a result of Covid-19.
As things couldnt be resolved, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. I 
arranged for both parties to be contacted because I agreed thered been a breach of 
contract. And that I thought the breach had impacted Mr H. So I asked Shawbrook to take 
this into account. Shawbrook agreed to offer Mr H £200. But Mr H didnt accept it. He 
thought the compensation should be higher. And highlighted again the cost of having to raise 
the complaint as well as the time and energy hed put in. 
I arranged for the parties to be told that I thought the offer was fair. And asked for any final 
responses to this before I reached a decision. Neither party has provided anything further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr H 
and Shawbrook that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, 
its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the 
key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Mr H paid for the windows and doors using a fixed sum loan agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and our service is able to consider complaints relating to these 
sorts of agreements. 
I take into account the relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 of the CCA makes 
Shawbrook responsible for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier under 
certain conditions.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is also relevant to this complaint. Mr H paid for goods 
and services using the fixed sum loan from Shawbrook. The goods being the windows and 
doors, and the service being the installation.
The CRA implies terms into the contract that goods supplied will be of satisfactory quality, fit 
for their intended purpose and as described. It says traders must perform the service with 
reasonable care and skill. The CRA also sets out what remedies are available to consumers 
if statutory rights under a goods or services contract are not met. 
In Mr Hs case, I agree there was a breach of contract. The handles werent supplied initially. 
Mr H expected W to return within a few days or at least be finished by the end of March 
2020. That didnt happen. And it took until July 2020 for the handles to be fitted. It mustve 
been very frustrating having to wait for this to happen. Im sure it took away some of the pleasure of having the new windows and doors installed. I agree that having the handles 
fitted in July remedied the breach of contract. But I also think the time taken to complete the 
works had an impact on Mr H. 
I thought about the impact of not having the handles. Mr H explained he was unable to enter 
the office at all. Not being able to enter it meant he couldnt get it plastered and install the 
electrics which hed planned for. It also meant that everything he had for the office had to be 
stored in his bungalow. So I do think it was inconvenient for him. Compensation for distress 
and inconvenience is limited with this type of complaint. I can consider Shawbrooks liability 
for a like claim against W for a breach of contract. But to do that, I need to think about what 
a court might award against W in similar circumstances. Courts do consider whats known as 
general damages. But awards in building cases where distress and inconvenience have 
been caused tend to be modest. 
However, given the work wasnt completed on time, as set out in the contract, and taking into 
account how long it took to be completed, I think Mr H has a valid claim for a remedy. I think 
that a price reduction would be a fair way to resolve things. Which is what I explained to 
Shawbrook.
Theres no exact science to use when calculating compensation in this case. And Im mindful 
Covid-19 likely played a part here. There was a government-imposed lockdown around the 
time of the works. And W said that due to the lockdown it couldnt come out sooner to fit the 
handles. But it came out for another reason. So I can understand why this would seem 
confusing and rather contradictory. However, in all the circumstances, I think that £200 is a 
fair amount of compensation. Im not going to direct Shawbrook to increase this.
Mr H also requests interest is removed for the time he was paying the loan, and while the 
works had not been fully completed. Indeed, hes referred to terms in the contract that say 
payment would not be taken until that happened. So I can understand his point here. But Im 
mindful that, like our investigator pointed out, Mr H isnt being asked to pay more interest 
than he always would have been due to pay. The agreement happened to start a few 
months sooner than it probably should have done. But theres no financial loss in relation to 
this. 
Shawbrook likely started taking payments because Mr H signed the handover and 
satisfaction notice. Its unfortunate the works werent completed shortly afterwards. Ive dealt 
with the impact of that above. But, in any event, Im not going to direct Shawbrook to refund 
interest. And I dont see any need to direct Shawbrook to refund the payments made prior to 
July 2020 and then retrospectively start the agreement from that point in time, which is 
essentially what Mr H thinks should have happened.  
Ive finally thought about how Shawbrook has dealt with things generally. Its important to 
note Shawbrook is a different entity to W. Mr H says he spoke to Shawbrook in March 2020 
to tell it about the situation, but Ive not seen a record of this. And Shawbrook hasnt been 
able to provide evidence. What I can see though is that Mr H was in touch with W trying to 
resolve things direct with it. And I can see he complained to Shawbrook at the end of June 
2020. It looks like Shawbrook were under the impression things were getting resolved as the 
works were completed in July. Given the breach of contract was resolved within a couple of 
weeks of the complaint being raised, from what I can see, I dont think Shawbrook acted 
unfairly with regards to handling the claim. 
Im also mindful that Covid-19 would have affected Shawbrook as well around this time. But I 
can understand why Mr H would have been unhappy Shawbrook didnt respond to the 
complaint sooner, been clearer about exactly what was wrong, and under which contract. However, given the core issue seems to have been resolved in July 2020 I dont think I need 
to direct Shawbrook to take any action as a result of that.  
Mr H has also highlighted the cost and inconvenience of having to raise the complaint. When 
pursuing a complaint, a consumer is always put to some level of inconvenience. Ive not 
seen something to suggest Mr H was put to a great deal more trouble than would be 
expected. 
Therefore, in all the circumstances, I think a fair way to resolve the complaint is for 
Shawbrook to pay Mr H £200 compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Shawbrook Bank Limited to pay 
Mr H £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman