DRN-1936481
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain UK Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined their claim for the 
cancellation of their holiday.
What happened
Mr A visited his GP for a routine appointment on 7 May 2019. His GP noticed a possible sign 
of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and referred Mr A for tests. 
Mr A underwent a chest x-ray on 8 May and a lung function test on 7 June 2019.
On 10 June 2019, Mr and Mrs A booked a holiday abroad to take place in September 2019.
In July 2019, Mr A was diagnosed with a lung lesion and was booked to undergo surgery the 
following month. Mr A was advised to cancel his holiday because of this, so he and Mrs A 
made a claim against their travel insurance. 
Mr and Mrs As policy includes the following cancellation terms. 
Section A Cancelling Your Trip (before you are due to start your trip)
What is not covered
We will not cover:
any claim that is the result of a pre-existing medical condition. This exclusion will not 
apply if that pre-existing medical condition had already been declared to us and 
accepted by us in writing;
And the policy defines pre-existing medical condition as follows. 
Pre-existing medical condition - any medical condition for which, at the date you 
became an insured person or the date when you booked your trip, whichever is later, 
you:
had received advice, medication or treatment from a doctor during the last 12 
months;
were under investigation or awaiting diagnosis;
UKI reviewed the claim and requested information from Mr As GP. The surgery confirmed 
Mr A had visited his GP on 7 May 2019, and was booked for a lung function test on 7 June 
2019. 
Mr A sent UKI evidence showing hed had a chest x-ray on 8 May 2019. And this stated the 
results were normal, and Mr A had been informed of no further action. He said hed seen his 
GP in early May for a routine appointment and the GP had noticed Mr A had clubbed nails, 
and referred him for an x-ray and to see a specialist. He said it wasnt until the end of July, 
that he found out he had a lesion on his lung. 
UKI declined the cancellation claim. It said the medical evidence itd seen showed Mr A was 
referred for investigation due to suspected COPD, before he booked his holiday. It said this 
meant Mr A was under investigation for a medical condition during the 12 months before the 
holiday was booked, so the claim wasnt covered by the policy. 
Unhappy with UKIs response, Mr and Mrs A brought their complaint to this service. 
Mr and Mrs A said the GP had made a mistake in the information provided to UKI. They said 
they didnt become aware Mr A was under investigation for COPD until they received a letter 
on 9 July 2019, after Mr A had seen a respiratory doctor. 
Mr and Mrs A provided a copy of the letter dated 9 July, which refers to an examination 
which took place on 3 July 2019 with the respiratory doctor. The doctor referred to Mr A 
having been referred by his GP and an x-ray which took place in May 2019. And the letter 
said Mr A was being referred for further tests.
UKI reviewed the letter and said it hadnt made a difference to its decision to decline the 
claim. It said Mr As GP had confirmed the clubbing of the nails  a potential sign of COPD  
was first noticed at an appointment on 7 May 2019, which was before Mr and Mrs A booked 
their holiday.
An investigator here looked into what had happened and said she didnt think UKI had done 
anything wrong. 
UKI made no comments on the investigators view. And Mr and Mrs A disagreed with it and 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say UKI has a responsibility 
to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
When UKI first contacted Mr As GP, it was told hed had a routine appointment on 7 May 
2019, and due to the GP noticing Mr A had clubbed nails, he was referred for tests.
When Mr As GP completed a medical certificate, it told UKI his condition was diagnosed on 
29 July 2019. And in terms of the condition which caused the claim, the GP stated 
investigations for lung lesion following possible COPD diagnosis. And said Mr As 
symptoms first presented on 9 June 2019.
UKI contacted Mr As GP to clarify the information provided within the medical certificate. 
The GP confirmed again that Mr A first presented with the condition that caused the 
cancellation on 9 June 2019. And the GP said Mr A was referred to a respiratory clinic for 
suspected COPD on that date. Mr and Mrs A dispute the accuracy of information provided by Mr As GP. Theyve said 9 
June 2019 is not the date of an appointment Mr A had. And they said this date was 
a Sunday, so the surgery was closed. However, this date has been confirmed on both the 
medical certificate and the follow up letter from Mr As GP surgery, in answer to UKIs 
questions. 
I accept 9 June 2019 was a Sunday, and its unlikely that Mr A had an appointment on that 
day. But Ive also considered that the GP surgery confirmed Mr A had a lung function test 
two days earlier, on 7 June 2019. So I think its most likely that 9 June was the date the GP 
decided to make a further referral for Mr A, rather than the date of an appointment. 
However, I dont think whether or not Mr A saw his GP on 9 June makes a difference to the 
outcome of this complaint. I say this because Mr A confirmed in a letter to UKI dated 17 
October 2019, that he was referred for an x-ray and to see a specialist following an 
appointment with his GP in early May 2019. He said the GP had noticed he had clubbed 
nails and said this was a possible symptom of COPD, and this prompted Mr As referrals. 
This mirrors the information Mr As GP surgery provided when first contacted by UKI. So 
based on this, Im persuaded Mr A was aware he was under investigation for a medical 
condition, prior to booking his holiday on 10 June 2019. 
Its not in dispute that at the time of booking his holiday, Mr A was unaware of the diagnosis 
of a lesion on his lung and the surgery he would later need to have. However, the terms of 
his policy required him to tell UKI of any pre-existing condition for which he was under 
investigation, or awaiting diagnosis, at the time of booking his trip. 
Mr A has evidenced he was advised the chest x-ray he had on 8 May 2019 was clear, and 
that there was to be no further action in relation to this. Ive considered this, however, Mr A 
was also booked in for a lung function test to take place on 7 June 2019, two days before he 
booked his holiday. And he confirmed in addition to the x-ray, he knew he was being referred 
to see a specialist. So Im not persuaded that the comment of no further action in relation to 
the x-ray result, evidences that Mr A was told no further action was being taken at all, in 
regard to investigating his health. 
Im satisfied that at the time of booking his trip, Mr A was aware he was under investigation 
for an undiagnosed medical condition. And it was the outcome of that investigation that led 
to Mr and Mrs A needing to cancel their holiday. So because of this, I dont think UKIs 
decision to decline the claim was unfair. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And 
I make no award against UK Insurance Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman