DRN-3353753
The complaint
Ms E is unhappy Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisers Limited (Chase de Vere) 
charged her for new advice on existing investments as this isnt something she agreed or 
knew about. Additionally, shes unhappy she didnt receive income from investment funds 
which she had expected following Chase de Veres recommendations.
Ms E also complains Chase de Vere failed to transfer her stocks and shares ISA to a 
separate platform when they took over management of her portfolio. She said this meant 
commission continued to be paid to her previous advisor.
Additionally, Ms E is unhappy she didnt receive the enhanced level of service which she 
paid for as she didnt receive fund alerts, e-newsletters or budget updates.
What happened
The background of this complaint has been set out previously and isnt disputed by the 
parties. Briefly, Ms E instructed Chase de Vere in February 2018. She had her first 
annual review in May 2019. Following this review, Ms E raised several points during 
complaint correspondence. She said: 
A copy of the client service agreement should have been given to her during the 
initial meeting, she did not receive the client service agreement letter and she did not 
agree to an additional fee for new advice on existing investments;
The stocks and shares ISA wasnt transferred to the new platform with the new pay 
structure, so commission continued to be paid to her previous advisors;
She didnt receive income as expected from some of her funds; and
She didnt receive the enhanced level of service because she had received no alerts, 
e-newsletters or budget updates.
Chase de Vere responded to the complaint in September 2019 and met with Ms E in 
November. They didnt uphold the complaint and set out their reasons why. So, Ms E asked 
us to investigate. The Investigator issued his view explaining why he felt the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. Ms E didnt accept the Investigators view. She was very concerned 
about the service which was provided and set out her reasons for this. 
On 25 February 2022, I issued a provisional decision. I said: 
Accumulation/Income Funds
Chase de Vere say that the investment was set to accumulate rather than to 
produce income as a result of an error by their administration team. This meant 
returns were reinvested rather than paid out to Ms E. I have reviewed the 
recommendation letter from 14 February 2018, and I agree that Ms E expected to 
receive income from funds she was invested in. She expected to receive 
approximately £2,300 but has told us she only received around £300. Therefore, I 
do agree something went wrong here.
However, Im not persuaded Ms E has suffered a financial loss. I appreciate what 
she has said about drawing down on her savings to make up the shortfall. However, 
I can see from the recommendation letter that she expected to receive the majority 
of her income from investments held within a discounted gift trust (DGT). Also, the 
returns were reinvested. Therefore, Ms E has still experienced a benefit even if this 
wasnt in the way she expected. Additionally, I cant see the problem was raised 
until after the review in April 2019. Therefore, Im unable to conclude Ms E has 
suffered a financial loss.
Ive reviewed Ms Es email to the adviser which was sent on 1 May 2019. She 
asked what had happened because she thought she had switched the previous 
year. Chase de Vere responded on 14 May and explained that it seemed the old 
funds were not switched into income share classes and only one of the funds was 
paying out. The advisor explained that he could investigate this, and hed move all 
the other funds to income share classes. There was further correspondence about 
this including an email from the advisor on 28 May when he confirmed she would 
get confirmation from the platform once the switches had happened.
In the email from 28 May 2019, the advisor also confirmed he had passed the issue 
to the complaints team. On 10 July Ms E contacted the advisor to let him know she 
hadnt heard anything from the complaints department, and she hadnt received 
notification to confirm she would now be receiving income. The advisor responded 
the following day and confirmed that the investments were switched, and she could 
expect to receive income in July. He also confirmed he would chase up the 
complaints team.
On 15 July 2019, Chase de Vere wrote to Ms E to explain there had been an error, 
but this had been corrected and there was no financial loss. I can see the letter did 
come from someone in the complaints team and Im satisfied they sought to 
respond to the issues raised and an investigation had occurred. So, I dont think 
Chase de Vere have done anything wrong in respect of responding to the issues 
raised. Although this particular letter may have taken longer than Ms E expected, 
the correspondence shows the advisor already sought to address and correct the 
concerns raised in a timely manner.
Overall, I do agree something went wrong here and that Ms E didnt receive the 
income she had expected from these funds. I appreciate what she has said about 
having to draw down on capital. But I cant see it was raised with the business 
before the annual review and I also recognise she expected to receive a more 
significant amount of income from the investments she held within her DGT.
Charges
Ive reviewed the client services agreement which was signed during the initial 
meeting on 12 February 2018. Ms E has said she didnt receive a copy of this until 
May 2019. She also says she signed the first page and the fees werent 
transparent. However, at the top of the service agreement Chase de Vere stated the service agreement and terms of business made up their contract with Ms E. 
Also, that Ms E should ensure she reads both documents before consenting. I can 
see she signed this document and Im minded to say she understood what 
documents were relevant to engaging the service of Chase de Vere and could 
have requested them at any time. I cant see she did.
Chase de Vere have also provided a copy of a letter dated 14 February 2018, 
which Ms E explained she did not receive. Ive checked the address and can see it 
was correct. The advisor also confirmed that he recalled drafting the letter. I 
appreciate what Ms E has said about the advisors assistant who would have been 
responsible for sending it. But on balance Im satisfied its likely it was sent as it is 
usual for assistants to send out correspondence drafted by advisors. Also, Im 
content it was drafted at the time and dated correctly.
As Ms E says, I appreciate it would have been helpful if they had sent it recorded 
delivery. But I dont think it is unreasonable they didnt. As Chase de Vere have 
explained, it would not be commercially viable to send all such post to clients via 
recorded delivery. Moreover, I can see the service agreement was referenced in 
later correspondence including financial planning reports sent in March and May 
2018. So, I think Ms E had the opportunity to ask for further information and could 
have realised she hadnt received it.
With this in mind, Ive considered the information set out in the letter. They set out 
the fee for the enhanced service as well as the annual fee for ongoing monitoring 
and valuation. Also, I can see they confirmed that they had agreed an additional fee 
of 2% for any new advice on existing investments needed to preserve Ms Es 
original investment objectives. They explained this charge would be based on the 
value of investments effected. So, Im content Chase de Vere set out their charge 
for new advice and it was reasonably clear that this was a separate charge to the 
ongoing service charge.
Also, Ive reviewed the terms of business and I can see that Chase de Vere 
confirmed it may be necessary to ensure that existing investments recommended 
continue to meet the original objective and new advice may be necessary. They 
explained new advice included a range of different activities and the charge would 
be based on a percentage of the amount of investment affected. This information 
was consistent with the information in their agreement letter.
Moreover, Ms E has also said theyve changed the agreement to make the charges 
clearer. However, Im not persuaded this in itself means they acted unreasonably 
when providing information in 201 on to agree a reduced fee with Ms E for new 
advice.
 
Overall, Im persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that its likely the service agreement 
and terms of business were sent. In any event, later references to these documents 
gave Ms E the opportunity to request any information which might have been 
missing. Whilst I cant explain why Ms E didnt receive the letter, Im content Chase 
de Vere took reasonable steps to ensure their charges were clear when Ms E 
instructed them.
Transfer of stocks and shares ISAIve considered the evidence and I appreciate there were difficulties with transferring 
the stocks and shares ISA on to the platform. The advisor emailed Ms E in May 2018 
and explained that the platform had applied for the funds for transfer and it would be 
a cleaner share class as with her other investments.
Ive seen Ms E emailed the advisor about this on 26 June 2018. The advisor 
responded the following day and explained they were re-registering the fund to the 
platform when they would be switched to an income share class. They said they did 
this electronically on 22 June and the platform was waiting for the funds to come 
across. Ive seen a confirmation email from the platform in July 2018.
The advisor wrote to Ms E on 19 July 2018 and I understand this followed a 
telephone call on the previous day. He explained that the platform had been unable 
to carry out an in specie transfer because the fund held was an older commission 
paying share class. The platform did not deal with these share classes. I understand 
the platform could execute a cash transfer and rebuy the fund as a commission free 
share class. There was some enclosed documentation which needed to be signed in 
order to facilitate this.
I havent seen any further correspondence about the transfer until Ms E contacted 
Chase de Vere on 10 September 2018 and asked why it hadnt happened yet even 
though she had already sent the forms back. The advisor responded the following 
day and said the platforms representative explained they were having difficulty with 
the re-registrations and they recommended re-applying at the end of September. I 
cant see this was followed up until after the next review.
In May 2019, Ms E emailed about a number of issues following the review. This 
included the transfer. She asked why this hadnt happened yet. On 15 May 2019, the 
advisor said he had already sent a copy of the communication with the platform. He 
also explained commission continued to be paid because she was set up with the 
old-style commission paying share class. He said this wasnt switched, even though 
they had tried to do so by moving it to the new platform. I understand Ms E made the 
decision to move it to a cash ISA.
Overall, I think there may well be some delay here and the evidence doesnt currently 
convince me that Chase de Vere acted as promptly as they could have done. 
However, some of the delay appears to be outside of Chase de Veres control and as 
a result of the fund being held in the old share classes which werent dealt by the 
platform. The evidence does show that Chase de Vere genuinely attempted the 
transfer.
Additionally, whilst I can see Chase de Vere responded to Ms Es requests for an 
update, Im minded to say they could have done more to update her particularly after 
September 2018. In the final response, Chase de Vere have said it was agreed the 
re-registration would be looked at during the next review. However, Ms E said she 
didnt know this or agree she was happy to wait. Ive not seen copies of 
correspondence to support their position here.
However, Im not convinced Ms E suffered a specific financial loss. It does seem 
there were genuine difficulties and a decision was made to ensure Ms E remained invested and this meant keeping the old share classes. This seems a sensible 
decision because it avoided the risk of missing out on potential gains from the 
investments, even though it meant that the funds remained in the old share classes 
which paid commission. As mentioned previously, Ill consider any further evidence 
the parties may wish to provide.
Enhanced level of service
Ive reviewed the client service agreement letter dated 14 February 2018. I can see 
she agreed to pay 1% per annum of her funds under management for an enhanced 
service. I appreciate Ms E didnt receive this letter. However, Ive previously 
concluded it was likely to have been sent. In this letter, Chase de Vere set out what 
she could expect to receive as part of the enhanced service.
For example, I can see Chase de Vere explained the enhanced level of service was 
best suited to clients who, because of their personal circumstances and the nature of 
the financial planning services provided, have a requirement for a level of ongoing 
interaction with their financial advisor. The advisor confirmed he would continue to 
act as Ms Es day-to-day contact. As far as I can see, Ms E was able to contact the 
advisor who often responded promptly.
In addition to this, Chase de Vere confirmed that Ms E could expect to receive other 
things. This included fund alerts, e-newsletters and budget updates. Unfortunately, 
Ms E wasnt receiving them and contacted Chase de Vere to let them know in June 
2019. The advisor responded the following day to ask if she could check if they had 
been sorted in to spam. I also understand this was resolved and Ms E started to 
receive the alerts.
Having considered the evidence, I agree Ms E could have expected to receive the 
alerts. Chase de Vere arent able to explain why she wasnt receiving them. But when 
she raised it with them it seems to have been resolved. Therefore, Im minded to say 
Chase de Vere acted reasonably because Ms E started receiving the alerts once 
shed raised this issue with them. It also seems she received other aspects of the 
enhanced level of service.
Therefore, I concluded that there was an error which meant Ms E didnt receive income from 
some of the investment funds as she had expected. There was also delay transferring Ms 
Es investment and I would have expected to see Ms E kept better informed of this. I said 
Chase de Vere should pay Ms E £200 compensation and that this was fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond. Ms E didnt accept the conclusions I outlined 
in my provisional decision. She was concerned I hadnt seen an email shed sent our service 
on 22 October 2020 including the supporting attachments. She said this shows when she 
complained to Chase de Vere about another issue, they initially denied a financial loss had 
been caused. She said this demonstrated how they dealt with complaints. Ive provided a 
brief summary of her response below.  
In respect of not receiving income, Ms E said:
- She had a financial advisor because of her circumstances and the lack of income 
provision following her divorce. Her pension allowance was small and the income from the investments was necessary. 
- The unnamed deposits trickled into her account, so it was impossible to know she 
wasnt receiving all the income as expected. She said the name of the fund also 
wouldnt have alerted her and there was no IT access from the new platform for 
some time. She had to raise it in the annual review, and she doesnt feel she should 
be the one responsible for spotting the error.  
Ms E also said the following about the transfer: 
- Fees continued to be paid to her previous advisor and she made repeated requests 
between May and September 2018 for the transfer to go ahead. She understood this 
would happen at the end of September. But Chase de Vere failed to follow this up. 
There was no agreement to wait until the end of the year. 
- The new platform had taken over the platform previously holding the ISA and so 
there was no access. She said it was an amalgamation and there was no separate 
platform. 
- Ms E wasnt prepared to leave it any longer, so she removed the investment when it 
was worth less than when she instructed Chase de Vere. 
In respect of the charge for new advice on existing investments, Ms E said the following: 
- The contract signed on 12 February 2018 didnt include the charges for ongoing 
advice and Chase de Vere gave the contract in two halves (one in the meeting and 
one posted). She said the terms of the ongoing advice were not communicated to 
her. And none of the documents (including the financial planning report dated 1 
March 2018 and terms of business) referenced a client service agreement letter 
being posted. She said she was unable to ask for something she didnt know existed 
and she would expect to see evidence she knew about it (or knew about the charge 
for new advice on existing investments. Also, she said this meant she was asked to 
sign an incomplete contract and there was no transparency. 
- The terms of business referred to in the letter was a separate brochure. Also, the 
charges in the terms of business were structured differently to the ones she agreed. 
- There is only a small expense which would be incurred in sending an important 
document as signed for. She said it would be commercially viable to send this very 
important document by recorded delivery. Also, that proof of postage is free. 
Additionally, in respect of the enhanced level of service, she said: 
- There were no budget updates for over a year despite informing Chase de Vere this 
was happening and asking them to sort it out. 
- She said she didnt receive a second-year financial report at all, although they took 
the management fees when they moved her to a new advisor. She left after two and 
a half years because of the ongoing errors. 
Chase de Vere said they had nothing further to add. As both parties have had the 
opportunity to comment, Ive proceeded to issue a final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Es response to my provisional decision includes reference to her email which she sent 
to our service on 22 October 2020. I would assure her that I have considered the content of 
her email and I also did so when reaching the conclusions as outlined in my provisional 
decision. As explained, I understand she wanted to demonstrate how Chase de Vere dealt with a separate complaint and how they initially denied she had suffered a financial loss. I 
understand her comments here. However, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision 
and expanded on below, Im not satisfied she has been caused a financial loss as a result of 
the issues Ive looked into here. And how Chase de Vere dealt with a separate complaint, 
isnt sufficient to persuade me that a financial loss has occurred in this instance. 
Accumulation/Income Funds
As well as all the evidence and arguments received, Ive considered the reasons why Ms E 
does not agree with my conclusion regarding the lack of income she received from the ISA 
investments. I would assure Ms E that I agree the error shouldnt have occurred in the first 
place and it wasnt her responsibility to highlight it. I also take on board what she has said 
about being in a position to notice the error prior to the first annual review and that she did 
need the income. I did acknowledge the frustration this must have caused Ms E. But in my 
provisional decision I also set out reasons why I didnt feel Ms E should be compensated for 
a financial loss here. For example, the funds were reinvested, and she also expected to 
receive income from the DGT. Therefore, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion on 
this issue.     
Charges
Ive also considered her comments about the information she had about the charges. I 
understand what she has said about not being able to ask for something she wasnt aware of 
and what shes said about the information in the terms of business. However, Im content for 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision that Chase de Vere reasonably sought to 
inform her of their charge for new advice on existing investments. I also explained why Im 
content Chase de Vere used a reasonable method to send the initial letter with the charges 
outlined. Theres no reason for me to conclude Chase de Vere are responsible for the letter 
not actually being received by Ms E. 
Transfer of stocks and shares ISA
Additionally, Ive also thought carefully about what Ms E has said in respect of the transfer. I 
also note what she has said about the amalgamation of the two platforms.  Having done so, 
Im content with my conclusion as outlined in my provisional decision. I explained why there 
seemed to have been some delay and a lack of updates in respect of the transfer and this 
remains the case. I also set out what I felt the impact of this had been. The evidence and 
comments Ive seen dont persuade me I need to alter my conclusion as set out in my 
provisional decision. 
Enhanced level of service 
Again, Ive considered the comments and evidence I have in relation to the service Ms E 
received. I appreciate there were issues here and I recognise that she hadnt been receiving 
the alerts and updates as expected. However, it does seem Chase de Vere reasonably 
resolved the issue of Ms E not receiving alerts based on what Ive seen and when the 
evidence shows they first understood there was an issue. 
Ms E has also commented to say she didnt receive a financial report for the second year 
Chase de Vere were instructed. The merits of this havent been looked into as part of this 
complaint and Chase de Vere would need the opportunity to respond. But I can say that at 
the time of making the complaint which forms the scope of this investigation she had 
received confidential planning reports (dated 1 March 2018, 30 May 2018 and 1 May 2019). 
So, again Im not persuaded its necessary to change my conclusion. 
Overall, I appreciate my decision will be very disappointing to Ms E as she has explained 
why she disagrees with my conclusion. However, I have thought carefully about all the evidence and comments that both parties have provided. Having done so, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
There was an error which meant Ms E didnt receive income from some of the investment 
funds as she had expected. There was also delay transferring Ms Es investment and I 
would have expected to see Ms E kept better informed of this.  To acknowledge these 
service issues Chase de Vere should pay Ms E £200. This is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Chase de Vere Independent Financial Advisors Limited 
should pay Ms E £200. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman