DRN-3176443
The complaint
Mr Ns complaint is about the handling of a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage application by 
John Charcol Limited in 2019. He is unhappy that mistakes were made with the initial 
application and he wasnt told about the consequences of those mistakes in a timely 
manner. He believes that he has suffered a financial loss because of this and wants 
John Charcol to reimburse him for those losses.
What happened
In 2019 Mr N owned two properties. He had his residential property (property 1) and a 
second property which he rented out (property 2). 
Mr N decided to move into property 2, re-mortgage property 1 on a BTL basis and borrow 
additional funds. The equity released from property 1 was to be used to pay off the existing 
BTL mortgage property 2.
Mr N sought assistance with the arrangements from John Charcol. It has said that 
re-mortgaging property 1 was not straightforward due to the income requirements of most 
lenders and the fact that the property hadnt been rented out before. However, it identified a 
lender that would provide a mortgage on the property, which I will refer to as B. 
Unfortunately, it appears that the adviser at John Charcol misunderstood Bs requirements in 
relation to property 1. Mr N should have been told that he needed to have moved out of 
property 1 before applying for the mortgage and that there needed to either be tenants in the 
property or a tenancy agreement showing tenants were lined up. 
A few days later, Mr Ns tenants gave notice that they would be moving out of property 2 
toward the end of October 2019. The application form that was subsequently submitted to B 
wasnt completed correctly, and the lender was told Mr N was already living in property 2. 
Mr Ns application for the re-mortgage on property 1 was submitted to B in September 2019. 
He was still living in property 1 at that time. However, B was not aware of that fact and it 
accepted the application and issued a mortgage offer on 20 September 2019, which was 
valid for six months. 
The error regarding residency came to light in October 2019 and B confirmed to John 
Charcol that the application shouldnt have been submitted until after Mr N had moved out of 
property 1. John Charcol has said that B didnt inform it that it was cancelling the application 
at that point. Nor does it appear that John Charcol asked what, if anything, B intended to do 
about it.
In October and November 2019, the tenants in property 2 asked to be allowed to delay 
moving out. On the latter occasion, they asked to extend the tenancy by six months. In 
November 2019 Mr N had his letting agent give formal notice to the tenants to leave the 
property by the end of January 2020. 
Mr N informed John Charcol that he had agreed extensions for his tenants to vacate 
property 2 and the timescales involved. The emails to John Charcol made it clear that the 
fact there was a mortgage offer, valid until March 2020, was a factor in those decisions.
On 9 December 2019 B wrote to John Charcol. It said that it hadnt heard anything about the 
re-mortgage for some time and had assumed the application was not proceeding. It had, 
therefore, cancelled the application. John Charcol was given the option to contact B if Mr N 
wanted to proceed with the application. There is no evidence that John Charcol contacted B 
at this point.
On 20 December 2019 B again wrote to John Charcol and confirmed that the offer was 
withdrawn as its lending criteria hadnt been met. Mr N was not informed by either 
John Charcol or B.
Mr Ns tenants moved out of property 2 in January 2020 and he moved in shortly thereafter. 
Mr N informed John Charcol that was the case and in early February 2020 he informed it 
that he wanted to complete on the re-mortgage with B. John Charcol told Mr N at this point 
that the mortgage offer was no longer valid and a new application would need to be done. Mr 
N raised concerns about John Charcol not having made him aware that the mortgage offer 
had lapsed and questioning the fact that hed previously been told it was valid until March 
2020. He expressed the belief that had John Charcol done what it should have, the new 
application could have been made earlier.
It was at this point that John Charcol told Mr N that the mortgage offer had been withdrawn 
because he hadnt been eligible to apply for the mortgage when he did and why. It 
apologised for the lack of communication. John Charcol said it would waive its fee in light of 
the mistakes it had made. A new application was submitted to B, which required new 
underwriting and the valuation to be updated. By the time the new application was made it 
was a requirement for the owners of clad multi-storey properties to have arranged for the fire 
safety of the property to be investigated. Property 1 was contained in such a building, and so 
the valuer required evidence of the assessment completed on the building. Mr N wasnt able 
to provide evidence that satisfied the valuer, so he decided to cancel the application in early 
April 2020. 
Mr N moved back into property 1 and rented out property 2 again. His new tenants took up 
residence in early April 2020. He complained to John Charcol about its handling of his 
application and the loss he believed hed suffered as a result. 
John Charcol responded to the complaint and accepted that its adviser had given Mr N 
incorrect information about the Bs requirements. It said that it believed that, had it explained 
Bs requirements correctly to Mr N, he would have continued with his plans. However, the 
issues with property 1 would always have been an issue if the application had been made 
after Mr N moved out of the property, and so the situation wouldnt have been any different. 
As such, John Charcol didnt consider Mr N had suffered a financial loss due to its actions. It 
did, however, acknowledged that not keeping Mr N informed would have caused him stress 
and inconvenience, so it offered him £500 compensation.
Mr N wasnt satisfied with John Charcols response and referred his complaint to this service 
for consideration. When he did so he explained what had happened and confirmed that, had 
he known the re-mortgage on property 1 wasnt going through, he wouldnt have moved. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. She concluded that as Mr N had gone ahead with a second application following 
moving home and knowing about the mistakes, the move would always have happened. As 
such, all of the costs he incurred would always have been incurred. She also considered the waived broker fee and £500 offered was enough to compensate Mr N for the poor service he 
received.
Mr N didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked that the complaint be passed to an 
ombudsman for consideration. He said that John Charcol hadnt waived the broker fees, as 
they were only payable upon completion of a mortgage, which hadnt happened. He then 
reiterated that he considered he had suffered a financial loss and distress and 
inconvenience due to the errors by John Charcol. In addition, Mr N explained that his tenants 
had wanted to remain in property 2. He believed that had John Charcol given him the right 
information he may have decided not to move and re-mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
John Charcol has confirmed that it made two mistakes in this case. The first being that it 
misinterpreted the lenders requirements and so it didnt tell Mr N that he needed to have 
moved out of property before he was eligible to apply for the re-mortgage. The second 
mistake it has admitted to was that it didnt tell Mr N in December 2019, when B told it the 
mortgage application had been cancelled.
However, I think there was a further error on John Charcols part. That was, when it 
discussed the first of its errors with B in October 2019, it didnt ask B what it intended to do 
about the application. Had it done so, it would reasonably have been aware that the 
application would be cancelled at that time. I say this due to the action B subsequently took 
and, as Mr N had been ineligible for the mortgage at the time of application and as he was 
still living in the property, he remained ineligible.
When considering a complaint and whether redress should be paid, we consider what 
position the consumer would most likely have been in, had the error not occurred. The first 
error meant that Mr N applied for the mortgage before he should have. Had he been told that 
he couldnt apply for the mortgage at that point, I am satisfied that he wouldnt have. The 
question is then whether Mr N would have applied for the mortgage at a later date, and if he 
would, when would that have happened. 
Its clear that Mr N started making enquiries about the re-mortgage shortly before his tenants 
confirmed they were leaving property 2. Based on the evidence Mr N has provided, it would 
appear that he needed to provide his tenants with two months notice of eviction. This means 
that it would have been the latter part of November 2019 at the earliest before Mr N would 
have been able to move into the property and apply for the mortgage. However, as the 
tenants gave notice only a few days after the initial discussion the broker had with B, it 
seems unlikely that Mr N would have issued formal notice at that time, as it wouldnt have 
been needed. 
The question then becomes, when the tenants told Mr N that they were having difficulties 
with the property they were moving to, whether he would have still agreed the extensions he 
did. While it is now clear with hindsight that a mortgage application made in 2020 would fail, I 
cant take that information into account, as Mr N wasnt aware of that fact when he was 
making his decisions. I cant be sure whether he would have granted those extensions. 
However, I think it unlikely that many people would make decent tenants homeless if they 
could help it and especially in the situation where their own plans didnt have time 
constraints attached to them. If Mr N had agreed the extensions to the tenants as he did, 
that would have led to Mr Ns application not being made until January or February 2020, 
which would have led him to being in the same financial position. The second mistake John Charcol made was, when B raised concerns about the mortgage 
application, it didnt ask what B intended to do about it. If it had, the odds are that the 
application would have been cancelled at that time. It is possibly that this might have 
affected Mr N decisions about the tenants extensions. However, as I have said above, I am 
not persuaded Mr N would have made a different decision in this regard. 
If Mr N had been told about the cancellation of the application when John Charcol first 
became aware of it, the extensions to the time the tenants had to remain in the property had 
already been granted. As such, it would have made no difference to the situation Mr N found 
himself in.
I think it more likely than not that had Mr N been made aware that he had to have moved 
before he could apply for the mortgage, that the application would still have been made, but 
it wouldnt have been made before 2020. As such, I cant find that Mr Ns situation would 
have been any different from what it was and that he didnt suffer a financial loss because of 
the mistakes 
That said, Mr N did suffer inconvenience and upset because of the mistakes John Charcol 
made. As I have said above, I dont think the mistake in completing the application before it 
should have been made any difference to the situation Mr N found himself in. When we 
consider compensation for poor service and its effect, we will look at how the errors 
impacted the individual. In this case, Mr Ns expectations were raised, and this will have 
caused him upset and disappointment. Monetary compensation can never rectify this poor 
service, but I consider that £500 is sufficient compensation in these circumstances. 
Mr N has said that the offer John Charcol made to waive its fees was worthless as the 
mortgage didnt go through. It is true that this offer didnt result in Mr N saving money, but at 
the point the offer was made it was a valid one. It would have meant that Mr N received 
mortgage advice at no cost, and that was an appropriate offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision before 
10 March 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman