DRN-1615207
The complaint
Miss B says AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
2002. Its been agreed in this case that AXA, as the insurer, should take responsibility for 
the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my decision.
What happened
This complaint is about a River Island store card PPI policy Miss B took out in 2002. The 
adjudicator thought that Miss Bs complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss B disagrees, so 
her complaint has been passed to me to decide. Miss B says there is no proof that she 
consented to buy PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account when deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA says the policy was sold to Miss B during a phone call. Miss B says she was 
unawarethe policy had been added and didnt know she was paying for it. Although I cant be 
sure how the policy was sold to Miss B, I am persuaded when looking at this information that 
the sale was conducted through a telephone call. So I will proceed that this was the case.
AXA have said the sale took place during a phone call but havent been able to provide 
a recording of the phone call or any notes taken at the time  this isnt surprising 
considering the sale took place many years ago. So I dont know how PPI was presented to 
Miss B or what was said during the phone call.
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss B has told us  that she did not know she 
was paying for the policy or that it had been added to her account. But I also have to 
consider that because the sale took place so long ago, memories can fade over time. Ive 
also taken in to account what we know about how AXA sold these policies around this time 
and everything weve seen in the past.
I think, on balance, its likely the AXA representative would have followed a sale script and 
made it clear that the PPI was optional, and Miss B would have been asked for her consent 
to the cover. Ive not seen enough to conclude otherwise.
I think its likely that PPI would have appeared on Miss Bs store card statements and I 
think Miss B wouldve questioned why she was paying for PPI if it was something she 
hadnt agreed to take out. But it seems Miss B continued to pay PPI for some years after the 
PPI was added to her account. So, based on what Ive seen, I think AXA made it clear the 
policy was optional and Miss B chose to take it out.AXA didnt recommend the PPI policy to Miss B. So it didnt have to take steps to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it had to give Miss B enough information about the 
policy to decide if she wanted it or not.
Its likely the information AXA gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been  including the costs and benefits of the policy. But based on what I know about Miss 
Bs circumstances it looks like it could still have been useful to her. And I dont think 
better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
I say this because Miss B says she had savings and would have received sick pay if she 
was off work and she was living at home with less financial commitments at that time. But 
the PPI policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding monthly balance for up to 12 months 
for unemployment, accident or sickness. So it wouldve paid out in addition to any 
provisions she had and for longer. So I think Miss B couldve found this policy useful should 
she have become unable to work or unemployed. Theres nothing to show me Miss B 
couldnt afford the policy. And if she no longer wanted it she couldve cancelled it at any 
time. Ive taken into account all Miss Bs comments, but these points dont change my 
conclusion.
I also dont think shed have been affected by any of the main things that mightve made 
it more difficult for her to make a successful claim  such as any medical condition of 
which she was already aware. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped Miss B 
from buying the PPI. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman