DRN-4386617
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has turned down 
an incapacity claim she made on a personal income protection insurance policy. She also 
complains that L&G has cancelled the policy from its inception.
Mrs S is represented by Mr S.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
In October 2019, Mrs S applied for a personal income protection insurance policy through a 
broker. L&G assessed Mrs S application and agreed to offer her cover.
Unfortunately, in May 2022, Mrs S was diagnosed with a brain tumour and therefore, she 
made an incapacity claim on the policy.
L&G investigated Mrs S claim and it obtained her medical records. L&G learned that Mrs S 
had been found to have an abnormality in her brain in 1997, which had been under 
surveillance by a multi-disciplinary team for a number of years. So L&G considered that Mrs 
S hadnt answered questions about her health correctly at the time of application. It said that 
if Mrs S had disclosed her condition, it would never have offered her any cover at all. L&G 
concluded that Mrs S had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented her health to it. And so, 
it turned down Mrs S claim and cancelled her policy from its inception.
Mrs S was unhappy with L&Gs decision and so Mr S asked us to look into this complaint. 
She felt shed answered L&Gs questions correctly. She acknowledged that shed been 
under review for a number of years. But in 2016, Mrs S had been told that the abnormality 
was likely to be an area of dysplasia, rather than a neoplasia. And shed been discharged 
from the multi-disciplinary teams care. She said she didnt think an area of dysplasia fell with 
the scope of the questions shed been asked during the policy application.
Our investigator thought it had been fair for L&G to turn down Mrs S claim and cancel her 
policy. She considered that L&G had asked Mrs S clear questions about her health, which 
she didnt think Mrs S had taken reasonable care to answer. She was satisfied that if Mrs S 
had told L&G about the dysplasia, it wouldnt have offered her an income protection 
insurance policy. 
However, the investigator didnt think it was fair for L&G to conclude that Mrs S had 
deliberately or recklessly misrepresented her health. Instead, she thought Mrs S had made a 
careless misrepresentation. And so she recommended that L&G should refund the 
premiums Mrs S had paid for the policy together with interest.
L&G said that while it still felt Mrs S had made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, it 
would refund her premiums, together with interest.
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusions and Ive summarised Mr S response. Mr S 
said that for more than 17 years, Mrs S had been monitored by MRI scans, which showed 
that the abnormality was stable. He said that the abnormality had been a patch of cells  
without a measurable dimension. So he felt that thered clearly been no cyst, growth or 
tumour. He maintained that Mrs S had answered L&Gs questions accurately and shed been 
told that the abnormality in her brain had no clinical significance. Mr S stated that thered 
been no measurable mass in Mrs S brain in 2016, when shed been discharged from care 
and shed been entitled to believe that the abnormality was a normal variant. He felt L&G 
was trying to penalise Mrs S with the benefit of hindsight.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs S, I dont think it was unfair for L&G 
to turn down her claim and cancel her income protection insurance policy and Ill explain 
why.
First, Id like to reassure Mrs S that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and Mr S submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all thats been said and sent. I was 
very sorry to hear about Mrs S diagnosis and I appreciate that this has been a very worrying 
and upsetting time for Mrs S and her family. 
I must also make it clear that this decision will only consider L&Gs handling of Mrs S 
income protection insurance claim and policy cancellation. A complaint about Mrs S Life and 
Critical Illness policy will be considered separately by this service.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And  
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,  
the law; the terms of the insurance contract; and the available medical evidence, to decide  
whether I think L&G handled Mrs S claim fairly.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a  
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is  
that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the  
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be  
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on  
different terms - or not at all - if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take  
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether  
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
When Mrs S applied for the policy, she was asked information about herself and a number of 
questions about her health. L&G used this information to decide whether or not to insure Mrs 
S and if so, on what terms. L&G says that Mrs S didnt correctly answer the questions she 
was asked on the application form. This means the principles set out in CIDRA are relevant. 
So I think its fair and reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mrs S 
claim. L&G thinks Mrs S failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she  
applied for the policy. So Ive considered whether I think this was a fair conclusion for L&G to 
reach. 
First, when considering whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, I need to consider  
how clear and specific the questions asked by the insurer were. Therefore, Ive looked 
carefully at the application form Mrs S completed, which sets out the questions she was 
asked and the answers she gave.
The application form includes a section called Health  Ever. This sets out the following:
When answering the following questions, if youre unsure whether to tell us about a medical 
condition, please tell us anyway. 
Have you ever:
-Had a cyst, growth or tumour in either your brain or spine?
Mrs S answered no.
The next section of the application form sets out Health  Last 5 years and asks:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last five years 
have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
-A growth, lump, polyp or tumour of any kind?
Mrs S answered no.
In my view, these questions were asked in a clear and understandable way and included 
clear timeframes. So I think these questions ought to have prompted a reasonable consumer 
to understand what information L&G wanted to know. L&G says that Mrs S ought to have 
disclosed the brain abnormality during the application process. So Ive closely considered 
Mrs S medical records and her testimony to decide whether I think she took reasonable care 
to answer L&Gs questions.
Mrs S accepts that in 1997, an MRI scan found a left parahippocampal lesion in Mrs S brain. 
Mrs S was placed under regular surveillance and observation under a multi-disciplinary 
team. In 2003, Mrs S GP wrote to neurology. Their letter included the following:
(A scan in the 1990s) showed a lesion within her brain which caused quite a lot of concern 
however finally it was reported that she had a low grade glioma in the left hippocampal and 
parahippocampal gyrus.
In 2005, a consultant neurosurgeon stated:
(Mrs S) has what we think is a low grade tumour, probably a glial series tumour.
So it appears that as early as 1997, Mrs S had been diagnosed with a glioma  a form of 
tumour which originates from the glial cells. Mrs S remained under surveillance and the 
abnormality remained stable for many years. As such then, Im satisfied that the answer to 
L&Gs question asking whether Mrs S had ever been diagnosed with growth or tumour in her 
brain or spine should have been yes.
It's clear that Mrs S feels strongly that she did answer L&Gs questions accurately, given the 
findings of further scans in 2015 and 2016, in particular. Ive thought about this evidence very carefully.
In March 2015, the consultant stated: (Mrs S) parahippocampal abnormality has been static 
now for 15 years. I will review images with the neuroradiologist to see whether they are 
sufficiently happy that this is cortical dysplasia rather than low grade glioma.
And in August 2016, Mrs S multi-disciplinary team said: 
The most recent MRI scan shows very stable appearancesWe have reviewed these and 
we feel that this is probably an area of dysplasia rather than neoplasia, although we can 
never be 100% certain that this is what is going to be the most likely diagnosisI do not 
think she needs any further MRI scans for surveillance of this lesion and she should just 
consider this a normal variant.
Mrs S says she didnt think she needed to tell L&G about her diagnosis, because she didnt 
think dysplasia was a growth, cyst or a tumour. And she says shed understood that the area 
of dysplasia was a normal variant. I can entirely understand why, following Mrs S discharge 
from neurology, shed believed that the dysplasia wasnt a significant clinical concern.
However, I asked L&Gs Chief Medical Officer (CMO) to provide a definition of dysplasia and 
explain how it could be considered as a growth, tumour or cyst. The CMO provided the 
following definition:
Dysplasia is any of various types of abnormal growth or development of cells (microscopic 
scale) or organs (macroscopic scale), and the abnormal histology or anatomical structure(s) 
resulting from such growth.
The CMO also said: In other words, dysplasia represents an abnormal growth or 
development of cells. The term signifies a departure from the norm and can indicate a 
predisposition towards neoplasia (uncontrolled cell growth).
Based on the CMOs evidence and the medical definition of dysplasia, it seems that it does 
refer to an abnormal growth of cells. Mrs S did know that she had an area of dysplasia in her 
brain at the time of policy application  a growth of cells. And Ive borne in mind too that for 
around 15 years, Mrs S had been given a likely diagnosis of a low grade glioma - a tumour. 
So it still seems to me that even if a diagnosis of glioma had been replaced with a diagnosis 
of dysplasia, Mrs S is most likely to have been aware of a growth of abnormal cells in her 
brain. And it remains the case that she had been given a diagnosis of a glioma previously. 
As such, I think, on balance, Mrs S ought reasonably to have been prompted to answer yes 
to L&Gs question, as she had been diagnosed with a form of tumour in the late 1990s and 
had been under the care of a specialist team for many years. And the 2016 letter didnt state 
that Mrs S had a definite diagnosis of dysplasia  the consultant made it clear that this was a 
likely diagnosis, but that the diagnosis couldnt be certain. 
I must make it clear that I dont think Mrs S deliberately or recklessly sought to mislead L&G 
about her health. But I dont think she took enough care to ensure she answered its 
questions correctly. And Im mindful that the application form did indicate that if a consumer 
was unsure whether or not they should disclose something, they should tell L&G about it. 
Given Mrs S long history of neurological issues, I think she ought to have been aware that 
this was something L&G would want to know about.
In my view then, the available evidence suggests that Mrs S did make a qualifying  
misrepresentation under CIDRA. So I think L&G is reasonably entitled to apply the relevant  
remedy available to it under the Act. While L&G originally concluded that Mrs S had made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation, it accepted our investigators view that Mrs S had 
made a careless misrepresentation. On the evidence before me, I agree that the 
misrepresentation was careless. 
CIDRA says, in cases of careless misrepresentation, that an insurer is entitled to rewrite the 
policy as if it had all of the information it wanted to know at the outset. If it wouldnt have  
offered the policy, it may cancel the contract from the outset and refund the premium. In this 
case, L&G has provided confidential underwriting information which shows that if it had been 
aware of Mrs S dysplasia, it would never have offered her an income protection insurance 
policy. So I dont think it was unfair for L&G to have turned down the claim and cancelled 
Mrs S policy from the start. Its now agreed to refund all of the premiums shes paid since 
the policy began, together with interest. I find this to be a fair and reasonable outcome to Mrs 
S complaint in all the circumstances.
For completeness, L&G also concluded that Mrs S hadnt disclosed existing anxiety either 
when she applied for the policy. However, as Ive found that it wouldnt have offered her a 
policy regardless of any misrepresentation of this particular condition, I dont think I need to 
consider this point any further.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mrs S position, I think L&G has now agreed to 
settle her complaint in a fair and reasonable way.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that L&G has now offered to settle Mrs 
S complaint in a fair and reasonable way. Im not directing L&G to reinstate Mrs S policy or 
pay her claim.
I direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to refund all of the premiums Mrs S 
paid for the income protection insurance policy from inception. It must add interest at an 
annual rate of 8% simple to the settlement, from the date each premium was paid until the 
date of settlement.
If L&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs S how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs S a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman