DRN-4420962
The complaint
Miss M complains about how Astrenska Insurance Limited (Astrenska) dealt with a claim 
she made on her insurance policy for her damaged laptop.
Astrenska is the underwriter of this policy, i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As Astrenska has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to Astrenska includes its agents. 
What happened
Miss Ms travel insurance policy provides her with extra cover in respect of her gadgets. 
Miss M had a laptop that was worth around £3,000. While she was travelling the laptop 
sustained some damage so she made a claim on her travel insurance policy. 
In February 2023 she sent her laptop to Astrenska and was told it required three parts and 
had some cosmetic damage. Miss M says she was told multiple times that the laptop was 
repairable. 
In March 2023 Miss M was told the laptop was beyond economic repair. Miss M says she 
called the repairer immediately to request more information and was told due the parts being 
unavailable the laptop was deemed beyond economical repair. Miss M asked what her 
options were. She was told she could have her laptop returned to her or wait for the parts to 
come in. Miss M says she would wait for the parts to come in and if that wasnt possible she 
wanted her laptop returned to her.
At the end of March Astrenska emailed to say there was a chance the parts would come in 
and asked how she wanted to proceed. Miss M confirmed her request for the device to be 
repaired. In the meantime Miss M called the laptop manufacturer to see when the parts 
would be available. She was told the parts would be available soon and would cost around 
£400 to repair. 
On 21 April 2023 Miss M says she emailed Astrenska for an update and was told the laptop 
had been destroyed. Miss M says she made it very clear to Astrenska that if the laptop 
couldnt be repaired she wanted it returned to her because she relied on it for her day-to-day 
life, and the settlement wouldnt be enough for her to replace it. 
Miss M later found out the laptop had been destroyed in March 2023, around six days before 
she received an email saying the parts may be available soon. Miss M made it clear to 
Astrenska that disposing of the laptop wasnt an option and she was told it could be returned 
to her in the event it couldnt be repaired, and this would enable her to have it repaired 
elsewhere.
Miss M says she been without her laptop since February 2023. She is self-employed and 
relies on the laptop for work as well as to communicate using specialised access equipment. 
Miss M says the whole matter has caused her considerable distress and anxiety. She relies 
on access support workers for her work and day to day life and shes had to pay for their 
time at £30/hour to help her with the claim.
Miss M wants Astrenska to provide her compensation for the cost of the equivalent model of 
laptop that was destroyed without her consent together with the refund of insurance excess 
and the cost of the case. Miss M also wants a cash settlement for her and her support 
workers time spent dealing with the insurance companys negligence together with payment 
for loss of work and undue stress. So, she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into things for her. He said Astrenska should pay Miss M the 
amount it would have cost her at the time of disposal for an equivalent laptop. He said the 
excess should be refunded together with the cost of the laptop case. He also recommended 
a payment of £250 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss M. 
Astrenska didnt provide any comments on the investigators view of the matter. So, the 
complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Miss M feels very strongly that Astrenska should pay to replace her laptop, cover 
the cost of the case and the cost of her support worker. And she was told by Astrenska that 
the laptop could be returned to her as an option if it couldnt be repaired. I recognise she 
feels let down by the service she has received. And I can understand her frustration. 
I want to assure Miss M that Ive read and considered everything I have received carefully, 
including telephone calls. My role is to consider the evidence to reach what I think is a fair 
and reasonable decision. 
For me to say Astrenska should do something differently here I need to be satisfied it has 
done something wrong. And to decide this Ive thought about the requirements Astrenska set 
out in its terms and conditions, as well as its processes, against the information Miss M has 
provided, to conclude whether I think it has done something wrong. 
The relevant industry rules require insurers to handle a claim promptly and fairly. And they 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The nature of the policy is to cover repairs resulting from damage or breakdown to a number 
of her devices. The policy says, We will arrange a repair if your gadget is damaged as the 
result of an accident. If your gadget cannot be economically repaired, it will be replaced. 
Astrenska has relied on the following term to dispose of the laptop;
If we replace your gadget the damaged or lost item becomes our property. So, Astrenska 
say because the laptop was beyond economic repair it became its property. And so it was 
free to dispose of it. But I dont agree.
Astrenska are responsible for assessing Miss Ms claim. In order to do this it needs to 
inspect the laptop to ascertain whether it can be repaired or replaced. I have listened to the 
call between Miss M and Astrenska. During the call the agent explains he believes the laptop 
will be beyond economical to repair given the issue with the parts. He says Miss M can have 
the laptop returned to her and her excess refunded if she wants to get it repaired elsewhere. 
Miss M is clear when she says she wants the laptop returned to her and, at the very least, 
she wants someone to call her before any further action is taken. Miss M is assured that no action would be taken without discussing it with her beforehand. So I dont think Astrenska 
explained the process to Miss M properly. It unfairly raised her expectations. 
I have seen there were notes placed on Miss Ms record to say she wanted the device back 
unrepaired. And given what shed explained to the agent on the telephone, together with the 
notes on her file I think Astrenska should have contacted Miss M before taking any action in 
respect of the laptop. 
Astrenska said it disposed of the device because it had been confirmed the laptop couldnt 
be repaired due to no parts being available. But by this stage the laptop had already been 
disposed of. Astrenska also say they have delegated authority to deal with claims as they 
see fit but I dont think that means it should ignore customers requests to retain their 
devices. 
The laptop was disposed of at the end of March 2023, and Miss M made it clear she didnt 
want the laptop declared beyond economic repair on 11 March 2023. And so I dont think 
Astrenska acted fairly in its handling of this claim.  
Miss M obtained repair quotes from the manufacturer so I think she could have had it 
repaired had it been returned to her. Miss M has replaced the laptop with one of similar 
specification to the previous one. So, I have detailed what I think Astrenska can do to 
resolve this complaint below. 
Im satisfied Miss M was clear that she didnt want the laptop to be classed as beyond 
economical to repair. I think her account of what happened has been consistent and is 
corroborated by independent evidence. So I dont think it was reasonable for Astrenska to 
dispose of Miss Ms laptop and offer her £1,500 for it. 
Miss M queried whether the cost of her support worker would be included in any resolution 
of the claim. We dont compensate for the time spent in preparing a complaint. We look at 
the time spent sorting out a mistake and this is accounted for in any payment for distress 
and inconvenience. 
Conclusion
The rules the financial Ombudsman are bound by set out that where a business makes an 
error, its generally fair for us to recommend a business refunds any financial losses directly 
and solely caused by the error. So, it follows that since Astrenska refused to cover the actual 
cost of the laptop and I think that was unfair, I am relying on those rules to direct Astrenska 
to cover those costs. 
And with this in mind, I think Astrenska should pay the compensation recommended by the 
investigator. I say this because I think its in line with our general approach to compensation 
and the amounts we see awarded on complaints about similar situations; where a larger 
mistake like this has happened. And its led to the level of distress and inconvenience Miss 
M has told us about. 
Putting things right
To put things right I direct Astrenska to;
Pay Miss M the amount it would have cost her at the time of disposal for an 
equivalent laptop,
Refund £95 for the excess Miss M paid,Pay Miss M £18.99 for the cost of the laptop case,
Pay Miss M £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I uphold this complaint and direct Astrenska Insurance 
Limited to resolve the complaint by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman