DRN-3211537
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax didnt reimburse him the money he 
lost to an investment scam.
Background
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Mr P has explained that in 2018, he was contacted by an individual purporting to have links 
with the director of a commercial lending company. Mr P cannot recall precisely how he first 
became acquainted with this individual, he believes it was through an app intended for 
meeting people and sharing ideas, but cannot recall the name of the app. Unfortunately, 
unbeknownst to Mr P at the time, the individual he was in contact with was a fraudster.
The fraudster presented Mr P with an investment opportunity relating to peer-to-peer lending 
and bridging loans. Mr P was told the more money he was able to invest, the higher 
percentage of return he could achieve. Mr P has explained he has some experience of 
investing and working within this sector, but not specifically in these types of loans.
Mr P has provided the messages between himself and the fraudster where Mr P asks the 
fraudster more about the investment. The fraudster tells him theres not a chance it would 
mess up and that a minimum return of 10% is guaranteed. The fraudster suggests Mr P 
should obtain a loan from his bank to gain higher percentage returns and that Mr P gets 
other friends and family members to invest. Mr P also meets with the fraudster to discuss the 
investment further. 
The following day, Mr P advises the fraudster that none of his contacts wish to invest as the 
fraudster wont share the name of the business shes linked to. The fraudster is initially 
reluctant to provide the name, to which Mr P responds he isnt comfortable investing without 
completing due diligence. The fraudster eventually provides a name for the business. When 
Mr P cant locate the business based on the information provided, the fraudster provides a 
fuller version of the company name. Mr P says he still cant find the business, and the 
fraudster then provides an amended full business name, apologising that shes too busy to 
reply.
Mr P finds the business on the FCA register based on the new information provided, asks for 
further information from the fraudster on previous transactions and also confirms he thinks 
he can obtain a £50,000 loan to invest. Mr P insists that before he sends funds across, a 
contract is written up which both parties agree to.
The fraudster applies quite a lot of pressure for Mr P to get the loan straight away, and when 
hes unable to initially get an appointment, suggests other branches and methods to get the 
money immediately. Mr P tells the fraudster hes secured a loan for £45,000 and is told by 
the fraudster that she will help him make the balance up to £50,000 so he obtains a higher 
return rate.
The fraudster instructs Mr P to send the money across in two transactions, so Mr P sends 
£25,000 from his current account and £20,000 from his Web Saver. Halifax has said the 
second payment of £20,000 was initially blocked by its fraud systems and only released after 
Mr P called its fraud department and visited a branch. Mr P disputes this. He says the 
payment was made at 12:10 on a Saturday, so if blocked, there wouldnt have been time for 
him to visit his branch before it closed to release the payment.
In the days that follow, the fraudster repeatedly asks Mr P for more investment, suggesting 
he asks his family to take loans, suggests Mr P asks friends again to invest and also 
suggests that Mr Ps investment isnt safe if they cant find further investment. Mr P makes a 
further three payments, bringing the total transferred to £85,000. For ease of reference Ive 
included the transactions below with the dates of when the payments were processed by 
Halifax.
date time value comments
21/04/2018 07:48 £25,000
21/04/2018 12:10 £20,000 Initially blocked by 
Halifax for further 
questioning
22/04/2018 10:33 £5,000
25/04/2018 22:33 £10,000
28/04/2018 14:19 £25,000
Mr P was expecting to receive his first payment back from the fraudster in May 2018, for 
£25,000 plus interest. When this didnt happen Mr P realised he may have been the victim of 
a scam and contacted Halifax to raise a claim. Halifax contacted the receiving banks to 
recover funds but were told that unfortunately, no funds remained.
Mr P contacted Halifax again in 2020 to raise a further complaint as he considered Halifax 
couldve done more to protect his money. Halifax provided its final response in September 
2020. It said its fraud systems had worked as designed and as nothing untoward had been 
found, the payments had been processed as requested.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr P brought the complaint to our service. An investigator 
looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. He considered that Halifax shouldve 
intervened when Mr P made the first payment to the fraudster. However, he said that when 
Halifax blocked the second payment, Mr P told Halifax the payment was for an extension 
and that as a result, he didnt think it was reasonable to expect Halifax to have warmed Mr P 
about investment scams. He considered that even if Halifax had uncovered that this 
payment was for an investment, Halifax wouldnt have been able to uncover that this was a 
scam, based on the particular circumstances of this scam and the checks Mr P had already 
completed.
Mr P didnt accept our investigators view and so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Im really sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr P, and I can understand entirely why he 
feels so strongly that this money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully 
about Halifaxs actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in processing the payments Mr 
P made. I also dont think it could have done any more than it did to try and
recover the money.
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Mr Ps complaint. I do appreciate
how disappointing this will be, but I dont think I can fairly say Halifax should
reimburse the money Mr P has sadly lost to the fraudster. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Halifax should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Mr P, when Mr P made the transfers to the fraudster and when he reported the fraud, or 
whether it should have done more than it did.
Mr P has accepted that he authorised the payments himself. Because of this, Halifax had an 
obligation to follow his instruction. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer  as Ive 
explained, I consider that as a matter of good practice Halifax shouldve been on the lookout 
for unusual and out of character transactions.
Having reviewed the account activity on Mr Ps account statements from which the payments 
were made, for the 10-month period leading up to the scam, I think payments were out of 
character for Mr P from the first transfer and that the first payment of £25,000 Mr P made 
should have been blocked for further questioning before processing. I say this because the 
payment was significantly larger than other payments in this period and was also being 
made by faster payment to a new payee. I therefore need to consider what I think wouldve 
happened had this payment been blocked and if Halifax had asked further questions at this 
time before processing the payment.
Mr P made a second payment shortly after the first which was blocked for further 
questioning. I appreciate Mr P made these payments some time ago and doesnt recall 
visiting his bank following the payment being blocked. However, Halifax has provided a call recording from 21 April 2018 at 9:40, where Mr P advises Halifax hes trying to make a 
payment but has been told to call first. Mr P confirms the payment request is for £20,000. 
When asked where the payment is going, Mr P advises hes starting work on an extension 
and that hes waiting for the payment to go through so that raw materials can be ordered to 
start. Halifax advises Mr P that the payment is deemed too high risk to complete by phone 
and hell need to take identification to branch. Mr P asks if theres nothing Halifax can do as 
its quite urgent, but is told there isnt. The following day, Mr P calls Halifax again as his 
online banking has been suspended. In this call, Mr P confirms he made a large transaction 
the previous day and went to branch with his identification to authorise it.
Based on these recordings Im satisfied that Halifax did block the second payment Mr P 
attempted to make and only processed it after Mr P had attended his branch and spoken to 
a branch member, which is why the payment was processed later that day at 12:10.
I therefore need to consider whether I think Halifax shouldve identified when speaking to Mr 
P in branch that he was at risk of financial harm. Im never going to know exactly what was 
said in branch  however I have to bear in mind that when Mr P was asked the reason for 
payment by phone, he chose not to provide the genuine reason for payment. I appreciate 
that its not uncommon for victims of scams to be given cover stories by scammers on what 
to tell their bank (although this isnt what Mr P has suggested happened here), so banks are 
expected to not always take everything at face value. However, from the call Ive listened to, 
I think its most likely that when Mr P attended branch, he wouldve maintained that this 
payment was for extension work, which wouldve made it more difficult for Halifax to provide 
tailored advice and warnings on the scam Mr P had sadly fallen victim to.
Ive also considered that during calls with our service, Mr P has explained he knows the sort 
of questions banks would ask for investment payments such as do you know this person? 
Do you trust them? Do you know what youre investing in? Be aware its very high risk and if 
you do go along with this investment the bank are not liable. He said even if the bank had 
told him these things, it still wouldve been generic and wouldnt have helped as its not 
making him aware of the actual risk. Mr P said banks dont have the niche skill set to 
appreciate whats a good investment  that its the role of a financial advisor, and that a 
financial advisor should advise the cashier at that point. Mr P also considered that if hed 
said payments were for an extension, Halifax shouldve requested to see invoices.
Having considered Mr Ps comments, I think its likely that even if Halifax had identified that 
these payments were for an investment and asked appropriate questions, Mr P would still 
have proceeded. I say this because from what Ive seen, I think Mr P was confident that he 
was investing in a legitimate opportunity  hes explained he completed due diligence on the 
company, he had met the individual he was making payments to, believed he knew their 
home address and had a contract he was happy with. As there were no warnings on the 
FCA register about this firm I dont think there was anything Halifax could realistically have 
advised Mr P of that he wasnt already aware of from his own research. I also dont consider 
Halifax was required to provide any financial or investment advice at the time of the transfer. 
I appreciate Mr P considers Halifax shouldve asked for evidence of the extension he was 
having completed. Banks need to strike a balance between protecting their customers and 
processing payments their customers authorise. While there may be examples where we 
consider it appropriate for banks to request evidence, I dont consider this a blanket 
approach banks should make, particularly in the absence of any red flags. Mr P had also told 
the phone advisor that this transfer was urgent, so I think Mr P was keen to ensure this 
payment was made that same day.
As this second blocked payment was made shortly after the first, I think Mr Ps responses to 
questions wouldve been the same had the first payment he made been blocked. I therefore dont think Mr P has been financially disadvantaged by Halifax not blocking this first 
payment.
Therefore, on balance, and considering all the particular circumstances of this case, I dont 
think Halifax acted unreasonably by processing the payments Mr P made.
When Mr P made Halifax aware of the scam, it acted within a reasonable timeframe to 
contact both beneficiary banks, but unfortunately no funds remained. Im persuaded Halifax 
did what it should have done in an attempt to recover the funds.
Ive also thought about the loan Mr P took out to fund this scam and whether he should 
receive a refund of any interest applied to the loan. While I sympathise with the situation Mr 
P is in, I dont consider it would be fair to ask Halifax to refund the interest Mr P was 
charged. I say that because, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Halifax should 
reasonably have been aware that Mr P was falling victim to a scam when providing this loan. 
As a result, I also dont consider it inappropriate to continue to apply the terms of the loan for 
repayment.
Its very unfortunate that Mr P has lost this money to what is a cruel and sophisticated scam, 
and I understand the experience has been very upsetting for him. But in the circumstances, I 
dont think I can fairly say Halifax should have done more to prevent Mr P losing this money. 
So I dont think it would be fair to ask Halifax to refund the loss.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint against Bank of Scotland 
plc trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman