DRN-2136561
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr B says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
What happened
I sent Mr B and Capital One a provisional decision on 25 August 2020, to explain why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I can see from Capital Ones records that this policy was sold over the internet. Capital 
One said it was sold over the phone in their final response, but have now confirmed that 
this was a mistake  it was an internet sale.
Ive looked carefully at screenshots showing the process Mr B wouldve gone through 
when he applied for his card online. From those, I can see there wouldve been a section 
for PPI amongst other optional features. It linked to more information about the policy, and 
gave Mr B the option to take it out or turn it down, with neither option being pre-selected. 
According to the electronic record of Mr Bs application, he chose the option to buy PPI. 
Ive not seen any wider problems with Capital Ones sales process from the time, nor any 
evidence showing that it misled Mr B into buying PPI here. So I think that Capital One 
made it clear Mr B didnt have to take out PPI and that he chose to take it  though I can 
understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so many years.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. It did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide for himself 
whether it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed his mind. Here, it looks like Mr B chose to take out the policy, which indicates he 
wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, it 
looks like he was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its key exclusions. 
And he didnt have any alternative cover in case he was off sick or lost his job.
Mr B did have some savings. But without PPI, if he fell on difficult times he wouldve 
needed those savings to cover all his costs  not just the credit card  so they wouldnt 
have lasted that long. So the policy would have been useful for Mr B in case something 
went wrong  and illnesses and redundancies can and do happen, even in situations that 
feel stable. Finally, this policy was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr B could cancel it 
at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about PPI was likely 
to have put him off taking it out. 
This means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have told Mr B about that. Because Capital One didnt tell him, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
22 September 2020. But neither Mr B nor Capital One sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  which means that Capital One (Europe) plc does not have 
to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman