DRN-3519172
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Society of Lloyds initially declined to cover a claim made on the legal
expenses insurance (LEI) section of her professional indemnity insurance policy (the
policy).
What happened
During the early part of 2019 Ms B was suspended by the business she was working for at
the time. The working relationship was subsequently ended because it concluded that she
had made some inappropriate claims.
The business she was working for subsequently made a referral to NHS England and after
attending an initial meeting on 16 May 2019 (the meeting), the decision was taken to refer
Ms B for counter fraud investigation and to a particular decisions panel.
Prior to attending the meeting, Ms B contacted the legal helpline detailed in the terms and
conditions of the policy for guidance. But ultimately, Lloyds didnt provide cover for her to be
represented at the meeting under the policy.
After the meeting, and at her own cost, in an effort to ensure that she could continue to find
and carry out work, Ms B instructed a solicitor to provide a voluntary undertaking making
certain disclosures  including informing any prospective businesses she was engaged by
about the matters being investigated. This was accepted and the undertaking was
subsequently amended many months later.
At the start of 2020, Ms B made a claim on the policy for legal representation in relation to
professional disciplinary proceedings she was subject to. That claim was subsequently
declined in around March 2020 on the basis that it wasnt an insured event under the policy.
Ms B continued to contest the reasons put forward not to cover her claim, and additional
reasons were put forward by Lloyds to decline the claim  including that the claim was
excluded on the basis that the allegations against Ms B related to her submitting false
claims.
Ms B replied saying that shed never been accused of making false claims. She said they
were real claims for real work undertaken but the investigation concerned whether shed
made inappropriate claims. Lloyds treated this as complaint, which wasnt upheld. It
concluded that the claim had been correctly declined.
In July 2020, Ms B made a formal complaint to Lloyds. And on 27 July 2020, Lloyds agreed
that Ms Bs claim shouldnt be declined on the basis that it involved an accusation of making
false claims. It also concluded that it should investigate further whether the claim was
covered as an insured event under the policy and said it would arrange for one of its panel
law firms to advise on this issue.
The panel law firm promptly confirmed the reasons why it considered Ms Bs claim did
amount to an insured event. Indemnity was then put in place under the policy.
Ms B is very unhappy that it took around seven months for Lloyds to confirm that her claim
was covered under the policy from when she made the claim in early 2020.
Lloyds has offered her £600 for any distress and inconvenience caused. Ms B says thats
inadequate, and shed like more compensation. So, she brought her complaint to our
Service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. She felt that £600 fairly and reasonably
reflected the distress and inconvenience Ms B experienced in relation to this particular
complaint.
Ms B disagreed and raised several points in reply. Her complaint was then passed to
me to consider everything afresh. I issued my provisional decision in February 2022 setting 
out in greater detail why I wasnt intending to uphold her complaint. And although I said I was 
aware of another complaint brought to our service - which somewhat overlapped with this 
complaint - I explained that Id focused on what happened from early 2020 when Ms B made 
her claim under the policy.
An extract of my provisional decision appears below:
Lloyds has an obligation to handle complaints fairly and promptly. And it mustnt
unreasonably decline a claim.
The LEI section of the policy does provide cover for professional hearings. It says Lloyds
agrees:
to pay on your behalf the reasonable costs and expenses incurred:
a. as a result of a regulatory investigation, other than a regulatory investigation
arising out of your dental and clinical professional services; or
b. to attend a pre-dismissal interview;
of which you receive first advice in writing during the period of the policy.
However, we will not pay any costs and expenses in respect of any regulatory
investigation affecting the wider environment in which you conduct your dental
and clinical professional services, as opposed to any regulatory investigation
solely affecting you.
The policy defines regulatory investigation as:
a formal hearing, official investigation, coroner's inquest, examination, inquiry or
any other similar proceedings initiated by a regulatory, law enforcement,
professional or statutory body.
Lloyds initially declined the claim on the basis that it didnt consider the circumstances which
Ms B was seeking legal representation for to amount to a regulatory investigation.
It also subsequently declined the claim on the basis that the accusations against Ms B
concerned her making false claims. It did so relying on clause 20 of the exclusions relating
to all insuring clauses section of the policy which says Lloyds wont cover claims:arising directly or indirectly out of any actual or attempted fraudulent or criminal act
by regardless of whether are acting alone or in collusion with others
However, Lloyds did end up accepting the claim at the end of July 2020 and appointed one
of its panel law firms to represent her. And Ive seen an email from Lloyds dated 26 October
2020, where it accepts that it had incorrectly declined Ms B's claim.
Having gained an understanding of Ms Bs claim from her in January/February 2020, in the
circumstances of this complaint, I think it wouldve been fair and reasonable for Lloyds to
have referred the claim to its panel law firm much earlier than it did rather than declining it in
March 2020. Although Ms B provided further information in support of her claim thereafter 
including her submissions about how the policy terms should be interpreted  the basis of
Ms Bs claim was clear early on.
Had the decision been taken to refer Ms Bs claim to the panel law firm much earlier in 2020
(rather than at the end of July 2020), its likely that the panel law firm wouldve very promptly
confirmed that her claim was covered under the LEI section of the policy  as it did on 28
July 2020.
Ms B says most policyholders wouldve given up and not challenged Lloyds original decision
to decline the claim. She says it was only through her persistence, the time she spent
looking through and interpreting the policy terms and the many detailed emails she sent to
Lloyds which resulted in her claim ultimately being accepted. She also says that her partner
spent a lot of time assisting her. I understand all the points Ms B makes.
From what Ive seen, Ms B didnt experience any direct financial losses as a result of Lloyds
declining the claim, she made on her policy in early 2020. However, its clear that she went
to considerable and unnecessary inconvenience having to communicate with many different
representatives of Lloyds about her claim  and the reasons for it being declined.
I appreciate why she felt she had to spend significant time preparing detailed and persuasive
submissions to Lloyds  only for Lloyds to continue to decline her claim or for additional
reasons to be put forward for it being declined (which Lloyds later said it shouldnt have 
done).
Although I accept that Ms B wouldve been experiencing some distress as a result of facing
a disciplinary investigation, I think that level of distress wouldve been made worse by not
having representation in place under the policy much earlier in 2020 to assist her when
required. I also accept that she wouldve been frustrated with the position adopted by a
number of Lloyds representatives to outright decline the claim which - as Ive found above 
wasnt fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
However, Im satisfied that compensation in the sum of £600 reflects the distress and
inconvenience Ms B experienced in this case.
I dont have the power to direct Lloyds to award any compensation for the distress and
inconvenience experienced by her partner as a result of what Lloyds did wrong here. He 
isnt a named policyholder on the policy. However, when concluding the fair amount of
compensation to award Ms B in this case, I do think her distress wouldve been somewhat
exacerbated by knowing that her partner was also worried by Lloyds decision not to cover 
her claim initially and the time he spent assisting Ms B with her representations to Lloyds. 
Ive taken this into account when considering whether Lloyds offer to pay Ms B £600 was 
fair and reasonable here.
In response to our investigators view dated 1 July 2021 Ms B has said that as she was leftto represent herself at the meeting, she ended up being unemployable for around 11
weeks. She says she lost work and significant income as a result - and was forced to take
out loans. Ms B says that if she had appropriate representation at the meeting, its unlikely
that matter wouldve been taken forward. However, Im only looking at what happened since
early 2020 when Ms B made a claim under the policy. The losses she mentioned took place
outside of the period relevant to the complaint Ive decided, and I dont think theyre relevant
here.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms B provided a document entitled: points for consideration along with several attachments 
which Id seen before. The points shes raised are more relevant to the other complaint shed 
brought to our service and will be considered in respect of that complaint. 
Lloyds provided no further comment in relation to this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not received any further substantive comments relevant to this particular complaint or 
any information that I wasnt aware of before provisionally determining this complaint. So, for 
the reasons set out in my provisional decision  an extract of which appears above - Im not 
going to direct Lloyds to do anything more in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman