DRN-3220388
The complaint
The estate of Mrs P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited avoided her life 
assurance policy and refused their claim.
Mrs Ps husband, Mr P, is the executor of the estate and is represented by a third party that 
Ill refer to as R. For ease of reference, Ill mainly refer to R in my decision. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here.
In April 2014 Mrs P applied for a life assurance policy with Aviva. The policy was set up the 
following month and provided a sum assured of £500,000 over a 35-year term. 
Mrs P sadly died in January 2020 and so a claim was made under the policy. Aviva declined 
the claim as they said Mrs P failed to disclose information about her health when applying for 
cover in 2014. And, had they known this information, they wouldnt have offered cover. Aviva 
avoided the policy, refused the claim and returned the premiums paid. 
R complained about the claim decision but Avivas position didnt change. In short, they said:
In her application, Mrs P told them shed suffered from post-natal depression and had 
symptoms in May 2008 on one occasion and had fully recovered. The medical 
records however show this to be incorrect as Mrs P wasnt pregnant until 2010. 
The medical records show Mrs P had a history of mental health problems dating back 
to at least 2006. Shed experienced symptoms on more than one occasion, hadnt 
fully recovered and had also been seen in A&E. 
If this information had been disclosed, they wouldve obtained further details from her 
GP at the time. This wouldve led them to them finding out that Mrs P had suffered 
with depression and OCD for several years, with symptoms present one year before 
she applied for cover. Including Mrs P being seen in A&E due to self-harming, where 
she was observed and advice given before being discharged and a psychiatric follow 
up arranged. They wouldve also found entries of excessive alcohol consumption 
between 2006 and 2010 with medical notes showing shed identified she was 
drinking too much. And, during counselling sessions, she often reported how she was 
managing her alcohol problems. 
They consider it reasonable to think Mrs P wouldve been advised to reduce her 
drinking. And so, she shouldve disclosed this and that she sought advice regarding 
alcohol in the application.
Mrs P had been abstinent from alcohol for four years prior to applying and so her 
excessive alcohol in isolation wouldve been acceptable, albeit with an increase in 
premiums. However, when combined with her mental health history the application 
wouldve been declined.
By not answering the application questions correctly, they were denied the 
opportunity to consider the application correctly. Once theyd known the full extent of 
Mrs Ps mental health history combined with her previous history of alcohol excess, 
they wouldve been unable to offer her any cover. 
Their decision to avoid the policy and refuse the claim was correct. 
Aviva did however pay Mr P £250 for delays in handling the claim. 
The matter was referred to our service. Our investigator looked in to it but he didnt think 
Aviva had acted unfairly. In short, he agreed with Aviva that Mrs P failed to disclose 
information about her mental health history and alcohol consumption. And, having seen 
Avivas underwriting criteria, he was satisfied they wouldnt have offered cover had Mrs P 
answered the applications questions correctly. This meant they were qualifying 
misrepresentations, and he also agreed with Aviva that they were deliberate or reckless. 
Our investigator explained that the relevant legislation allows Aviva to avoid the policy, 
refuse any claim and retain the premiums. But even if the misrepresentations were classified 
as careless, Aviva would still have been allowed to avoid the policy and refuse the claim. 
The difference however would be that premiums should be refunded for careless 
misrepresentation. As Aviva refunded the premiums Mrs P paid, he didnt think they needed 
to take any further action. 
R disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly reassure both R and Mr P that Ive given careful consideration to everything 
theyve said in support of this complaint. I realise this will be a very difficult time for Mr P and 
his family. But what I must consider here is whether Aviva acted fairly by avoiding the policy 
and refusing the claim. Having done so, I think they have and for similar reasons to that of 
our investigator. Ill explain why. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has 
certain remedies provided the misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva think Mrs P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation by not 
providing accurate information about her mental health and alcohol history. They think she 
shouldve answered the following questions differently:
7. Have you ever sought or been given medical advice to reduce the level of your 
drinking?
Mrs P answered this question no. 
15. Within the last five years have you experienceda. anxiety state, stress, depression, chronic fatigue, any other mental or nervous 
illness?
Mrs P answered this question yes. By answering yes, she was then presented with 
additional questions that sought to determine the detail of her disclosure. Mrs P confirmed 
that shed suffered from post-natal depression in May 2008 on one occasion and had fully 
recovered. And that she hadnt ever been treated as a hospital outpatient or inpatient or 
required treatment in a casualty department.
18. Within the last five years, other than in respect of the conditions that you have 
already declared have you:
1. received any medical attention at a hospital as an inpatient or outpatient or
2. had or been advised to have any investigations, scans or blood tests?
Mrs P answered this question no.
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that Mrs P suffered with mental health problems. And the 
medical records show this started as early as 2006. Questions 15 and 18 however only 
relate to the five years preceding the policy application. During which time, R says Mrs P 
suffered very little with her mental health and when she did the symptoms were very mild. 
They further add that she was on no medication during that time and wasnt referred to any 
specialists by her GP as it was under control. 
It seems therefore that R accepts Mrs P did suffer, even mildly, with her mental health during 
the five years before she applied for cover in May 2014. And the medical records evidence 
this as they show:
In October 2009, a work-related incident had knocked Mrs Ps confidence and made 
her OCD worse and wanted to see her counsellor again. A re-referral to the 
counsellor was made.  
In November 2009, Mrs P spoke to the counsellor and the increase in her OCD due 
to problems at work was discussed. A referral to a clinic was also agreed. 
In March 2010, Mrs P was admitted to A&E due to self-harm. She was observed 
before being discharged with advice given and a psychiatric follow up arranged. 
Mrs P met a psychotherapist in March and May 2010. Its recorded that Mrs P 
evidently has struggled with major symptoms of OCD, though says this has slightly 
improved as a result of her contract with yourself, but knows that it increases when 
shes anxious. And that she was drinking up to half a bottle of vodka per night to 
help her avoid experiencing flashbacks and nightmares. It goes on to add that Mrs P 
had been able to give up drinking for the past month and was determined not to fall 
back into those patterns of behavior. Mrs P also explained that she arrived ten 
minutes late to the May appointment as shed been struggling with her OCD. 
In October 2010, in a conversation with her GP, Mrs P was concerned about her 
mood and that the symptoms of her OCD had started to come back again.
In March 2011, Mrs P had stopped counselling due to her pregnancy and felt her 
OCD was coming back. And that she was worried her OCD would have an impact on 
caring for her child. Because of this, she was anxious to get support.
In May 2013, Mrs P says she doesnt need support with her mental health at the time 
but she is conscious of her OCD. And that she tries to avoid it impacting her children. Its unclear why Mrs P told Aviva that she suffered from post-natal depression more than five 
years ago and even before she was pregnant. But, from the above, I think its reasonable to 
conclude that Mrs P ought to have known that shed suffered with her mental health during 
the five years before applying  including being admitted to A&E due to self-harm. So, 
although her symptoms may have been milder and less frequent during that period time, Im 
satisfied Aviva asked Mrs P clear and specific questions that she shouldve answered 
differently. 
Question 7 asked Mrs P about whether shed ever sought or been given medical advice to 
reduce the level of her drinking. I dont intend to set out all of Mrs Ps medical history here. 
But, having reviewed her records, Mrs Ps alcohol consumption appears linked to her mental 
health problems as theres various references of it being used as a coping mechanism. Im 
satisfied that her drinking was regularly discussed with her GP or therapist. And so, I agree 
with Aviva that its most likely that she wouldve been advised to reduce her alcohol 
consumption during that time. And that Mrs P sought treatment, such as through the 
counselling she underwent, to help improve both her mental health and reduce her drinking. 
Because of this, I think Mrs P ought to have answered this question differently too.
It follows that I think Mrs P failed to take reasonable care when answering the above 
questions.
Aviva has provided their underwriting criteria which shows, had Mrs P answered these 
questions correctly, then they wouldve sought further information from her GP so they could 
fully consider her application. I appreciate R feels Aviva are overstating Mrs Ps mental 
health issues in the preceding years up the application. But, based on the available medical 
evidence and Avivas underwriting criteria, Im satisfied they wouldnt have offered cover to 
Mrs P when taking into consideration her mental health and alcohol history. This means Im 
satisfied Mrs Ps misrepresentations were qualifying. Ive therefore looked at the actions 
Aviva can take here in accordance with CIDRA.
CIDRA sets outs the remedies an insurer can take when a qualifying misrepresentation has 
occurred. And the remedy depends on how the misrepresentation is classified - either 
deliberate or reckless or careless. Both classifications however allow an insurer to avoid 
the policy and refuse any claim when, had the correct information been disclosed in the 
application, cover wouldnt have been offered. So, I cant say Aviva has acted unfairly by 
avoiding the policy and returning the premiums irrespective of how the misrepresentations 
are classified. 
The only difference here would be that premiums should be refunded in cases of careless 
misrepresentation whereas, the insurer can retain the premiums if the misrepresentation is 
deliberate or reckless. As Aviva has refunded the premiums, Im satisfied that the estate of 
Mrs P has received the most favourable remedy in line with CIDRA  even if Aviva 
considered the misrepresentations to be deliberate. I think this is fair. 
On a final note, Aviva has paid £250 compensation to Mr P for the delays in handling the 
claim. I think this is a reasonable amount in the circumstances. I realise this will be 
disappointing outcome for Mr P but, for the above reasons, I think Aviva has acted fairly by 
avoiding the policy and refusing the claim. I therefore dont think they have to do anything 
further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman