DRN-3937657
The complaint
Mr H complains about delays in Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard refunding an 
overpayment made to his credit card account. Hes also unhappy with the level of customer 
service he received when trying to resolve the matter.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for 
these reasons:
Due to an error with his banking app when paying his credit card, two payments were 
debited from Mr Hs account. Mr H told Barclays about this once he noticed the 
problem and asked for the overpayment to be refunded to his account. He did this via 
Barclays webchat, as instructed. Barclays adviser explained it would take around 
one working day for the funds to show in Mr Hs credit card account, and once that 
happened, they could arrange a refund for him. Unfortunately, the refund wasnt 
arranged until three days later, but when that happened, Barclays adviser explained 
it could take up to four working days for the funds to show in Mr Hs current account.
Understandably, Mr H wasnt particularly happy about the time it would take for him 
to receive the refund. However, his concerns were exacerbated as he was away on 
holiday at the time and the overpayment had caused his account to be overdrawn. 
Mr H has explained he has a young family, and this was their first holiday away 
together. Hed also worked hard to raise the funds to afford this trip which meant he 
didnt get to spend as much time as he would have liked with his family to afford it. 
So, its reasonable that he would have been additionally upset and concerned when 
he didnt have access to the funds hed saved to enjoy his first family holiday. Mr H 
expressed this to Barclays, and while I do think they were taking steps to resolve 
things for him, it was disappointing to see an adviser ask Mr H to think of things from 
their perspective. I dont think that comment was helpful or necessary  particularly 
given the problems Mr H was experiencing were out of his control. Its for this reason, 
Barclays needed to do something to put things right.
Barclays has paid Mr H a total of £250. This is to recognise the worry and 
inconvenience caused by their mistakes, the impact this had on Mr Hs holiday, and 
to cover any charges applied to Mr Hs current account when it was overdrawn. 
However, Mr H doesnt think this award goes far enough. Hes said it doesnt 
sufficiently recognise the worry he had regarding affording food and petrol when he 
was away. And due to the delay in receiving his refund, he had to borrow money from 
his wifes family and use money theyd put aside for their children to buy presents for 
family members.
Its clear that what should have been a happy time for Mr H to look back on, has 
somewhat been tarnished by his experience with Barclays. And there were things 
that Barclays got wrong. However, I cant ignore the fact the refund was processed 
on a Friday and in Mr Hs account on the Monday  meaning it was cleared within 
one working day. Its just unfortunate it took place over the weekend. I also must 
place weight on the fact Barclays had told Mr H he could use his credit card to 
withdraw cash while he was away, and they would waive the relevant fees given his 
circumstances. I think that was an appropriate thing to offer at the time to ensure 
Mr H had access to funds without having to worry about the additional costs that 
normally come with using his credit card in that way. So, while Mr H may have been 
unable to use his money exactly as hed planned, he still had access to funds when 
he was away. I cant hold Barclays responsible for any additional worry if Mr H didnt 
take them up on their offer.
The £250 offered by Barclays is in line with what I would have suggested had they 
not already taken steps to put things right. I consider that award fairly recognises the 
disappointment and worry Mr H experienced at a time he should have been able to 
focus on enjoying time and making memories with his family. Because of this, I wont 
be asking Barclays to do anything further to resolve Mr Hs complaint.
For these reasons, while I appreciate Mr Hs frustrations, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman