DRN-4294242
The complaint
Miss R complains that Bradford & Bingley Limited (B&B) sold her life assurance and critical 
illness cover that she didnt need. 
What happened
Miss R took out a mortgage in 2002. When taking it out, B&B recommended and sold Miss R 
life and critical illness (CIC) cover to protect the mortgage in the event she died or contracted 
a critical illness.
In 2022, Miss R complained. She said she hadnt needed the life and CIC protection, 
because she had cover from her employer and other assets she could have used to pay off 
the mortgage.
B&B partially upheld Miss Rs complaint. It said shed been single with no dependents at the 
time the mortgage had been taken out, and so thered have been no one whod have stood 
to benefit from the mortgage being paid off by the life cover if shed died. So it offered to 
refund the portion of her premiums thatd been used to pay for life cover (and associated 
waiver of premium benefit).
But B&B said that, despite having other similar cover, being protected to the value of her 
mortgage in the event she was diagnosed with a critical illness could still have been of 
benefit to Miss R. So it thought the recommendation to take out CIC had been suitable, and 
didnt offer to refund that part of the premium. 
One of our investigators looked into things, and thought B&B had acted fairly. He said there 
wasnt any evidence Miss R had been told she had to take out this cover in order to secure 
her mortgage. And overall he thought the CIC policy was a suitable thing for B&B to have 
recommended. He noted Miss Rs other assets (which included another property, and some 
endowment policies) and the cover she had in place from her employer. But he concluded 
that the CIC policy provided cover that she didnt already have, and that was reasonable for 
B&B to have recommended. So he didnt think B&B needed to do anything further.
Miss R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. She said that the 
policy she had from her employer provided substantially similar cover to the one B&B had 
sold her, and up to a similar value. She maintained that shed not needed or wanted the CIC 
policy shed been sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
B&B recommended the life assurance and CIC policies to Miss R. They needed to ensure 
the advice was suitable for Miss Rs needs and objectives. Everyone now agrees that Miss R 
didnt have a need for life cover at that time  as she was single with no dependents. Im 
pleased to see B&B have put things right by compensating Miss R for that in line with our 
services longstanding approach.
The remaining dispute concerns the CIC policy. I have read and considered Miss Rs 
arguments about this in detail. I can appreciate she felt she had similar cover and that this 
policy wasnt a necessary cost for her. But I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for B&B 
to have recommended it, and Ill explain why.
Miss R had assets in excess of the value of her mortgage in 2002. But these were mainly in 
property or policies which were yet to mature  and therefore not readily realisable. Ive also 
given considerable thought to the existing policy Miss R held through her employer.
Miss R had cover that would have paid differing sums (for some circumstances, lump sums, 
for some, ongoing payments for a period of time). But that policy wasnt specifically to 
protect her mortgage, and Ive not seen evidence that it would have paid out enough to 
cover Miss Rs whole mortgage in the same circumstances B&Bs policy would have. In the 
event she had unfortunately suffered a critical illness during the life of the policy, there would 
have undoubtedly been countless costs and expenses for which her employers policy would 
have been useful to her. 
But in principle, having a standalone policy such as the one B&B sold her, in order to cover 
her remaining mortgage wasnt unsuitable to recommend. The cost of the policy was 
affordable, and it would have paid a sum sufficient to cover this large specific debt in the 
event of a critical illness  leaving Miss Rs other assets and policies to support her. So I 
dont think taking out this CIC policy was an unfair or unreasonable thing for B&B to advise 
Miss R to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman