DRN-3596251
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Acasta European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta) 
unfairly declined a claim under their building guarantee.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs G or Acasta refers to any respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs G held a guarantee with Acasta that covered works completed by 
Company A in 2018.
In September 2020 there was a leak, and Mr and Mrs G contacted Company A to 
resolve the matter but found it was no longer trading. 
Mr and Mrs G contacted Acasta who carried out an inspection and repairs to the 
flashings and valley trays. But it said repairs to the internal damage wasnt covered 
by the guarantee as it excluded consequential loss or damage.
Following some back and forth the leak continued, and Mr and Mrs G say they 
sought the opinions of multiple roofing contractors who confirmed the most likely 
cause of the leak was Company As previous works. So, they appointed Company B 
to carry out repairs. Following further leaks, Company B carried out further works.
Mr and Mrs G contacted Acasta again. They said the Company Bs evidence showed 
Company As works were poorly completed and Acastas previous inspection was 
inadequate. And they said the internal damage had become worse due to Acastas 
initial decline causing a delay in repairs. They complained and requested Acasta pay 
around £5,800 for external works, and £2,100 for internal works. 
Acasta declined the claim. It said its repairs from October 2020 had shown the 
flashings and valley trays were adequate, and that the original works completed by 
Company A were limited to re-tilling/slating and valley trays/liners and not the 
membrane, batten and valley timbers  and that the damage here was caused by an 
issue with the underfelt and valley timbers which werent replaced by Company A.
Acasta also said it wasnt liable for any consequential loss or damage and that no 
cover would be provided for any items or works carried out that wasnt stated within 
the suppliers contract.
The Investigator looked into what happened and upheld it. She acknowledged the 
policy didnt cover works not included within the suppliers contract  but as this 
wasnt available it wasnt fair to decline these works on this basis. 
She said Mr and Mrs Gs invoice for the external works was not itemised, so it wasnt 
reasonable for Acasta to pay these in full, but she asked it to reconsider these costs 
upon receipt of an itemised breakdown. And in regard to internal works, she said 
there wasnt evidence to support these repairs were necessary due to a failure in the 
works covered by the guarantee.
Mr and Mrs G said it may be difficult for them to provide a more detailed report. 
Acasta disagreed, saying Company A had not replaced the membrane, batten or 
valley timbers. And that due to the leaks being caused by a problem with the 
underfelt and valley timbers  these were not covered. It also said the works carried 
out by Company B were for new valley timbers and repointing of brickwork and 
fascias  all works unrelated to the previous Company A works. 
The Investigator looked again and didnt change her mind. She said it is 
unreasonable in this case for Acasta to say the cover was limited to the suppliers 
contract when what was contained within this isnt available to consider.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for similar reasons to our Investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs Gs guarantee says:
For a period of 10 (ten) years from the Date of Completion noted above, the 
Company hereby guarantees all materials and workmanship against defects that 
may appear or incur in the Works after the Date of completion, subject to 
exclusions and conditions
The term Works here refers to Loft extension structure  roof, floor, exterior and 
interior walls and stairs. Ground floor Box Frame structure, associated beams and 
walls. Opening for Bi-fold doors. Lateral restraints and associated floor noggins.
This means Mr and Mrs Gs guarantee provides covers against defects in the 
materials or workmanship that occur only within the works originally completed by 
Company A.
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs Gs roof had been leaking and that 
there were problems with the roof. Company A completed repairs to valley trays and 
flashing around October 2020. But it has said other damage that has since been 
repaired by Company B falls outside of the scope of the guarantee as it relates to 
works that were never completed by Company A.
Mr and Mrs G attribute all of the damage to the works completed by Company A and 
say theyve been given opinions from roofers and Company B that support this. But 
from what Ive seen, the evidence from Company B includes a quote for works and 
an invoice for works. These simply dont comment on the cause of damage or explain 
how this relates to Company As works. Nor have I been given opinions from other 
roofers or experts that explain how Company A or Acastas agents who completed a 
repair were responsible for the damage that followed.
Acasta has declined this claim in part as it says the works in question were not 
included within the original suppliers contract. Im in agreement with our Investigator 
that it is unfair to limit a claim in this way without being able to provide this contract to 
show what the limitations are, or any evidence to support how it established this. 
But as a starting point, Im not satisfied Mr and Mrs G have provided sufficient 
information to persuade me that all the damage in question is covered under the 
guarantee. I say this as the invoice provided includes extensive works to the property which doesnt break down which parts of the damage is related to the previous works 
nor the cause of it. 
To be clear, its possible Acasta may be responsible for this damage and works. But 
at this time and based on the evidence Ive been given and seemingly what Mr and 
Mrs G have presented to Acasta, Im not satisfied this is the case. 
Mr and Mrs G have also sought to claim for internal damages. They were asked to 
provide further evidence to support this, but weve not received anything. Acasta has 
said consequential losses arent covered by this guarantee. Given Im not satisfied 
Acasta is liable for the external works at this time, Im satisfied it has fairly declined to 
cover any of the related internal works.
Mr and Mrs G said obtaining a more detailed report would be subject to further costs. 
If they do obtain an itemised report detailing the cause and breakdown of the works 
undertaken by Company B, Id expect Acasta to reconsider the claim against the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy in the light of the new evidence. Acasta 
should also consider paying reasonable costs of any such report if this changes the 
position of the claim and it leads to the guarantee claim being accepted.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im directing Acasta European Insurance Company Limited to 
reconsider the claim in line with its remaining terms and conditions upon receipt of further 
evidence from Mr and Mrs G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman