DRN-1930359
 
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Bastion Insurance Company Limited (Bastion) turned down his claim 
under his Home Emergency Policy.
What happened
Mr Gs wife contacted Bastion to make a claim on the home emergency policy because the 
key got stuck in the front door of a rental property they owned. Bastion turned it down 
because it said it wasnt an emergency.
Bastion then turned down two separate claims made by Mr G when the boiler wasnt working 
properly, as it didnt think either incident met its criteria to be classed as an emergency.
Mr G complained to Bastion. It confirmed that it was correct to turn down his claims.
Mr G complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint and said that two of 
the three claims should have been accepted. She said Bastion should pay Mr Gs costs for 
having the repairs carried out for those two claims and pay him £100 compensation.
As Bastion didnt agree with these findings, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 26 May 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
For a home emergency claim to be accepted by Bastion it must meet the definition of an 
emergency as described in its policy and also meet the terms and conditions of the relevant 
part of the policy for the incident.
Bastions policy document defines an emergency as follows:
Emergency means a sudden and unexpected event, which is reported to us within 24 
hours of first noticing the fault, and which if not dealt with, would, in the reasonable opinion 
of the helpline: 
render the home unsafe or insecure; or 
damage or cause further damage to the home; or 
cause personal risk to You.
For the first claim, the key got stuck in the lock to the front door and it wasnt possible to 
remove it. This meant that although the front door could be closed, someone walking along 
the street could potentially open the front door. Bastion said it wouldnt deal with the issue as 
it wasnt an emergency.
When Mr G complained about this, Bastion said:
This call occurs at 13:20. The agent explains to your wife that this is not an emergency and 
as it is during the day, you will still have to call a locksmith as our policy will only complete a 
temporary fix. He explains that it is still during the day and that you would need to get a 
locksmith out in any event. We again note that your wife wants the lock repaired. We 
reiterate that this policy is only a rectification policy and provides relief from an emergency 
so that you can get the fault repaired.
In its response to Mr G, Bastion said that the incident wasnt an emergency but didnt explain 
why this was the case. Looking at what happened, the claim was made within 24 hours of 
the incident and I think it is reasonable to regard a key stuck in a front door as making a 
home insecure. On that basis, Im satisfied that the incident met the definition of an 
emergency.
Bastions policy says that it provides cover as follows:
Security 
We will assist You to make Your home secure following an emergency arising from the 
sudden and unexpected failure of or damage to external locks fitted to doors and windows 
where the failure or damage is such so as to render the Home unsafe or insecure. 
We do not cover: 

f) Replacement of defective locks unless there is no way of making the Home secure 
overnight; 
g) Any broken and/or damaged external locks, doors or windows which does not cause a 
security risk to the insured property;
Bastion emphasised the time of day that the issue was reported. The policy doesnt list 
specific times of day within which an incident must have occurred for it to be a valid claim. 
The reference in the policy to overnight is about the property being secure, not that the 
claim needs to be made overnight. 
Bastion also seems to be arguing that as it was during the day time, Mr Gs wife would be 
able to call someone else out and that this was also the only way to get the lock repaired. If 
Mr Gs wife did call someone else out, I think that was likely to be an emergency locksmith 
because of the risk presented by the key being stuck in the front door. I can therefore 
understand that Mr Gs wife might have expected to be able to call out an emergency 
locksmith through this policy, rather than to call out an emergency locksmith directly at 
additional expense.
Ive also considered Bastions view that because Mr Gs wife wanted the lock repaired that 
she would have to call someone else out anyway and that Bastion would only complete a 
temporary fix.
Bastions policy says:
Assistance means the work undertaken by the engineer during a call out to the Home to 
complete a temporary repair to limit or prevent damage or, if at similar expense, the cost of 
completing a permanent repair, in respect of the cover provided.
The policy therefore clearly says that it will carry out a repair and that this would be either a 
temporary or permanent repair depending on the circumstances.
Having thought about all of the above, I dont think Bastion was fair or reasonable in how it 
dealt with the claim and its reasons for turning it down werent in line with the terms and 
conditions in its policy.
Mr G also tried to make two claims for issues with the boiler. The same definition of an 
emergency applied as above. The wording in the policy also said:Primary Heating System 
We will assist You to restore heating and/or hot water to Your Home following an Emergency 
arising from the sudden and unexpected complete failure of the primary heating system. We 
will only attend to one primary heating system failure during the period of cover in Your 
schedule. Before assistance can be provided, You must provide Us with proof of servicing. 
Failure to service Your primary heating system will result in Your claim being denied. 
We do not cover: 

p) Reoccurring or intermittent faults, nor boiler/ system noise where the boiler is still 
functioning;
For the first incident, Mr G told Bastion that there was no central heating or hot water at the 
property. It didnt send an engineer because it said that it didnt meet the definition of a home 
emergency. In Bastions written response to Mr G, it said this was because when he was 
asked whether the home was unsafe, there was a risk of further damage or a personal risk 
to him, Mr G said no.
Based on the information Mr G first gave Bastion, it was potentially reasonable to turn down 
the claim, as it didnt seem to meet any of the tests that the call handler needed to use to 
decide if it was an emergency. However, during the same phone call, Mr G gave some 
additional information, which was that there was a baby at the property. Bastion doesnt 
appear to have given any consideration to this new information to see whether it might 
change its view on whether it was an emergency. 
Bastions complaint response said This information [the baby] only comes to light after your 
claim has been denied. Our claims decisions are based on the information you provide us 
with during your call to us and unfortunately this was not disclosed to us.
Bastion also said that it turned down the claim because the presence of a baby wasnt 
disclosed during the call. However, by Bastions own admission, the baby was referred to. In 
my view, Bastions unwillingness to reconsider the claim when Mr G provided further 
information was unreasonable. Its later explanation for why it didnt do this was also 
incorrect.
Bastions response also said:
You contact us 3 times from your mobile number and we receive a further 6 calls from your 
partners mobile number. These calls to us continue for well over an hour. During these calls 
you attempt to make a claim 3 times after your initial claim has been denied. An emergency 
is something that needs immediate attention and no emergency is occurring as this time as 
you clearly have time to flood our call lines instead of arranging assistance for your boiler.
Mr G has said that he phoned Bastion several times because he wanted to see if the claim 
could be reconsidered. He also wanted to raise a complaint about the original call handler. 
However, he said that each time he phoned, he kept getting through to the original call 
handler, who would sometimes hang up on him. Mr G would then phone again to try and 
speak to someone else.
In the circumstances, I dont think Bastion was reasonable in how it dealt with the claim. It 
should have considered the information about the tenants baby to see if this changed its 
decision about whether it was an emergency. Bastion was also incorrect in the explanation it 
later provided about the reasons that it turned down the claim. I also dont think it was fair or 
reasonable for Bastion to say that Mr Gs repeated phone calls were evidence that there was no emergency when, as Bastion itself says, the purpose of a number of those phone calls 
was to try and register a claim for an emergency.
Mr G also tried to make a claim related to the boiler because there was a problem with the 
hot water. This was turned down because the call handler decided that it was an intermittent 
fault.
The decision on whether a claim is accepted is down to the reasonable opinion of the 
helpline. In this case, Mr G told the helpline that the water would start to warm up and would 
then go cold and that this happened each time he tried to get hot water. The call handler 
decided that, based on this description, it was an intermittent fault.
Bastions policy doesnt define what intermittent means, but reading this part of the policy in 
context it says that the emergency needs to arise from a sudden and unexpected complete 
failure of the primary heating system. The hot water system was still working even though it 
wasnt fully heating up so it wasnt a complete system failure. On that basis, I think it was 
reasonable for Bastion to turn down the claim.
However, Im also aware that when Bastion responded to our investigators view, it said: 
You will note that the client has been advised that it needs to be an emergency for 
assistance to be provided. The agent also explains to Mr G that he cannot claim for the 
same fault twice.
The claim wasnt turned down on the basis of it being the same fault as previously. I listened 
to the phone call where Mr G tried to make a claim and he specifically asked whether it was 
turned down on the basis of the previous boiler call. The call handler said no and that it was 
on the basis of the current issue being an intermittent fault. Bastion was therefore incorrect 
to say that the claim was turned down on this basis.
Bastion also told our investigator that its highly unusual for someone to have three 
emergencies in the space of a few months and that Mr Gs issues were actually 
maintenance issues, which the policy doesnt cover. However, the policy doesnt say that it 
will only deal with one claim per year. Claiming, or attempting to claim, more often is within 
the terms of the policy, even if it isnt typical. Bastion also seems to be suggesting that the 
multiple issues indicate a lack of maintenance of the home. I dont accept this argument. I 
cant see that there is a clear link between a boiler breaking and a key getting stuck in the 
front door lock or that it is reasonable to automatically infer that this shows a lack of general 
maintenance.
Bastion has also argued that an emergency is something that requires immediate 
assistance. In its reply to our investigator, it went through the incidents and applied a test of 
whether someone would phone 999 about them. It then argued that because the emergency 
services might decide that something wasnt an emergency that for insurance purposes, it 
also wasnt an emergency.
Nowhere in the policy does it say that the claims will be considered on the basis of how the 
emergency services define an emergency or that it needed to be an issue that the 
emergency services would deal with. Also, where someones boiler breaks down or there is 
an issue with a lock, there are very few circumstances where phoning the emergency 
services would be a reasonable way to deal with it, but I would think it reasonable to try and 
make a claim via a home emergency policy.
Having thought about all of the above, my current view is that I dont think that Bastion was 
fair or reasonable in turning down Mr Gs first two claims or in how it responded to his 
complaint, including the reasons it then gave for turning down the claims. As a result, Im minded to say that Bastion should pay Mr G compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. The investigator said Bastion should pay £100 compensation. 
However, having reviewed all the details of this case, I think that a higher amount, £300, 
more appropriately reflects the distress and inconvenience caused.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 25 June 2020.
Mr G responded and said that he had nothing further to add.
Bastion Insurance didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the view that this complaint is upheld.
Putting things right
Having reviewed all the details of this case, Bastion Insurance must pay Mr G £300 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that that 
this complaint is upheld. Bastion Insurance Company Limited is required to:
pay Mr G £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 

Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman