DRN-2748687
The complaint
1 brings a complaint about Arch Insurance (UK) Limited (Arch). It says Arch has unfairly 
declined to cover professional fees and related VAT.
Any reference to 1 or Arch includes any agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known so Ive summarised events.
1 made a claim under its Arch Residential Property Owner insurance policy following 
an escape of water. This was agreed and settled with the exception of some 
professional fees 1 sought to claim for which totalled around £1,400. 
The fees in dispute included the shutting off of water, arrangement of emergency 
repairs for the leak, arrangement of quotes, and quality checking of works after 
completion of repairs. 1 also sought to claim VAT on top of these costs.
Arch said it didnt consider these costs to be professional fees as defined by the 
policy. And instead these were costs incurred to present the claim. It also questioned 
if 1 was VAT registered as no VAT number was presented.
1 brought the complaint to this Service and one of our Investigators looked into what 
happened. They didnt uphold the complaint, saying the policy wording explicitly 
excluded costs associated with repairing the leak. Also, the policy didnt cover 
arrangement of quotes, nor inspection of works, and these werent something wed 
expect it to pay in a claim like this. So, he felt Arch had acted fairly and the issue 
about VAT fell away.
1 disagreed, reiterating the costs were reasonable fees to be claimed for. It also 
questioned the timeline presented by Arch, saying it had notified Arch of its intended 
costs prior to settlement. It also said while the company in question was not VAT 
registered, VAT should be covered anyway. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The issue in hand in this case concerns the fees 1 seeks to claim for. Put simply, these fall 
into two categories:
The cost of shutting off the water/repair.
Costs associated with attending the property, arranging quotes, arranging repairs, 
checking quality of works, and preparing a report of damage and costs for Arch.
So, Ill consider these points in turn.
Repair
The trace and access part of the policy specifically excludes the cost of repairs to any 
fixed domestic water services
I think this term is clear, and as a result, I wouldnt expect Arch to cover any repair costs of 
this nature. So, Im satisfied it has fairly declined this part of the claim.
Other claim related costs
1 has highlighted a section of the policy it seeks to rely on in claiming fees. Under a heading 
Architects Surveyors Legal and Other Professional Fees it says:
The Sum Insured under each item of Building in the Schedule includes an amount in 
respect of architects surveyors legal and other professional fees necessarily incurred in the 
reinstatement of the Property Insured consequent upon Damage thereto but not for 
preparing any claim.
Arch has argued these costs were not necessarily incurred and instead these were costs 
incurred when presenting a claim.
I wouldnt typically expect an insurer to cover the costs associated with any of the activities 1 
is seeking to claim for. Obtaining quotes, attending a property, and reviewing works, are part 
and parcel of making an insurance claim. These activities are routinely carried out by 
policyholders without professional support or representation. And I see no persuasive or 
fair and reasonable argument in this particular case to consider them necessary. As a result, 
Im satisfied Arch has fairly declined to cover these fees in line with its policy terms.
1 has disputed the timeline of events of when these costs were raised to Arch. However, 
when these costs were presented is of little impact in this case. I say this as ultimately the 
fees are still not covered by the insurance policy.
As these costs are not covered, the issue regarding VAT falls away and I see no reason to 
make a finding on this topic.
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 1 to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman