DRN-3354721
The complaint
Mr C complains that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) was 
irresponsible to lend to him.
What happened
Mr C took out a loan with Everyday Loans on 17 July 2019. He borrowed £3,000 and was 
due to repay £274.26 monthly for 18 months, until 1 January 2021.
Mr C says that Everyday Loans did not carry out proper checks when it agreed to lend to 
him. He said he had a serious gambling problem at the time and that Everyday Loans should 
have seen there was an issue from his bank statements. Mr C adds that he incurred charges 
on his account when he was told that wouldnt be the case and that Everyday Loans has 
done nothing to help him despite knowing about his financial problems.
Everyday Loans says Mr C complained that his branch did not provide a settlement figure 
when requested. It says this was because it needed to take into account the Covid 
deferment before it could generate an accurate figure and that Mr C declined the deferment 
on 30 October 2020. However, Everyday Loans confirmed the settlement figure of £1,903.53 
still stood and that no further interest would be applied to the account as it was moved to 
Recoveries on 29 December 2020. It adds that it was satisfied Mr C was treated fairly with 
regard to his gambling addiction.
Our adjudicator originally recommended the complaint should be upheld. She explained that 
Everyday Loans had not provided its business file for the affordability complaint and so, 
based on information provided by Mr C, she found there was evidence that Mr C was 
already struggling to manage his money at the time of the lending. She recommended that 
any payments made by Mr C should be deducted from the principal and that Everyday 
Loans should attempt to set up a suitable repayment plan for the remaining principal. She 
also said that any adverse information should be removed from his credit file.
Everyday Loans responded with its business file regarding the affordability complaint. It said 
it verified Mr Cs income from bank statements and used them, and his credit file to confirm 
his mortgage and other credit commitments. Everyday Loans says that it used a statistical 
average figure for Mr Cs other expenditure, and found the loan was affordable to him.
Following this new evidence, our adjudicator did not recommend the affordability complaint 
should be upheld. She was satisfied that Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks 
and that there was nothing in the available information to indicate the repayments were 
unsustainable for Mr C. She explained that Mr C should submit a separate complaint about 
the mistreatment of his account.
Mr C responded to request information about the new evidence. He provided bank 
statements which showed frequent cash withdrawals, a car finance loan and credit card 
repayments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the adjudicator explained, this decision will consider only the complaint about the 
affordability of the loan and whether it should have been approved. I understand Mr C also 
has a complaint about how his account was treated which will be considered separately.
With regards to the affordability complaint, I need to take into account the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Everyday Loans lent to Mr C. 
Its rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or
2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement; or
3. significantly increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a regulated 
credit agreement.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory obligation to 
make and without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers 
financial situation (CONC 5.2A.12R).
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.2A.16G (3): For the purpose of considering the customers 
income, it is not generally sufficient to rely solely on a statement of current income made by 
the customer without independent evidence (for example, in the form of information supplied 
by a credit reference agency or documentation of a third party supplied by the third party or 
by the customer).
And CONC 5.2A.17R (2) says: The firm must take reasonable steps to determine the 
amount, or make a reasonable estimate, of the customers current non-discretionary 
expenditure.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Cs loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Everyday Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
With regard to the first question, Everyday Loans has sent evidence that it obtained proof of 
Mr Cs income, checked his credit file and reviewed his bank statements. So Im satisfied 
that Everyday Loans carried out proportionate checks which showed:
Mr C was using the loan to purchase a car;
The lower of the two monthly incomes evidenced was £2,459.91 and his mortgage 
payment was £548.57;
Mr Cs other credit included:
oCar finance with a balance of around £2,000 and monthly repayments of 
£288.70;
oThree credit cards with a combined balance of £2,236;
One defaulted account from February 2016, which was satisfied in November 2016;
The average regular expenditure for someone in Mr Cs circumstances was £743 per 
month.
I acknowledge that Mr C sent evidence that showed his car finance and credit card 
payments, but these had already been taken into account in Everyday Loanss affordability 
calculation, which estimated he had £800 of monthly disposable income before the 
additional loan repayment. Everyday Loans also questioned the multiple transfers between 
accounts and Mr C explained he was in the process of buying a house and the transfers 
were for the deposit, plus saving for a wedding.Based on all the evidence Everyday Loans had, I cant see there was anything that should 
have prompted it to carry out further checks: Mr Cs credit file showed no current financial 
difficulties and there was nothing to indicate his expenditure was significantly different to the 
estimate used by Everyday Loans. I accept there were a number of cash transactions on 
Mr Cs bank statements, but I dont find it would have been proportionate to carry out the 
level of checks that would have been required to show that the money was used for 
gambling. Indeed, Im satisfied that the first time Everyday Loans was made aware of Mr Cs 
gambling was in an email he sent in September 2020.
In summary, I dont find Everyday Loans was irresponsible to lend to Mr C, but it still has an 
obligation to respond sympathetically to Mr C when setting up a repayment plan for the 
outstanding balance.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman