DRN-3188344
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy with the charges Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank applied 
to her account after she went into an unauthorised overdraft.
What happened
Miss F opened an account with Yorkshire Bank on 3 April 2019. On 13 June 2019 she went 
overdrawn following a debit card transaction. Because Miss F didnt have an agreed 
overdraft, Yorkshire Bank charged her unauthorised overdraft fees in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
In September 2019, Miss F complained to Yorkshire Bank about the overdraft charges. 
Yorkshire Bank reduced these by £100 as a gesture of goodwill, but Miss F made it clear 
that she didnt agree with the charges and wouldnt be paying them.
In November 2019, Yorkshire Bank closed Miss Fs account. Miss F complained that they 
shouldve closed the account sooner, instead of continuing to apply charges. Yorkshire Bank 
disagreed, so Miss F brought her account to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that a financial business pricing structure, interest rates and charges 
are a commercial decision, so arent something were able to consider. But we can consider 
whether Yorkshire Bank treated Miss F fairly and reasonably when they applied the charges.
The investigator said that the terms and conditions of Miss Fs account were clear as to what 
charges would be applied for an account in an unauthorised overdraft. And Miss Fs account 
was in an unauthorised overdraft. So, he thought Yorkshire Bank had acted reasonably by 
charging Miss F for having an unauthorised overdraft.
The investigator also said there were no signs that Miss F was in financial difficulties when 
she went overdrawn. And Miss F has said that she wasnt in financial difficulties at the time. 
So, the investigator didnt think Yorkshire Bank shouldve treated Miss F differently based on 
her financial circumstances; and he didnt think they acted unfairly by applying charges in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account.
But the investigator said that Miss F had told Yorkshire Bank, on 5 September 2019, that she 
didnt think the charges were reasonable and she wasnt going to pay them. So, he thought it 
was clear that the relationship between Miss F and Yorkshire Bank had broken down at this 
stage. And he thought that Yorkshire Bank shouldve defaulted Miss Fs account in 
September 2019, instead of applying additional charges and defaulting it at a later date.
So, the investigator recommended that Yorkshire Bank should backdate the default to 
September 2019, refund any charges applied after this date, and pay Miss F an additional 
£100 for the trouble and upset that continuing to apply charges caused her.
Yorkshire Bank didnt agree with the investigator. They said that defaulting Miss Fs account 
in September 2019 wouldnt represent accurate reporting as this would be based on how 
Miss F mightve dealt with her account instead of how she did deal with her account. Theyve 
said that they were only reporting four months arrears in September 2019, and they didnt 
default Miss Fs account until December 2019, when they were reporting six months arrears.
Yorkshire Bank also said that Miss F had funds in other accounts with them, so she couldve 
paid off her overdraft and charges in September 2019. And it was her decision not to do this. 
And closing her account prematurely and defaulting her in September 2019 wouldnt have 
been treating her fairly and wouldve denied her the opportunity to bring her account back 
into a positive position.
Because Yorkshire Bank didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. And in considering this complaint Ive 
had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good industry practice at the time.
The basic facts of this case arent in dispute. Miss F used her card to pay for fuel on 13 June 
2019, and this resulted in her account going overdrawn by £41.76. And Yorkshire Bank 
applied unauthorised overdraft charges in line with their terms and conditions. By 30 August 
2019, the charges had increased the amount overdrawn to £249.76.
On 5 September 2019, when using Yorkshire Banks chat function to discuss her account, 
Miss F clearly told them this has left me with charges of £249 which I will not pay. 
Yorkshire Bank agreed to waive £100 of the charges but told Miss F that she had funds in 
her savings account that could be used to clear the remaining fees. In reply, Miss F said I 
wish for {my account} to be closed and sent to a debt agency as I will now be moving banks 
and definitely not paying for said charges. Can {my account} be closed as to not occur more 
charges please and referred to an agency asap.
In their letter of 21 October 2019, Yorkshire Bank acknowledged that Miss F was not willing 
to pay any funds into this account. But they continued to keep the account open, and to 
charge Miss F unauthorised overdraft fees. Yorkshire Bank eventually closed the account on 
28 November 2019, when the account was £549.76 overdrawn. And they didnt instruct a 
debt collection agency to recover the debt from Miss F until May 2020.
While Im satisfied that Yorkshire Bank acted reasonably by charging Miss F in line with their 
terms and conditions, I dont think they acted reasonably when closing the account and 
registering a default. Wed expect a default to be issued when any arrears have built up to 
an unacceptable level  usually between three and six months.
Miss F went overdrawn on 13 June 2019, and Yorkshire Bank have confirmed that, in 
August 2019, they were already reporting the account as being three months in arrears. On 
9 August 2019, they wrote to Miss F and told her that, if she didnt pay enough money into 
your account to bring your balance back into credit within 30 days, they would close your 
account and pass your details to our Financial Care Team. The 30 days Yorkshire Bank 
gave Miss F to rectify her account expired on 8 September 2019.On 5 September 2019, Miss F clearly told Yorkshire Bank that she had no intention of paying 
the charges and asked for her account to be closed and the debt passed to a debt collection 
agency. And Yorkshire Bank had already told her that her account would be closed if she 
didnt bring it up to date by 8 September 2019  which she didnt do. Because of this, Im 
satisfied that Yorkshire Bank acted unfairly by keeping the account open, and continuing to 
charge unauthorised overdraft fees, until 28 November 2019.
Putting things right
For the reasons stated above, Yorkshire Bank shouldve closed Miss Fs account on 9 
September 2019. And, because she was between three and six months in arrears at the 
time and had clearly said that she wasnt prepared to make any payments; then they 
shouldve also defaulted her account at the same time.
So, Yorkshire Bank should:
refund all charges applied to Miss Fs account on or after 9 September 2019;
backdate the default to September 2019, ensuring that this date is corrected with the 
credit reference agencies; and
pay Miss F £100 for the trouble and upset caused by them continuing to charge 
unauthorised overdraft fees for almost three months after telling Miss F they would 
be closing her account.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Miss Fs complaint. And Clydesdale Bank Plc 
trading as Yorkshire Bank must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman