DRN-3536137
The complaint
Ms D says after she made a claim on her motor insurance policy, Aviva Insurance Limited 
sold her car without her consent and didnt pay her enough compensation.  
What happened
Ms Ds car was written-off after a non-fault accident. Aviva offered her £1,482 for it, although 
it later increased the offer to £1,773. Ms D said there was an avoidable delay in finalising the 
offer for six weeks. She said she needed at least £7,000 to replace the car  and when she 
later bought a new one (for £20,000) she said she thought Aviva should pay for it. Aviva 
accepted that its salvage agent sold Ms Ds car in error. It offered her £500 compensation, 
plus £150 for personal items that were left in the car, and £848 towards car hire. 
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Ds complaint. She thought Avivas valuation was 
reasonable. She noted that it had deducted sums for the car having been a total loss 
previously and also for pre-accident damage, which she thought was fair. She thought the 
compensation Aviva had paid Ms D was also reasonable. She said although Ms D wanted 
her premium for the year to be returned - on a pro-rata basis  shed benefitted from the 
policy, so Aviva was entitled to keep it. But Ms D said Aviva didnt pay her for hire, as the 
other drivers insurer did that. She said shed been forced to pay a lot to replace her old car, 
and that Aviva had acted illegally in selling it. So she thought it should pay her more. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The maximum payable for Ms Ds car under the policy is its market value. We think the best 
way of establishing a cars likely market value is to check the valuations provided in the 
national trade guides. Ms Ds initial valuation was done on the basis that she wanted to 
retain the car, so a salvage retention sum was deducted. As the car was then sold in error, 
Aviva reviewed the valuation. The engineer looked at the trade guides and we later checked 
them as well. The average valuation for the car, using three guides, was £2,336. 
We think its fair to deduct up to 20% of a cars value if it has been written off previously. I 
note that Ms D doesnt think her car was classed as a total loss after a previous accident. 
But theres evidence on the file that shows it was written-off in 2020, so I think Avivas 15% 
deduction was reasonable. We also think its fair for an insurer to make a deduction for pre-
accident damage, as long as its limited to half the estimated cost of repair. In this case, 
Aviva has shown that repairing the pre-existing damage to Ms Ds car was likely to have cost 
many times the deduction it made of £394, so I think that was reasonable too. 
Based on the trade guide average and the deductions, I think Ms D could have been offered 
less than £1,773 for her car. But Aviva says its engineer noted a few local sales prices and 
increased the valuation, so Avivas offer was based on more than the cars market value as 
shown in the trade guides, so I think that was reasonable. Ms D says she couldnt have 
replaced the car with a similar one for less than £7,000 - but Ive seen no evidence of that, 
and I think all Aviva was required to do was to pay the cars market value. Ms D later chose 
to buy a new car that cost £20,000, but I dont think she was forced to do that by Aviva, as 
shes suggested. In my opinion, its not reasonable to expect Aviva to pay any more for her 
car than it has done.
 
Although Ms D says Aviva didnt pay towards the hire costs she ran up - when the other 
insurer stopped paying for hire after a month - the file notes refer to the specific sums Aviva 
says it paid. I think its unlikely the other insurer would have covered the extra cost of hire, if 
it thought Aviva was taking too long to deal with the claim, as Ms D maintains. But either 
way, it seems Ms D wasnt left out of pocket for hire costs, so theres no loss to address. And 
it looks as though she didnt ask Aviva for a partial refund of her premium. I dont think she 
was due a refund anyway, as shed made a claim on the policy, so she had the benefit of it.
 
Aviva offered Ms D £150 for the personal items that were left in her car. She hasnt 
commented on that sum, but I think it was reasonable. Aviva accepted that there was some 
delay on its part in getting an updated valuation for Ms D. It also accepted that her car 
shouldnt have been sold. I think that was a serious error, although I dont agree with Ms D 
that it was probably illegal. In my opinion, the £500 Aviva has offered Ms D in compensation 
is a substantial sum, so I think it has made a reasonable effort to try to put matters right.
Ms D went through a very stressful period from the date of the accident onwards. She says 
the next six weeks were mentally draining. I think some of the stress Ms D faced was 
unavoidable, as being involved in an accident and having to make a claim are stressful in 
themselves. No doubt the situation was made worse by the dispute about the valuation - 
although I think Ms Ds expectations about that were unrealistic. She says the worst part was 
finding out her car had been sold. I can see that it would have been very upsetting for her, as 
well as inconvenient. Although I sympathise with Ms D, given the position she found herself 
in, as I think Aviva has acted reasonably overall, I cant uphold her complaint. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 
22 September 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman