DRN-3764942
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund money he lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr S was searching for an investment opportunity online. He says that he left his details on 
the website of a well-known price comparison company and subsequently received a call 
back from whom he believed was an agent of that website. It was recommended that he 
purchase a bond in the investment arm of a high street bank (that Ill call B). 
He called the number he was given and spoke to someone that Ill call M. M said that a 7-
year bond at 2% interest would be suitable and that the investment would be fully protected 
by the FSCS.
Mr S says that after this call he conducted thorough due diligence. Hed been the victim of a 
very similar scam two years before and, I presume, wanted to ensure that he did not fall foul 
of the same experience. A complaint about Lloyds refusal to refund his losses from the 
previous scam was referred to our service, but the complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr S says he undertook significant due diligence before going ahead with the investment, 
including:
- Reviewing the companys website.
- Checking the FCA registration of the company.
- Researching M, as well as other individuals he subsequently spoke to.
He also says that he called B on the telephone number listed on the FCA website and asked 
to speak to M. M wasnt available but, he says, he received a call back from M shortly 
afterwards. Mr S claims that M appeared aware of the earlier call and reassured him about 
the investment.  
After receiving further documentation from M setting out the details of the bond and sending 
his identity documents, supposedly for anti-money laundering purposes, Mr S agreed to 
invest. 
He made a series of payments to two different accounts:
13 May 2021 - £9,527.40
14 May 2021  £19,897.60
20 May 2021  £20,575
Mr S spoke to Lloyds once before the payment on 13 May 2021 and several times before the 
payment of 20 May 2021. During the call prior to the 13 May 2021 payment, Lloyds provided 
some advice about scams but Mr S reassured it that hed carried out significant due 
diligence prior to going ahead. During one exchange before the final payment, it questioned 
why he was making a payment for an investment with B, but not paying one of its accounts. 
When Mr S asked the fraudsters about this he was told that the account he was paying was 
held at a subsidiary of B. The payment was cancelled but the fraudster arranged for another 
account, this time held by B, to be used and the payment was made the following day.  
After intermittent communication with M and several failed promises to get in touch, Mr S 
became concerned. He called B and, after eventually managing to speak to the real M, he 
realised hed been the victim of a scam. 
Lloyds considered the matter under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model CRM Code which requires it signatories, like Lloyds, to reimburse 
victims of APP scams like this one in all but a limited number of circumstances. Lloyds said 
that one of those exceptions applied  that Mr S hadnt done enough to protect himself  
highlighting the fact he paid accounts in different names to B and didnt check their actual 
website. 
It did think that it could have done more during the calls which took place before the third 
payment was released, so it offered to refund 50% of that payment - £10,287.50. It was also 
able to recover £3,097.61 from the bank accounts which received Mr S money.
The matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt uphold it. They 
didnt think that Mr S had a reasonable basis for believing that the recipient of his payments 
was legitimate and he was paying for genuine services. While they thought that Lloyds 
hadnt met its standards under the CRM Code by failing to provide an Effective Warning, 
they didnt think this would have made a material difference to the outcome as Mr S was 
confident in the checks hed carried out. They also thought that a better intervention by 
Lloyds would not have brought the scam to light for the same reasons.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that he didnt consider himself to be an experienced investor and 
had taken all the steps that had been recommended by our service after the previous scam. 
He felt that the investigators view was based on supposition and that had he been told by 
Lloyds that there was a strong chance he was being scammed then he would not have gone 
ahead. He also didnt understand why the investigator hadnt found Lloyds fully responsible, 
given they had accepted it didnt provide an effective warning.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about the loss that Mr S suffered here, particularly given his previous 
experience. But, having reviewed this matter carefully, I dont think Lloyds should do any 
more to resolve this complaint. Its important to note that I cant know for certain what might 
or might not have happened, so my role is to decide what I think is more likely than not, 
taking into account all the available evidence and arguments. 
The starting point, both under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms of Mr 
S account is that he, rather than Lloyds, is responsible for payments hes made himself. 
The CRM Code somewhat changes this position. Lloyds need to show that one of the 
exceptions applies to decline full reimbursement. If it can show such an exception applies, it 
still needs to demonstrate that it met its standards as a firm. If it didnt meet those standards 
and that failure would have had a material impact on preventing the scam, then it may also 
be partly responsible for the loss. Lloyds also has longstanding obligations to be on the 
lookout for unusual and out of character activity which might indicate its customer was at risk 
of financial harm from fraud. Lloyds argue that Mr S didnt have a reasonable basis for belief in making the payments, so 
Ive first considered this point. 
Its important to say that scams of this nature are often sophisticated and that was certainly 
the case here. The fraudsters have gone to some lengths to impersonate or clone a 
genuine business. They used an 0800 phone number, had a professional looking website, 
impersonated genuine bank employees and provided a reasonably substantial amount of 
paperwork about the investment. 
Ive taken all of that into account when thinking about the actions Mr S took. In addition, I 
need to be fair about the standard which I hold Mr S to. He seems to have had some limited 
experience of investing, but I dont think he was very experienced. And, Ive been careful not 
to examine events simply through the benefit of hindsight or using my own experience in this 
field.
Notwithstanding the above, Im struck by the similarities between this scam and the scam 
that Mr S fell victim to about two years prior. In the 2019 scam Mr S was contacted about 
investing in a fixed-term bond. He says that he carried out due diligence  including checking 
Companies House and the FCA register. And, when he realised there might be a problem, 
he contacted the real investment company who confirmed that hed been the victim of a 
scam.
There were some differences between that scam and this one (for example, in 2019 the 
fraudster did not impersonate a real person). It also seems that Mr S may have done a few 
more checks this time before going ahead. However, given his prior experience and the 
remarkable similarities between the two scams, as well as the fact that this was not a 
situation where Mr S found himself under any significant pressure to invest, Id have 
expected him to have been vigilant about the possibility of fraud.
He knew that firms could be cloned, he knew that paperwork could be faked too (as they had 
been in relation to the previous scam). He knew that people might claim to work for a 
business but didnt. With this in mind, Id have expected him to carry out additional checks at 
every step.
Mr S believes that he left his details on a popular price comparison website. He may have 
done this, but its very unlikely that the call he received back came from that website. Mr S 
has been somewhat inconsistent about the name of the website he visited. But neither of the 
price comparison websites he mentions offers this kind of bond and neither, as far as Im 
aware, do they operate by agents calling customers directly. The real websites only show 
rates for fixed-rate savings bonds. 
A simple online search would have shown that Mr S was not dealing with the real price 
comparison website and he would have known that anyone impersonating a genuine 
business should be treated with extreme caution.
Neither did he do anything to establish whether the person he spoke to actually worked for 
the price comparison website. Again, this would have been quite straightforward to do and 
isnt an unreasonable suggestion given his previous experience. Once offered the bond, Mr 
S doesnt appear to have checked the price comparison website to see if it was advertised.
Next he was given a telephone number and told it was that of B. But it wasnt and again an 
online search would have shown that it wasnt. A prudent next step would be to do a simple 
online search for B, find the product being suggested and call it on the number listed on its 
website. Instead Mr S called the number he was given. A simple online search of B would 
have also led him to an entirely different website. The paperwork Ive seen is also far from perfect, it has unusual use of language and is 
rather shoddily put together. 
Though Mr S did carry out checks, these were largely the same as he had done for the 
previous scam (and they hadnt been able to detect it). As far as I can see, two additional 
checks were made: a search for the named individual he spoke to and calling Bs number as 
listed on the FCA website.
While I can see that M is a genuine employee of B, he does not have anything like the same 
job title as M claimed. M appears to be a senior employee of Barclays and I cannot find any 
mention of the fixed income team. So, this search alone could not have given too much 
reassurance. 
Turning to the point on which Mr S puts most weight  the call to Bs genuine switchboard. 
While I havent seen any evidence that this took place, Id be surprised if he didnt do it given 
the circumstances. But, I find it a little coincidental that M was able to ring back within an 
hour. Mr S says that M apologised for missing the call  suggesting he was aware that the 
call had been made. But I cant see any reasonable way by which M would have known 
about the call Mr S made. Again, Id expect Mr S to be on guard here  to have waited for M 
to have confirmed that hed been called and to have checked the number which he was 
called from. 
Following his conversation with M, Mr S agreed to make a number of payments totalling 
£50,000. But he wasnt told to pay B directly, but rather two different companies  neither of 
which had an obvious relationship to B. It doesnt appear that Mr S did any research into the 
names of the recipients and simply accepted that they were linked to B. A quick search 
online for one of the recipients would, I think, have only given Mr S further cause for concern 
 as it appears to have operated a retail business, possibly related to vaping. 
Lloyds told Mr S that one of the banks he was paying was not, as he had been told by the 
fraudsters, a subsidiary of B. While, as Ill go onto discuss, Lloyds might have done more at 
this point, the fact hed been given incorrect information by the fraudsters should have also 
caused him further concern. 
As mentioned, I dont wish to hold Mr S to an unreasonably high standard and yet I would 
have expected him to be on the lookout for anything concerning about the investment 
opportunity. 
Neither would I have expected him to necessarily pick up on everything that Ive noticed that 
wasnt quite right. But he wouldnt have needed to have picked up on everything  just one 
or two things ought to have been enough to put him off, particularly considering that he 
spoke to Lloyds a number of times before the payments were made  all of which gave him 
time to reconsider. 
Overall, I think Mr S missed warning signs that, given his previous experience, he should 
have been alert to and that means that I dont think he had a reasonable basis for belief and 
Lloyds can fairly rely on one of the exceptions in the CRM Code to decline full 
reimbursement. 
Did Lloyds meet its own obligations?
Under the CRM Code, Lloyds has obligations, of particular relevance here is the obligation to 
provide an Effective Warning where it identifies a scam risk during a payment journey. 
When considering any warning given, consideration must be given to whether a warning is 
likely to have had a material impact on preventing the scam. As already mentioned, Lloyds also has longstanding obligations to be on the lookout for 
unusual and out of character transactions to protect customers from financial harm from 
fraud. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that both the first and third payments Mr S made 
were unusual and presented a heightened risk of APP fraud. This is what prompted Lloyds 
to intervene before both payments were made. 
Lloyds says it provided at least one tailored written warning during the scam. That warning 
said:
[customers name] make sure this investment is real
-Deals that look too good can be scams
-Do lots of research  good deals dont find you
-Use the FCA to check an adviser or company
I dont think this warning was effective. It fails, for example, to mention the consequences of 
proceeding with the payment and doesnt contain any information about how to check 
whether a firm has been cloned. 
It was also always unlikely to be effective in Mr S circumstances. What he was offered 
wasnt too good to be true  just a 2% return. He believed hed, and to a significant extent 
had, carried out plenty of research and also checked with the FCA. So, I dont think this 
warning was effective. 
Mr S would have also seen another, much less specific, warning. I havent reproduced that 
in full here, but it wasnt tailored to the scam risk and Im satisfied it wasnt effective in the 
circumstances.
Lloyds also provided some warnings about scams in the calls prior to the payments taking 
place. In the call prior to the 13 May 2021 transaction, Lloyds, among other things, asked 
him whether he had control of his account with B. This line of questioning wasnt particularly 
relevant to the circumstances Mr S was in. But Mr S did explain that hed previously 
experienced a scam and had taken all necessary steps  including checking the FCA 
website. Lloyds also asked questions relating to other common scams including how hed 
found out about the investment. Again, I dont think anything within this call constituted an 
effective warning under the CRM  the warnings were quite general and, as noted, werent 
always specific to the most obvious scam risk. 
But, at this point, given the checks Mr S had carried out, I dont think he would have been 
deterred by an Effective Warning that was tailored to the risk of cloned investment scams. 
He believed he was already fully aware of, and had already taken, the steps he needed to 
take to avoid falling victim to this type of scam, including contacting B on the telephone 
number on the FCA website. So, I dont think that an effective warning would have had a 
material impact on preventing the first two payments. 
Lloyds did recognise that Mr S was not paying an account in the name of B during the first 
call, but the account was held at B, so I dont think this fact alone was enough to cause 
Lloyds sufficient concern and I wouldnt have expected it, based on the risk presented, to 
have taken additional steps which might have uncovered the scam (such as asking for the 
contact details and website hed been given). As already set out, there were also a number of conversations that took place before the 
payment on 20 May 2021. During these calls it was identified that Mr S was not paying an 
account held at B. He went back to the fraudsters to question this and was ultimately given 
another account to pay. 
I agree with the bank that it should have done more during these calls. It identified that the 
bank Mr S was paying had nothing to do with B and it shouldnt have been reassured by the 
fact he put through the transaction again to an account held at B. At this point it was aware 
that hed been told a material falsehood by the fraudsters and, taking into account it spoke to 
Mr S for a significant amount of time, it could have taken some of the simple steps Ive 
outlined above (such as checking the website hed been given). So, despite Mr S doing 
plenty to reassure Lloyds, given the obvious risk here, I think it could have and should have 
identified he was likely falling victim to a scam and prevented further loss to Mr S.  
But, for the reasons Ive already outlined, I think Mr S had a role to play in what happened 
and that means that I dont find that Lloyds are fully responsible for the last payment. 
Instead, I think liability should be shared between Mr S and Lloyds. As Lloyds have already 
refunded half of the final payment, I dont find that it should do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
Finally Ive considered whether Lloyds did enough to try and recover Mr S money. It says 
that it contacted the receiving bank by about 5pm on the day Mr S reported the scam. I can 
see that Mr S reported the matter at about midday that day. While I think Lloyds could have 
taken action a little more quickly, Ive seen evidence from the receiving bank which shows no 
action would have made any difference  no transactions left the receiving accounts 
between Mr S reporting the matter to Lloyds and Lloyds contacting the bank which received 
his money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman