DRN-3797841
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) notified him of arrears on his
mortgage account dating back several years that he was unaware of.
What happened
Mr B says he received a notification telling him he owed £76.68 in arrears on his mortgage
account and that Barclays would inform credit reference agencies. Mr B says he doesnt
know how the arrears were possible as he has always paid for all of his mortgage related
accounts by direct debit and has never been in arrears as far as he knows.
Barclays has said that the arrears date back over 12 years and given the timescales
involved it no longer has account records to confirm when the arrears occurred, but it said
the funds were owed by Mr B and would need to be paid.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns and found that Mr B should have been made
aware of the arrears sooner. He recommended Barclays compensate Mr B with £200 for the
stress and inconvenience caused. Barclays agreed, but Mr B felt the award should be
higher, so the complaint was referred to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision on 
11 October 2022. Here is an extract of what I said:
Barclays explained that its records dont go back further than August 2012, and it thinks the
arrears pre-date this. Although Barclays doesnt have any records that explain what has
happened, it has suggested Mr B may have missed a contractual monthly payment (CMP)
one month, or that it is a result of technical arrears because Mr Bs direct debits are paying
his CMPs one month in arrears, every month. It told Mr B do to a GDPR request for
information and that if anything came to light that proved he didnt owe anything it would
reconsider.
I dont think it was reasonable for Barclays to suggest Mr B make a GDPR request for
information  it either has the records available for this complaint or it doesnt. And without
any record of where the arrears may have come from, its impossible to work out what
happened. So, if Barclays cant evidence where the arrears came from and have only just
informed Mr B of them after many years, I dont think its right to expect to him to pay it now.
As Mr B is now aware he is making his CMP payments one month in arrears  he may wish
to correct this to prevent any future problems.
Barclays also referred to a previous complaint from Mr B about something similar in 2014.
Looking at the notes in relation to this, it appears Barclays had been applying fees since
2012 due to one of Mr Bs mortgage accounts having reached its end date and not being
repaid in full by Mr B. At the time, Mr B said that the account should have had the same end
date as his other mortgage accounts. It seems Barclays resolved the matter by bringing the
end date in line with his other accounts and refunding all the fees it had charged. It also
awarded some compensation to Mr B. Theres also a note, around the same time, to say that
Mr B had missed one months payment, but it was clarified this had been paid the following
month, so was not outstanding.
Considering the previous complaint about arrears was raised in 2014 and there was also
confusion about one months arrears around the same time, if £76.68 had been owed  I
would have expected it to have come up as part of these discussions. The mortgage
accounts will also have been reviewed several times over the years and I think Barclays has
had more than enough opportunities to be aware of any arrears pre-dating August 2012. For
example, every time the interest changed or when every annual statement was produced.
So, it should have informed Mr B sooner if he was in arrears and as Ive said above  I think
it would need to evidence when and where the arrears occurred if it expects him to pay it
back now.
For these reasons, I dont think its right for Barclays to have pursued Mr B for the funds.
Looking at the mortgage transaction history, it appears Mr B has already made the payment.
If he has, I think Barclays should refund it to him because Barclays has not been able to
prove Mr B owes anything and Mr B has been denied the opportunity to pay it at an earlier
date.
Mr B says Barclays called him every day except Sundays from 27 January 2022 to
30 April 2022 and hes provided evidence of his call records to support this. Mr B was also
understandably concerned about any impact to his credit file, particularly as he says he
intended to apply for lending soon after the problem arose. So, I think this situation will have
caused Mr B quite significant stress and inconvenience over these months. Barclays has
already agreed to offer Mr B £200 for the stress and inconvenience caused, but I think £300
would be a more appropriate amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Barclays and Mr B have accepted the findings of my provisional decision and no further 
information has been provided. So, Ive reached the same outcome as my provisional 
decision and for the same reasons, which Ive set out above. 
Barclays should compensate Mr B for the stress and inconvenience caused to him as Ive 
explained below.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should:
Refund Mr B £76.68 if he has already paid it.
There should be no adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file  although 
I note Barclays says there has not been any.
Compensate Mr B with £300 for the stress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Hanna JohnsonOmbudsman