DRN-3572346
The complaint
Miss J says Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly lent to 
her.
What happened
This complaint is about three catalogue shopping accounts Shop Direct provided. 
The first account opened in August 2014 with an opening balance of £600. There were 11 
increases and the credit limit reached £3,500 in October 2016. The second account 
started in November 2014 with an opening balance of £400. The credit limit increased 
twice until it reached £800 in November 2015. The third account started in November 
2014 with a limit of £500. This had one credit limit increase to £600 in September 2015. 
The changes to the credit limits was not always to make them larger. There were 
reductions in the credit limits too.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Js complaint and thought that Shop Direct ought to 
have realised Miss J simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by 
the time it increased her credit limit on the first account to £3,500 in October 2016. Shop 
Direct agreed with our adjudicator and so did Miss J initially. As a result, Shop Direct 
calculated redress and made a payment to the third-party debt collection agency it had 
passed the account to in 2019. Subsequently, Miss J became dissatisfied with this 
outcome and the resulting calculation of redress and she asked for the matter to be 
reviewed. So, the complaint has passed to me for a decision. 
It is not the purpose of this decision to assess whether Shop Direct has correctly 
calculated the redress it has already paid. But as an offer has been made on the case, 
this decision will assess whether the offer is fair in principle. In this case that means I 
must consider whether the complaint should have been upheld earlier in the life of Miss 
Js accounts; i.e. is Miss J entitled to an earlier date to be used in the calculation of 
redress. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss J could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Shop Direct should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These 
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought Shop Direct shouldnt have 
provided Miss J with any further credit from after the credit increase in September 2016. 
In brief, Miss J had a history of increasing her balance when the credit limit was 
increased. And when the balances on the accounts grew, Miss J was unable to make 
much progress in reducing the balance when it had grown. So, our adjudicator felt a time 
had been reached in September 2016, when there was a significant risk that increasing 
Miss Js credit limit in these circumstances would lead to her indebtedness increasing to a 
level she couldnt afford to repay. 
I think that Miss J lost out because Shop Direct provided her with further credit after 
September 2016. In my view, Shop Directs actions unfairly prolonged Miss Js 
indebtedness by allowing her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added got her into further debt. So, Shop Direct was asked to 
put things right. Shop Direct agreed to this and they have already calculated redress 
accordingly and made payment to the third-party debt recovery agency that now have the 
account. 
But should the complaint be upheld from an earlier time in the life of the accounts? Having 
reviewed all the submissions made in this case, I dont think so. I will explain why.
Miss Js complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. It is not 
straightforward trying to determine affordability because Miss J has not been able to provide 
any bank statements from the times in question. Shop Direct has explained that it carried 
out a credit check using a credit agency to determine the amount of credit it was able to 
offer, and considered the credit file and Miss Js management of the account with regard to 
credit limit increases and decreases. Its possible that Shop Direct failed to make adequate 
checks before providing Miss J with credit. But even if thats true, I dont think better 
enquiries would have caused Shop Direct to think the initial credit limits and the subsequent 
credit limit increases were unaffordable. 
I say this because the initial credit limit and early credit increases were modest and the 
maximum monthly payments would have been relatively modest. And even when the credit 
limits were not modest, Miss Js management of these accounts was generally very good 
until sometime after the last credit increase in 2016. So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Miss J to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Shop Direct to think that the credit it 
provided Miss J was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Miss J was 
managing her account or what Shop Direct could see of her management of other credit 
ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did. 
I know that Miss J will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Miss J to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to award any further redress than has already been suggested by our 
adjudicator and agreed to by Shop Direct.
 
Because the redress has been discussed post assessment, I include a description of how 
the redress for this case was to be calculated.  
Putting things right
Rework Miss Js accounts to ensure that from October 2017 onwards interest 
is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £3,900 across the 
accounts, including any buy now pay later interest, (being the credit limit in place 
before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit increases should 
have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should also be removed; 
and
If an outstanding balance remains on the accounts once these adjustments 
have been made Shop Direct should contact Miss J to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan for these accounts. Once Miss J has repaid the outstanding 
balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Js credit file 
from after September 2016 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss J, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. Shop Direct should also remove any adverse information from Miss Js 
credit file from October 2016 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to take off tax from this interest. Shop 
Direct must give Miss J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Miss Js complaint. Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited has already agreed to calculate that redress and has made a payment to 
the third-party debt agency as a consequence. So, I make no further award against Shop 
Direct Finance Company Limited in this case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman