DRN-4007064
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) has unfairly handled a 
subsidence claim made under their home insurance policy.
Any reference to Mr and Mrs C or HDI includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known between parties, so Ive summarised events.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs C made a subsidence claim under their HDI policy after noticing 
cracking to internal and external walls of their home. 
HDI accepted the claim. It appointed a loss adjuster who determined there was 
structural movement occurring, centred around the propertys side extension. And 
this was near a neighbours tree and hedge that was likely to be the cause.
HDI said the neighbours vegetation was significantly reduced prior to its loss 
adjuster attending. And it carried out level monitoring over the next 15 months to 
establish if the pruning of vegetation had allowed the property to recover and 
stabilise  which it said appeared to have worked, so there was no need for further 
stabilisation measures. 
HDIs loss adjuster emailed Mr and Mrs C in February 2016 advising them of the 
above but recommending simple superstructure repairs were carried out. It said the 
policy excess was £1,000 and the cost of the repairs was likely to be less than this, 
so it would await Mr and Mrs Cs comments to see if they wished to go ahead on this 
basis. HDI says Mr and Mrs C never replied so it didnt do anything further. And Mr 
and Mrs C never had the repairs completed, so the cracks were not filled.
Some years after Mr and Mrs C were with a different insurer (Company A). And they 
made a claim for subsidence under that policy. They said the existing cracks had 
worsened and following a gas leak they had lifted the floor and noticed the extent of 
the crack.
Company As respective expert reviewed the damage and said it was a continuation 
of the 2014 claim. It said HDI should be responsible given it failed to carry out 
geotechnical site investigations or exploratory works, and its reliance on crack 
monitoring without any mitigation works left the subsidence cause unaddressed. It 
concluded the cause of the current damage was still the neighbours tree.
Mr and Mrs C approached HDI again providing Company As comments. HDI stood 
by its previous position, and said if the damage from 2014 had been resolved as the 
movement didnt reoccur until the recent claim. HDI wasnt persuaded Mr and Mrs C 
were able to demonstrate that the movement occurring was as a result of the same 
cause as the previous damage.
The complaint came to this Service and our Investigator upheld it. She said HDI had 
previously recognised the neighbours tree was the cause of subsidence but didnt 
take appropriate steps to address this.
So, she directed HDI to establish the cause of movement and carry out a lasting and 
effective repair to put things right. She also awarded £300 in compensation. 
Mr and Mrs C agreed but HDI didnt, saying:
oNo significant movement had been recorded during the 15-month period of 
monitoring it carried out  which shows stability was achieved at the time. If 
further movement was detected, it wouldve taken further steps/investigation.
oIts loss adjuster did say removal of vegetation would be more desirable, but it 
belonged to a neighbour and there was no evidence of further movement in 
order to insist on further tree work.
oIt said the same damage reported was as a result of the same cause, it 
agreed it would investigate the matter further.
oIt proposed to appoint a further independent specialist to complete the 
investigations required, allowing it to clarify if the movement and cause 
remain the same as the initial incident.
Our Investigator looked again but didnt change her mind. She said HDIs comments 
about stability being achieved were based on the movement not becoming worse, 
and while the movement hadnt accelerated, it hadnt improved or stopped. She said 
the report suggested the most desirable option was to remove the tree but HDI had 
never contacted the neighbour to discuss this  which she wouldve expected. And 
had the vegetation been removed, the subsidence cause wouldve likely been 
resolved, allowing for an effective and lasting repair.
The Investigator said even if Mr and Mrs C had carried out superstructure repairs, as 
the property was still moving, the continued movement wouldve led to further 
damage. And that reliance on the neighbour maintaining their vegetation without 
discussion left Mr and Mrs C in a position without an effective and lasting repair to 
the subsidence. And she wasnt persuaded a further report was required given HDIs 
previous actions.
HDI still disagreed, disputing that the movement hadnt stopped or improved during 
its monitoring. It also argued the cost of repairing the loss or damage is covered, not 
the cost of preventing future subsidence. And that its repairs must last for a 
reasonable period, which it maintained has happened here. It said the possibility of a 
different cause of movement needs to be considered, and the requirement of 
subsidence expert to complete these investigations is imperative. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint sits with the investigations and works carried out by HDI 
throughout the 2014 claim. HDI is obligated to handle claims promptly and fairly, and 
wed expect any solution to be effective and lasting.
Its not in dispute that the recognised cause of the damage at the time was the 
neighbours vegetation. Nor that HDIs expert at the time described the removal of 
the vegetation as desirable. 
In HDIs final response to Mr and Mrs C it describes the methods insurers will use to remedy subsidence. It said:
insurers will recommend removal, pollarding or thinning of the vegetation. 
The property will be monitored over a period of the time to allow the soil to 
rehydrate and to ensure that following this, the building has stabilized, i.e. 
stopped moving down.
Im in agreement with all of HDIs comments here. And pollarding or thinning of the 
vegetation may stabilise a property in many cases. Seemingly here, based on the 15 
months monitoring the neighbours recent thinning of the vegetation, this action may 
have led to a period of stability, or at very least, the movement impacting Mr and Mrs 
Cs property not becoming worse. 
Having reviewed all of the reports produced by HDIs expert, they make no reference 
to ever contacting the neighbour or reaching any agreements around maintenance or 
regular pollarding. So, on its face, it seems to me that while the neighbours actions 
may have temporarily stabilised the property, this would inevitably reoccur if left 
unaddressed. 
HDIs reasoning for not pursuing this line of action at the time was the monitoring did 
not support the movement was ongoing, therefore it could not argue the tree needed 
to be removed. But I fail to see why no discussion was had with the neighbour at all 
around this given HDIs obligation to ensure such action was effective and lasting.
HDI has argued its policy is not designed to prevent future incidents, and again Im in 
agreement with this position in principle. But here I think the lack of any future plan 
around the vegetation would not have been simply a preventative measure, but an 
assurance HDIs actions were going to be effective and lasting. And in the absence 
of it taking these further steps, Im satisfied HDIs remedy at the time was not 
effective and lasting.
So, Im directing HDI to take over the claim in line with its terms and conditions. At 
this stage, it seems clear that investigations will need to be carried out. I will leave 
this to HDI to determine  subject to any repairs or actions it takes to resolve the 
cause of damage will need to be effective and lasting.
HDI has said there is a possibility that the cause of the damage/subsidence may be a 
new issue. I accept this is possible, and should such a matter be established, it will 
be for HDI to evidence the cause does not fall under its liability in line with its policy 
terms and conditions. But on the face of it, Im satisfied this is the most likely cause, 
and it is HDIs responsibility to take over this claim.
For completeness, I recognise Mr and Mrs C did not complete the repairs suggested 
previously. HDIs expert described these as:
All that will be required is simple crack filling both internally and externally 
and redecoration of the affected rooms.
Im satisfied these superficial repairs most likely would not have altered the position 
Mr and Mrs C now find themselves in, so this doesnt change my mind.
As a result of HDIs actions, any necessary investigations and repairs to Mr and Mrs 
Cs home will have been delayed by some time. I think this is an avoidable delay, and 
taking into account these circumstances Im persuaded £300 compensation is fair in 
these circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold this complaint. HDI Global Specialty SE must:Take over the claim, investigating the extent of damage and carry out an effective 
and lasting repair  in line with its terms and conditions.
Pay Mr and Mrs C £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
HDI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and 
Mrs C accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman