DRN-4300408
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the information BISL Limited gave her in relation to a claim she 
made under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mrs M took out a motor insurance policy provided by BISL. The motor insurance 
cover was underwritten by an insurer, A.
Mrs M got in touch with BISL after her car was damaged when another car drove into 
the back of hers.
As Mrs M wasnt at fault for the accident, BISL referred her to another company, E, to 
arrange for the damage to be repaired. Through other companies, E arranged for 
collection of Mrs Ms car. She says additional damage was caused to her car after it 
was collected. E arranged for the damage it thought was caused by the accident to 
be repaired  but not the additional damage Mrs M said was caused after collection.
Mrs M complained to E about what had happened. When it wasnt resolved to her 
satisfaction, she referred it to this Service. In a separate complaint, we said we 
couldnt look into a complaint about E and the other companies involved in collecting 
and repairing the car as they werent carrying out a regulated activity.
Mrs M then made a complaint to BISL. She didnt think it had treated her fairly by 
referring her to companies outside of her insurance policy, who werent carrying out 
regulated activities within the scope of this Service. She asked BISL to pay the cost 
of repairs to the additional damage. And she questioned why the legal cover on her 
policy couldnt be used to help her in this situation.
BISL said when it spoke to Mrs M, it had given her two options. One, to proceed 
under her policy with A, which would likely mean paying her policy excess. Or two, to 
proceed with E, which wouldnt mean paying an excess. Mrs M chose the second 
option. It said the legal cover on the policy didnt cover civil damages not directly 
related to a motor incident.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said BISL hadnt clearly 
explained the advantages and disadvantages of the two options to Mrs M  in 
particular, that proceeding with E would mean stepping outside of a regulated 
contract of insurance. If it had been clearer, he thought Mrs M would likely have 
taken this option anyway, but she would have understood the consequences of doing 
so. He asked BISL to pay £150 compensation. He didnt think BISL could be held 
responsible for any damage caused by the other companies.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint, I wont be reconsidering or commenting on the earlier complaint 
about our jurisdiction to consider the actions of E or the other companies involved in 
repairing and/or collecting Mrs Ms car.
Ill only be considering the actions of BISL. Thats the call it had with Mrs M, in which 
it referred her to E.
During such a call, Id expect BISL to be clear with Mrs M about the options available 
to her. This includes, but isnt limited to, setting out that proceeding with E would be 
separate and different to claiming on her motor insurance policy with A. And that 
would mean stepping outside of a regulated insurance contract, which would likely 
mean losing the option of alternative dispute resolution, such as this Service.
Ive listened to the call, and Im not satisfied BISL was sufficiently clear with Mrs M. 
Whilst BISL did indeed mention both options, it didnt outline all of the key 
considerations for Mrs M when deciding which option was best for her. For example, 
it didnt explain that proceeding with E would mean stepping away from the contract 
of insurance or the consequences of that. It focused on a key benefit of proceeding 
with E  that Mrs M wouldnt have to pay an excess upfront.
Had BISL been sufficiently clear with Mrs M, I think its likely she would have 
proceeded with E anyway. She says she wasnt in a position to pay her excess to A 
upfront. So avoiding that by proceeding with E would likely have appealed to her, 
even if that meant stepping away from the insurance policy. But at least then Mrs M 
would have been aware of the potential risk  and, when she thought additional 
damage had been caused to her car, she wouldnt have been shocked and 
disappointed to find out she had no recourse through this Service.
In these circumstances, Im satisfied that £150 compensation is reasonable to reflect 
the shock and disappointment Mrs M suffered when she found out she would have 
no recourse against E  as a result of BISL not fully explaining things to her.
Mrs M has questioned why her legal cover cant be used to help her. The cover on 
her policy is specifically Motor Legal Protection, rather than broader legal expenses 
cover. Ive considered the policy and it doesnt cover the kind of damage Mrs M says 
was caused after collection. That doesnt mean her legal cover has been invalidated 
because of whats happened  it simply doesnt cover this situation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require BISL Limited to pay £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
James NevilleOmbudsman