DRN-3587988
The complaint
Mr S is a sole trader. He complains about the way National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) closed his business and personal accounts, and in particular that it took too long 
to release the money he held in them.
What happened
Mr S held a personal account and business account with NatWest. 
NatWest conducted a review of its relationship with Mr S in August 2020. This led the bank 
to end the relationship and it sent notice to Mr S on 17 August 2020 that it would be closing 
his accounts with immediate effect. There was a closing balance of around £7,700 and 
£1,500 on Mr Ss personal and business accounts respectively, for which the bank provided 
Mr S a funds release form to arrange the transfer of the money. 
Mr S says that he initially completed and submitted the funds release form shortly after the 
accounts were closed  but it was only after repeated calls and emails, and a further 
submission of the form, that the bank released the funds several months later. The personal 
account balance was released on 26 January 2021 and the business account balance a few 
days later, on 1 February.
In response to Mr Ss complaint about how NatWest had handled the closure of his 
accounts, the bank said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss accounts allowed for them to be closed 
immediately in certain circumstances, and that decision wouldnt be changed.
Its timescale for the release of funds was 28-60 days, but it hadnt processed Mr Ss 
form in line with this. 
To put things right, it offered to pay 8% interest on the amounts from 5 October 2020 until 
the date they were released and pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the delay.
As Mr S wasnt happy with the banks offer, he asked us to look into things. He highlighted, 
in particular, that he had originally provided a funds release form in August before 
completing a second form in October as the bank had misplaced the original. 
NatWest subsequently offered to increase its offer of compensation by £100. Our 
investigator thought this revised offer was a fair way to put things right, as:
She didnt think NatWest had done anything wrong in closing the accounts in the way 
it had.
There had been a delay in releasing the funds, as the bank had accepted. She 
couldnt see that the bank had received Mr Ss funds release form until 5 October 
2020, so she agreed that was the point from which the bank ought to have acted on 
his instructions. And the offer of 8% interest on the balances from this date until they 
were released was in line with our usual approach to issues of this nature.
She noted that Mr S had to chase the bank up a number of occasions and borrow 
from friends while awaiting the release of the funds. For the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the banks delay, she thought £300 was fair compensation.
Mr S didnt accept our investigators view. He thought the bank had closed his accounts in 
response to his fraud claim and maintained that hed provided a funds release form much 
earlier than 5 October 2020. He didnt think the compensation was sufficient, and asked that 
this be increased to £2,000.
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think NatWests offer to put things right is fair  so Im not requiring it do 
anything more than it has already proposed. Ill explain why.
After completing its review of Mr Ss accounts, NatWest decided to withdraw its services 
from Mr S. That was a decision it was entitled to make. The terms and conditions allowed 
the bank to close the companys account immediately in certain circumstances. I think this 
was reasonable in light of the findings of the banks review.
I understand from Mr Ss comments that he believes NatWest only decided to end its 
relationship with him in light of the fraud claim he raised and he doesnt think thats fair. I 
wouldnt expect a bank to terminate a relationship solely because a fraud claim was raised, 
and I dont think thats what happened here. The fraud claim appears to have prompted the 
bank to conduct a review, and the findings of that review then led the bank to its decision. 
There was nothing unreasonable in that.
Id expect NatWest to have dealt with the release of Mr Ss funds within a reasonable 
timescale  and I dont think it did. While the bank has accepted this, there is still a dispute 
as to when the funds ought reasonably to have been released. 
NatWest has accepted responsibility for the delay from 5 October 2020, being the date it 
received Mr Ss completed funds release form. Mr S says this was the second form he 
submitted  and that hed submitted one much earlier, shortly after the accounts were closed 
in mid-August. But hes not been able to provide any documentary evidence of this, such as 
proof of postage. While thats understandable, it does mean I dont have anything to confirm 
when Mr S sent it or indeed to show that it was ever received by the bank. Mr S has 
explained that he didnt chase the bank up in the interim as it had said that the release could 
take up to 60 days, so it doesnt seem there was a point at which this couldve come to light 
any earlier than it did.
NatWest could only release the funds when it had Mr Ss instructions  by way of the funds 
release form. Based on what Ive seen, I think the bank received this on 5 October 2020. So 
that is the earliest it couldve released the funds. Its offered to pay 8% simple interest on the 
funds from this date until their release, which I think is a fair way to compensate Mr S for 
being deprived the use of this money.Mr S hasnt told us that he suffered any financial losses as a result of being without the 
money, so the only remaining question is whether he was caused any distress or 
inconvenience by what happened. I can see that he spent a lot of time and effort chasing the 
bank on a number of occasions from October onwards, by phone and email, with the funds 
not released for around three months. He also had to make other arrangements while 
without the funds, although I think there was always going to be some need to do so for the 
period prior to 5 October given what Ive said above. Taking into account everything Ive 
seen, I think £300 is fair compensation for the distress and inconvenience that the banks 
delay in releasing the funds caused Mr S.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Calculate 8% simple interest per year on the closing balances of Mr Ss accounts 
from 5 October 2020 to the date of their release and pay this amount to Mr S, and
Pay Mr S compensation of £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman