DRN-2930195
The complaint
Miss R complains that Family Equity Plan Limited trading as OneFamily, removed the 
Lifestyling element from her Child Trust Fund (CTF) without notifying her of the change.
Miss R is being represented. All references to Miss R will include information provided by 
her representative.
What happened
In 2017 the UK Government removed the Lifestyling requirement of CTFs which had 
previously been mandatory. The Lifestyling feature was there to reduce the amount of 
assets held in stocks and shares and move these into cash-based funds in the years leading 
up to the CTF holders 18th birthday. This was designed to protect the investment from 
reducing in value without having time to recover before maturity. In 2017 OneFamily decided 
not to continue with this feature and it gave all relevant CTF holders notice of its decision.
In September 2020 Miss R complained saying she and/ or her representative werent notified 
or consulted, and their consent wasnt sought regarding the change. OneFamily rejected the 
complaint saying that it sent multiple notifications to customers of the change including 
inserts in statements sent subsequent to the initial notice. OneFamily said that because the 
letters were produced in bulk by its third party mailing house, it didnt keep entries on 
individual customer records. But it said Miss R fell into the category of customer that would 
have received the notices from 2017 onwards.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that the change was a legitimate 
commercial decision for OneFamily to make once the legal requirement was removed. She 
was also satisfied that OneFamily had notified Miss R of the change.
Miss R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter. She said if shed 
known of the change, her legal guardian would not have invested further into the account in 
the final year. She wants the payments made in that year to be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain my 
reasoning, I think its important for me to recognise Miss R and her representatives strength 
of feeling about this matter. And whilst Ive carefully read all the submissions and evidence in 
this case, my findings will focus on what I consider to be the central issues.
Miss R, via her legal guardian, who lll refer to as her representative, was notified by letter 
along with all relevant account holders about the removal of the Lifestyling feature of the 
CTF. I know Miss R says she and her representative didnt receive the notices referred to by 
OneFamily. But I can see the address OneFamily held for Miss R, which is still her address, 
was correct. So I think its more likely than not that she was sent notification about the 
change along with other customers. 
Its possible that some correspondence mightve got lost in the post, but if thats what 
happened, I cant hold OneFamily responsible for the actions of a third-party postal service. 
In any event, I cant safely say that she wouldnt have received any information about this 
change at all. I note OneFamily has provided copies of examples of letters as well as inserts 
sent with the statements. So, I think its more likely than not that Miss R via her 
representative was provided with the relevant information.
As the Lifestyling element of the CTF was no longer a legal requirement from 2017, I dont 
think OneFamily did anything wrong when it removed it from these accounts. A business is 
entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial judgement, to run its 
business in the way it sees fit. In its notice to Miss R, OneFamily did highlight the option to 
move to a new provider. So if Miss R didnt like the removal of the Lifestyling feature, she 
had the opportunity to move to another provider, free of charge. But by doing nothing, she 
indirectly agreed to carry on with OneFamily without the feature.
I appreciate Miss R says that the Lifestyling feature was the main reason why her 
representative invested in the CTF with OneFamily on her behalf. But Im also mindful that 
the government removed the requirement to provide the Lifestyling feature, so OneFamily 
was entitled to decide to remove it.
Im satisfied on all the evidence that there was no requirement for OneFamily to obtain 
consent from Miss R, or her representative before removing the Lifestyling element from her 
account. I think its obligation was to notify her of the change so she could make an informed 
choice about whether to change accounts to a new provider or remain with OneFamily. I 
consider it met with this obligation.
I know Miss R wants a refund of the money paid into her account in the year before its initial 
maturity date. And thinks she may have suffered a loss as a result of OneFamilys decision. 
But I cant fairly say that any losses have occurred as a result of any wrongdoing by 
OneFamily. So I wont be asking it to do what Miss R has requested.
For all these reasons, whilst I know this will be a disappointing outcome for Miss R, Im not 
upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman