DRN-4272543
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited cancelled her travel insurance 
policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs R booked a trip and in May 2022, she bought a single trip 
travel insurance policy underwritten by Admiral. The intended departure and return dates 
of the trip were 11 November 2022 and 21 November 2022 respectively. 
On 10 November 2022, the day before the intended departure, the trip provider 
cancelled the trip. Mrs R phoned Admiral the same day. In her initial complaint, Mrs R 
said that Admiral asked her whether she wanted to make a claim for cancellation of the 
trip or to cancel the policy. She says that she had no reason to make a claim against the 
policy and so the policy was cancelled. Admiral refunded £9.41 of the premium. 
Mrs R says that on the following day, the trip provider offered her alternative trip dates  
and on 17 November 2022, the alternative trip dates were confirmed. 
Mrs R says that when she phoned Admiral on 10 November 2022, it didnt offer to 
change the dates of her cover in case the trip provider offered alternative trip dates. She 
complained to Admiral. Admiral relied on the terms of the policy. It said that if it had been 
aware of new dates for the trip before cancellation it would have been able to change the 
dates but as the policy had been cancelled, it couldnt now do so. As a gesture of 
goodwill, it offered Mrs R a 20% discount if she took out a policy with it in the next 12 
months. Mrs R didnt think that was fair and pursued her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Admiral had 
treated Mrs R fairly. The investigator said that when Mrs R phoned Admiral on              
10 November 2022, it could have told her that she could change the dates of cover. She 
said that if Admiral had done that, Mrs R wouldnt have cancelled the policy until she 
knew what the trip provider offered in terms of alternative dates. The investigator thought 
that it was fair for Admiral to reinstate the policy and change the trip dates. 
Admiral didnt agree with the investigator. It said:
When Mrs R contacted it on 10 November 2022, she didnt say that the trip 
provider would offer alternative trip dates.   
It can change the dates of a single trip policy but it needs alternative dates to do 
that. 
Mrs R took out the policy in May 2022, so she had cancellation cover from that 
date, so its fair that it collects a premium for that. 
It provided a pro rata refund which is more than it was required to do. 
It cant reinstate a single trip policy once the dates of the trip have passed. 
It can offer a new policy with a 20% discount, as offered previously. 
The investigator considered what Admiral said but didnt change her view. She said that 
when Mrs R phoned Admiral on 10 November 2022, it could have changed the dates of 
the cover to give Mrs R time to establish new arrangements. Admiral said that it cant 
move trip dates to random dates as a placeholder, as it needs start and end dates. It 
asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so the complaint was passed to me to 
decide. 
My provisional decision
On 17 July 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case in which I 
indicated that I didnt intent to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
General Conditions
[]
8. Cancelling your policy
Single Trip
If the policy does not meet your requirements:
[]
(for policies that end 29 days after purchase, or later) you may cancel within 14 days 
of the date of purchase or when you receive your policy documents, whichever is 
later and receive a full refund. No refund will be due after 14 days, or once you make 
a claim or start your trip, whichever comes first. 
has Admiral acted unfairly or unreasonably?
I dont intend to uphold Mrs Rs complaint because I dont think that Admiral treated her 
unfairly or unreasonably. I say that because:   
The terms of the policy set out the rights and obligations of the parties. Strictly 
speaking, in the circumstances that arose here, Admiral isnt obliged to offer Mrs R 
a refund, as the policy was cancelled more than 14 days after the date of purchase 
or when Mrs R received policy documents. But Ive gone on to consider whether 
that provides a fair and reasonable outcome in this case and Mrs Rs contention 
that Admiral should have offered to change the policy dates.
The recording of Mrs Rs phone call to Admiral on 10 November 2022 isnt 
available. Its not in dispute that Mrs R told Admiral that her trip provider had 
cancelled the trip and that Admiral asked Mrs R whether she wanted to make a 
claim against the policy or to cancel it. 
At the time of the phone call, there was no suggestion that the trip provider would 
offer alternative trip dates. Mrs R says that on the following day, the trip provider 
offered alternative dates for the trip  which were subsequently confirmed on          
17 November 2022. In the circumstances that arose here, I dont think that on 10 November 2022,  
Admiral was required to offer to change the policy dates. No alternative dates had 
been arranged at that point. Admiral wasnt obliged to use hypothetical future dates 
as placeholders to maintain the policy. A single trip travel insurance policy is 
designed to cover a particular trip and its necessary to know the trip dates. So, I 
dont think that Admiral made an error or acted unfairly during the phone call of    
10 November 2022. 
Mrs R took out the policy in May 2022 and had the benefit of cancellation cover 
from that date. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to direct Admiral to either 
refund the premium or provide cover for new trip dates following cancellation of the 
policy. 
I appreciate that if Mrs R had known the alternative trip dates on                            
10 November 2022 she would have asked Admiral to change the dates and it 
would have done so. But thats not what happened here. As there were no 
alternative trip dates at that point, I dont think that Admiral needed to do any more 
than it did. 
Admiral provided a pro rata refund and has offered a 20% discount on a new 
policy. Thats more than its required to do under the terms of the policy. I dont 
think that Admiral has made an error here, so its also more than I would direct it to 
do. 
Considering everything and for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont propose to 
uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs R said that the trip provider made clear that her trip was cancelled and there was no 
option to rebook for an alternative date until a few days later. So, she wasnt able to tell 
Admiral about alternative dates when she phoned on 10 November 2022. Mrs R said that 
Admiral gave her the options of cancelling the policy or changing the dates. 
Mrs R acknowledges the policy terms but says that the insurers of friends with whom she 
was meant to travel offered to freeze their policy for a period in case they wished to travel on 
different dates. Mrs R found it disheartening that Admiral didnt do the same. She said that 
terms and conditions can be adjusted in certain circumstances, and she doesnt agree that 
Admiral didnt need to do any more than it did. 
Admiral didnt respond to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mrs R said that Admiral gave her the option of 
cancelling the policy or changing the policy dates. But in her initial complaint she said that 
Admiral didnt ask her whether she would like to change the dates of the policy  only 
whether she wished to make a claim for cancellation or to cancel the policy. In either case,  
in the circumstances that arose here, I dont think that Admiral acted unfairly. At the time of 
Mrs Rs phone call to Admiral, there was no suggestion that the trip provider would offer alternative trip dates, so Mrs R couldnt provide alternative dates. And I dont think that 
Admiral was obliged to use hypothetical future dates.  
I cant comment on the actions of her friends insurers, as I havent seen their policy terms 
and Im not aware of what information they gave to their insurers.
I agree that the terms and conditions of the policy arent the only consideration here. But I 
dont think that Admiral acted unfairly in cancelling Mrs Rs policy, providing a pro rata refund 
and offering a future discount. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs R but for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and 
above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman