DRN-2688255
The complaint
Mr S complains The Funding Corporation Limited (trading as Loanone Money Store) (TFC) 
mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a loan for £5,000 with TFC in July 2005 and bought the PPI policy at the same 
time. I understand the sale took place at a face-to-face meeting. The loan and the PPI were 
due to last for 61 months.
Mr S paid for the PPI policy with a single premium that cost him just over £2,220. This was 
added to the cost of his main loan. Over the loan period, Mr S was also scheduled to pay 
just over £1,239 in interest on the PPI loan. The PPI wouldve covered Mr Ss loan 
repayments for up to 12 months for each successful accident, sickness or unemployment 
claim he made. It would also have paid the outstanding balance of the loan if Mr S died or 
developed a critical illness.
Mr S says at no point was he told he was buying PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ss complaint upheld it. She thought the policys 
cancellation terms made it unsuitable for Mr S. TFC disagrees and so Mr Ss complaint has 
come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
TFC says it advised Mr S to take out the PPI. So it needed to take reasonable steps to make 
sure the PPI was suitable for Mr S in his particular circumstances and to advise him 
accordingly.
When TFC gave us its response to Mr Ss complaint it said the reason he applied for the 
loan was to consolidate some of his debts. More recently, its said the reason for the loan 
was only partly to consolidate debts and was partly also to buy a car. 
Knowing Mr S was (at least in part) consolidating some of his debts with the new loan, TFC 
shouldve considered Mr S may have wanted to refinance the loan again. And if Mr S wanted 
to do this and cancel the PPI policy early, he wouldnt have got a proportionate (or pro-rata) 
refund of the PPI premium hed paid. These cancellation terms made the PPI inflexible for 
someone who might want to repay a loan early and cancel a PPI policy, by making it more 
expensive to refinance. So with Mr Ss history, and especially bearing in mind Mr Ss loan 
was quite a long one, this single premium PPI policy wasnt suitable for him.
 
TFC says Mr S wouldve got a proportionate refund of his PPI if he repaid the loan early and 
cancelled the PPI policy. But thats not what the information on his credit agreement about 
early settlement of his account says (other than in relation to the 30 day cooling off period 
Mr S had when he first took out the PPI). 
TFC has also said Mr S didnt refinance the loan, so it doesnt think the policy cancellation 
terms wouldve mattered to him. But I must look at what happened at the time of the sale 
and whether the advice TFC gave Mr S then was suitable, not at what did (or didnt) happen 
later on. 
So TFCs comments dont change my conclusions on Mr Ss complaint. Because of what the 
cancellation terms meant for Mr S in his particular circumstances, I dont think TFCs 
recommendation to buy the PPI policy was suitable. It follows that I dont think Mr S wouldve 
bought the policy if TFC had advised him properly.
Putting things right
Mr S borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month. So Mr S needs to get back the extra hes paid. 
So, TFC should:
Work out and pay Mr S the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
I understand the debt was sold on to a third party in around the second year of the 
roughly five year term of the loan. The debt sold on to that third party may have been 
bigger than it would have been if Mr S hadnt had PPI. If Mr S paid more to the third party 
than he wouldve owed if there had been no PPI, then TFC should refund Mr S the extra 
he paid. 
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr S paid each month from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, TFC can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFC to take off tax from this interest. TFC must give     
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct The Funding Corporation 
Limited trading as Loanone Money Store to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman