DRN-3418838
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Assurant General Insurance Limited (Assurant) managed his 
claim, as he feels their actions led to the loss of important data.
What happened
In September 2021 Mr C made a claim on his mobile phone insurance. The screen of his 
phone had broken after his phone had slipped out of his pocket and hit the floor.
Assurant accepted the claim and arranged for the phone to be sent to them for a repair or 
replacement. They advised Mr C to backup the data on his phone before sending it in.
Mr C was unable to back the phone up as he couldnt access the phone due to the broken 
screen, so he added a note to the forms included with the phone explaining this and asking 
them not to wipe the phone.
A few weeks later he received his phone back with the screen repaired but it had been reset 
to factory settings meaning all the data on the phone at the time of the accident had been 
lost. 
Mr C complained about this as the data lost had sentimental value as well as financial loss 
involved. Assurant explained they are unable to keep any data on the device due to data 
protection. But given the note he had included, they accepted they should have got in touch 
with Mr C to confirm the phone would be wiped and to ask if he still wanted to go ahead with 
the repair. They paid Mr C £200 compensation in recognition of this.
Mr C referred his concerns to this service as he didnt feel this was enough to rectify things. 
Assurant offered a further £250 as a gesture of goodwill to resolve the complaint. Mr C didnt 
accept this, so the offer has been withdrawn.
Our investigator felt the £200 paid was a fair and reasonable resolution so didnt ask 
Assurant to do anything more. As Mr C remains unhappy it has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Assurant have accepted they should have got in touch with Mr C before proceeding with the 
repair and given the note he included making it clear he didnt want his data wiped, I agree 
they should have.
However, Assurant were clear on the phone and in writing that the data needed to be 
backed up before sending the phone for repair. 
In the letter sent at the point of the claim being accepted it said:
We want to ensure that you keep the things that matter most to you before sending your 
device to us such as pictures, music and apps. Make sure, where possible, that youve 
backed-up your personal data as it will be erased as part of the repair process, and restored 
your handset to factory settings by completing a factory reset or master reset. Please refer to 
your handset instructions for advice on how to do this.
This will restore the phones software to its original manufacturer settings and erase all data, 
settings and applications. Failure to do this may cause a delay in your device being 
repaired.
I understand Mr C wasnt able to back up the data as he couldnt access the phone due to 
the broken screen. But given the importance of the data on the phone, he could have 
contacted Assurant before sending the phone to see if they could assist him in backing up 
the data. There are other ways to back up phones so its likely they wouldve been able to 
assist him further.
I note that at the point of claim Assurant said they would aim to repair the phone but if they 
couldnt a replacement would be provided. So it was possible the original phone would never 
have been returned as a replacement may have been sent. So I think Mr C could have done 
more to try and secure his data given this knowledge.
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
We only cover the mobile phone, we dont cover the contents. This means that any pictures, 
software, downloads, apps, music or any other content is not covered by this policy so make 
sure you back it up regularly.. There are lots of ways to back up the contents of your 
mobile phone and we suggest you do this regularly so if you have a claim and you lose your 
mobile phones contents as a result you can download it on your new mobile phone and be 
up and running again in no time.
Taking account of this and the information Assurant provided about backing-up the data, I 
think £200 is reasonable. I say this because it fairly reflects the lack of service Assurant 
provided. I sympathise with the loss of photos and understand the financial loss Mr C has 
incurred but I think  Assurant were clear about the process once the phone was sent for 
repair and Mr C could have done more to mitigate his loss.
Im aware Mr C feels the compensation isnt £200 as he has had to pay £100 excess for the 
repair. However, an excess is payable for every claim and this would have been something 
he had to pay regardless.
My final decision
My final decision is that Assurant General Insurance Limited dont need to do anything more 
to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman