DRN-2821648
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Select packaged bank 
account which was taken out some time prior to September 2001.
Mr H says that, amongst other things, the account was changed to a Select account without 
his consent and he was unaware that he was being charged for the account.
What happened
An adjudicator looked at the sale of the Select account and she didnt think that this account 
had been mis-sold. Mr H disagreed and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has 
been provided, I dont think the Select account mis-sold. I will explain why. 
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I 
have to base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything 
that is available. And Ive started by thinking about whether Mr H was given a fair choice to 
take out the Select packaged bank account.
Mr H has said that the Select account was taken out without his consent and he was 
unaware of the monthly account fee. I have carefully considered this. Lloyds have been 
unable to provide much evidence from the time the account was taken out. But this is 
unsurprising considering that this account was taken out over 20 years ago. 
My understanding is that in 2001, the Select account cost £4 per month, and one of the 
benefits it provided was a £50 fee-free and interest-free overdraft facility. Whereas an 
overdraft on a fee-free account cost £5 a month to use. So, provided the account holder 
stayed within the £50 fee-free limit, they were potentially saving money having the Select 
account. It also came with breakdown cover  which I can see Mr H went on to use.
So, given the evidence from the time of the sale, it seems as if the benefits that the account 
came with couldve been attractive as Mr H went on to use the breakdown cover in May 
2001 and he likely held an overdraft at the time of the upgrade. 
I also note that he obtained interest rates on personal loans that that were unavailable to 
standard current account holders at the time. Therefore it seems likely that Mr H was able to 
benefit from receiving preferential interest rates on loans as a result of having the Select 
account. 
So overall, I think that it is more likely that Mr H agreed to the upgrade, albeit in 
circumstances he no longer recalls, as the account benefits were of use to him at the time. I 
also think that the cost of the account wouldve been highlighted to Mr H during the sale, as 
it wouldve been listed in all the post-sale correspondence and on the monthly bank 
statements issued after the sale. 
I note that Lloyds cant provide actual proof that Mr H agreed to the account but as stated 
above, due to the sheer amount of time since this sale occurred, this is not unusual and 
does not necessarily mean that the account was mis-sold or that the account was upgraded 
without Mr Hs consent.
Mr H and Lloyds both say that a personal recommendation was made. So Lloyds had to 
ensure that the Select account was a reasonable fit for Mr Hs circumstances at the time. 
In this instance, as said above, I think the major two benefits that the account came with 
couldve been useful to him. So I think that the recommendation by Lloyds was not 
unreasonable.
In addition to making sure the account was right for him, Lloyds also had to give Mr H 
important information about the account. Its not clear what information he was given during 
the sale, and I accept that he may not have been given all of the important information about 
the account. But Ive not seen anything specific that makes me think he wouldve been put 
off from agreeing to the account, had he been given more information about it. 
I understand that this will be frustrating to Mr H and I accept with the benefit of hindsight the 
account may not have provided value for money. I also can understand that due to what Mr 
H may have read about the sale of packaged bank accounts, he may feel that his account 
was mis-sold. But we treat each case on an individual basis, and in this instance, I think that 
Mr H was sold the account correctly, albeit on balance, and therefore I dont think the Select 
account was mis-sold.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about his Select 
account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman