DRN-3815249
The complaint
Ms W complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has reduced her mortgage current account 
reserve limit.
What happened
In 2004, Ms W took out a flexible (interest only) mortgage and linked mortgage current 
account (MCA) with Barclays trading as The Woolwich.
Ms W says when she took out the products, she did so on the understanding that any 
overpayments she made towards the mortgage would create a buffer she could access.
Shes referenced the MCAs rebalancing feature which automatically increases the MCA 
reserve limit as the balance on the flexible mortgage reduces.
In 2006, Ms W made a lump-sum payment of £6,000 towards her mortgage  this reduced 
her total outstanding balance and monthly interest repayments accordingly. She was 
provided with a MCA reserve limit of over £6,000.
In 2015, Barclays wrote to Ms W explaining that it intended to reduce her reserve limit. When 
Ms W called to discuss this, Barclays agreed to reinstate the rebalancing feature on her 
account and restore her previous reserve limit.
In 2021, Barclays wrote to Ms W again explaining it intended to reduce her reserve limit from 
£6,280 to £6,130. When Ms W called in relation to this, Barclays undertook an affordability 
assessment and confirmed it wouldnt return her limit to £6,280.
Ms W complained that this isnt how she understood the product worked, and that she 
wouldnt have made the overpayment in 2006 if shed known that she might lose access to 
the MCA reserve. Ms W says she didnt think the reserve was an overdraft.
Barclays said that Ms W had brought her complaint too late and so it wouldnt look into the 
matter further.
When Ms W brought her complaint to our service in 2022, the investigator thought we could 
only consider part of the complaint. In summary, they said that we couldnt consider the 
events that took place more than six years before this complaint was raised. Having 
considered the 2021 limit reduction, the investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Ms W didnt agree; she said that she wasnt aware that the re-balancing feature could be 
changed and she didnt think Barclays decision to reduce her MCA reserve in 2021 was fair.
The complaint was passed to me for consideration and I issued my provisional decision on 
19 October 2022. Here I explained why I thought our service had jurisdiction to consider the 
whole complaint, but that I didnt intend to uphold the complaint. In summary I thought 
Barclays had acted fairly, in line with the account terms and conditions, and its obligations as 
a responsible lender.
Barclays accepted my provisional decision, but Ms W didnt agree with my findings and 
made the following points:
Barclays didnt undertake an affordability assessment of her income and expenditure 
before reducing her limit and the assessment during her call with it was informal.
She feels affordability was assessed when the mortgage was taken out and theres 
been no reason to change what Barclays is willing to lend her. Shes in a good 
financial position with a positive payment history and maximum credit score. She 
doesnt think Barclays has been transparent in how its made these decisions.
With interest rates being low she would have been better off not overpaying her 
mortgage and keeping the £6,000 in savings.
Barclays will continue to review her account and so future reviews arent 
hypothetical.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, including reviewing Ms Ws recent comments, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
As neither party has raised any concerns or objections in relation to my findings on our 
jurisdiction to consider this complaint, Ive treated this as accepted and so wont be 
addressing that point again here.
The terms and conditions of Ms Ws MCA both at inception and in 2021 explain it has an 
overdraft facility called a reserve and the circumstances in which Barclays can vary or 
reduce the reserve limit.
The rebalancing feature of the MCA links any capital repayments (or overpayments) to the 
mortgage with the MCA reserve limit. This means Ms Ws reserve limit automatically 
increased when she made a lump sum payment in 2006.
But Barclays is also required to lend responsibly, so it will review the unused portion of 
Ms Ws reserve limit  which is effectively a repayable overdraft  and check whether it 
would still be affordable for Ms W if she utilised it.
Ms W says Barclays didnt undertake a full affordability assessment ahead of its decision to 
reduce her limit. An unused reserve limit isnt borrowing Ms W has already taken  its the 
potential to access future borrowing on demand. So, Barclays wasnt required to undertake a 
full affordability assessment in the way Ms W is describing when reducing her limit. Barclays 
did, however, ask Ms W for some key information when she called in 2021 to determine if it 
could return her limit to £6,280.
I understand Ms W feels the affordability assessment when she took out the mortgage was 
sufficient to determine what it would lend to her, but Barclays has a policy to review the 
limits. It isnt our role as a service to tell Barclays to operate this account, but we can check if 
its making these changes in a fair way. In the circumstances Im satisfied Barclays has 
acted fairly in applying these terms to her account and in reducing the reserve limit.
Ive thought about Ms Ws point that she wouldnt have made the overpayment in 2006 if shed understood how the products worked. Ms W has added that interest rates had dropped 
since 2006 and her repayments were around £26 per month in 2021. She thinks she would 
have been financially better off keeping the £6,000 in a savings account.
Unfortunately, very little information is available in terms of what Ms W was told about this in 
2006. I havent seen any evidence to show Barclays gave Ms W incorrect information about 
how the account operates, and Barclays has acted in line with the account terms. So I dont 
think its likely Ms W made the £6,000 payment as a result of an error by Barclays.
I noted in my provisional decision that Ms W has benefited from making this overpayment  
in that the interest on her balance and her monthly repayments are lower as a result, and 
that has been the case since 2006. Ms W has had access to, and continues to have access 
to, an overdraft on her MCA which shes used well within the limit. In regards to Ms Ws 
point, I havent seen any evidence to show she would have been financially better off 
keeping the £6,000 in a savings account and I dont think this point needs to be considered 
further as I havent concluded that Barclays has made a mistake here.
I appreciate Ms W is concerned that Barclays may further reduce her reserve limit in the 
future. Barclays may well undertake further reviews of the reserve limit, which its entitled to 
do under the account terms and conditions. Whether it does so fairly on each occasion is 
something that can only be considered at the time.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman