DRN-3681953
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited didnt credit her account 
with three monthly payments in line with the terms of a promotional campaign when she 
acquired a car by way of a Hire Purchase Agreement (HPA).
What happened
Mrs J acquired a car by way of a HPA in August 2020. She says she was persuaded to 
acquire the particular model because of a promotional offer referred to as 3 months on 
us. She says the promotion stated:
We will pay your first three monthly payments on top of existing offers when you 
finance a new (car).
Mrs J says that the statement of her account doesnt show any credits from VWFS during 
the first three months of her agreement. She says that although shes not been required 
to make any payments during the first three months, she wouldve expected the 
outstanding balance to have come down  but it hasnt. She complained to VWFS.
VWFS investigated her complaint. It said the promotional offer worked on the basis of 
discounting the standard offer interest rates. This meant Mrs J would pay the same 
monthly payments as she would have done on its standard offer but the first three monthly 
payments would be £0. Mrs J wasnt satisfied with this response. She complained to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into her complaint. She said that under s56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) VWFS was responsible for anything said by the dealer during 
negotiations which took place prior to the agreement being entered into. She said it wasnt 
possible to be certain what was said during those negotiations. She thought the promotion 
couldve been explained more clearly to Mrs J. But, on balance she thought VWFS had 
done what it said it would do in the agreement. She referred to the product information 
which stated that the contribution from VWFS would be made by subsidising the interest 
rate. She thought that had happened here.
Mrs J disagreed. She said shed got no contribution at all for her monthly payments. She 
hadnt received any documentation to say that the interest rate would be subsidised. She 
said shed paid the total amount payable over 34 months, along with interest for 37 
months.
Our investigator considered what Mrs J had said but she didnt change her view. She said 
that it was clear on the face of the agreement that the first three monthly payments were 
£0.
Because Mrs J didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its fair and reasonable to expect VWFS to be able to demonstrate to Mrs J 
that she has received the benefits it promised her. Having considered everything 
here, I currently havent been provided with enough evidence to satisfy me, on 
balance, that she has received the promised benefits. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the advertisement and the product guide for the promotion. The 
advertisement stated:
Well pay your first three monthly payments on top of existing offers
Until 30 September well cover your first three monthly payments with up to 
5.5% APR representative and provide deposit contributions between £700 
and £16,000.
Better still, thats in addition to existing offers available
[referring to the particular model which Mrs J purchased]
- The first three months of payments are on us
- 4.9% APR representative*
- £3500 deposit contribution
Ive noted that the APR stated in the HPA was 4.9%. VWFS has also provided 
details of the discounts it applied to Mrs Js agreement. These were:
Dealer contribution                            £1370.00
Deposit Contribution                          £2130.00
This confirms that Mrs J was given the benefit of the APR, and a total deposit 
contribution of £3,500 as set out in the advertisement.
Mrs Js complaint is about the statement that the first three months payments are 
on us. So, Ive looked at what the product information guide said about the first 
three months payments. It stated:
Its really quite simple. Once a customer has chosen their vehicle, the 
vehicle cost (plus interest) is paid in three parts.
The three parts are described as:
-A deposit contribution paid by Audi UK
-The customer pays nothing for the first three months of the repayment 
period. Audi UK contribute towards the cost of the first three monthly 
payments and in most cases, this covers the total cost. The customer 
pays the balance over 32- 45 months starting four months after the date 
of the agreement
-    An optional final payment.
The product guide then provides more detail about how the first three payments will 
be paid:
How much will Audi UK contribute towards the first 3 monthly payments?The contribution is made by Audi subsidising the interest rate so that the 
customer receives the appropriate level of contribution.
The HPA did provide more information about the rate of interest and the 
first three payments. It said
The Rate of Interest (calculated in the same way as the APR, but excluding 
fees) is 4.86% pa. The rate is fixed for the duration of this Agreement. The 
interest payable is calculated at the outset of the Agreement, and is included 
in the monthly repayments stated below. The APR is 4.9%...
The Total Amount Payable (comprising the Advance Payment, Amount 
of Credit, Acceptance Fee, Interest and Option to Purchase Fee) is 
£36,578.65.
Payment
You must make the Advance Payment to us when you sign the Agreement. 
You must then make: one repayment of £0.00 (which comprises an 
Acceptance fee of £0.00) on a date set by us  followed by 33 monthly 
repayment of £390.15, on the same date of each successive month, save 
that there will be a Payment Holiday in month(s) 1,2 and 3, followed by a 
final payment of £16,563.70 payable 36 months after the date set for the first 
repayment.
So, the HPA made clear that Mrs J wasnt required to make any payments to the 
account during the first three months. It didnt provide any reference, at all, to an 
interest subsidy or an interest contribution. The interest rate in the HPA was not 
discounted  it was the standard interest rate as stated in the promotion. And, 
despite what VWFS said in its final response letter, theres nothing in the HPA to 
support its assertion that a discount was applied to its standard offer interest rate 
or that the interest rate was subsidised.
When Mrs J queried why there hadnt been any credits to her account during the 
first three months, she contacted the dealer. She says she was expecting that 
under the terms of the promotion these first three payments wouldve been paid 
into her account. The dealer sent her an email dated 21 October 2021 which said:
Its a bit tricky to explain in text. But, the three payments that Audi Finance 
are paying were applied to your purchase as an additional discount as part 
of your finance agreement. You wont be able to see the payments from 
Audi Finance as they would be paying money to themselves. The money 
has already been paid but as a total amount in the form of a discount.
Id just comment that even though a promotion might be tricky to explain, it didnt 
absolve the dealer from providing an explanation that was clear, fair and not 
misleading to its customer. Ive also not been provided with evidence to support 
the statement made by the dealer about an additional discount.
Ive noted that in its final response letter, VWFS told Mrs J it would provide her with 
a comparison which was based on the financial data which applied to her own 
agreement. It subsequently said it was not able to do this because the interest rate 
would have differed per person per application based on their financial 
circumstances.
I asked VWFS to provide a detailed calculation and explanation setting out how the 
total amount of interest referred to in Mrs Js HPA had been arrived at. This wouldve enabled me to see whether an interest subsidy had been made and 
whether it equated to three monthly payments. VWFS has not provided that 
information. Instead it has provided an example of how it says the interest subsidy 
worked.
Having looked at the example provided, Im unable to apply it to Mrs Js specific 
arrangements. The example provided is for a different amount, a different deposit, a 
different term and a different representative APR. So, Ive been unable to work out 
whether any interest subsidy was applied to Mrs Js agreement.
Having considered everything here, Im currently satisfied on balance that VWFS 
stated that the first three months were on us. I think that was the stated intention 
of the promotion and that was what it agreed to do. So, I dont think there was a 
misrepresentation. But, Im not currently persuaded, on balance, Mrs J has 
received three months payments on us.
What needs to be done to put things right
Because Im not currently persuaded Mrs J received the promised benefit of the first 
three monthly payments, Ive provisionally decided its fair and reasonable to require 
VWFS to now put Mrs J into the position she wouldve been in if it had done what it 
said it would do  that is, contribute to the cost of the first three monthly payments. 
This will require it to re-work the account from its inception based on the original 
agreed amount of credit, term and interest rate  as set out in the HPA. It should 
then credit her account with the first three monthly payments, as set out in the 
promotion.
Mrs J has also been inconvenienced as a result of whats happened here. Shes 
asked for explanations - but these havent been provided. And, shes had to 
progress her complaint to our service. In these circumstances, Ive provisionally 
decided its fair and reasonable to require VWFS to pay her £150 by way of 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this 
complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited. I intend to require it 
to take the following actions:
Re-work Mrs Js account from inception based on the original agreed 
amount of credit, term and interest rate  as set out in the HPA.
Credit the first three monthly payments to the account.
Provide an updated statement of account to Mrs J.
Pay Mrs J £150 by way of compensation for the inconvenience shes been 
caused as a result of what happened here.
Mrs J responded to my provisional decision. She said she accepted the decision.
VWFS also responded to my provisional decision. It asked for further clarity about how I 
thought this complaint should be resolved. It explained it wouldnt be able to re-work the 
payments due on the account as its systems wouldnt be able to perform that calculation. 
The reason for this was because the particular sales campaign was no longer valid.
In these circumstances it instead offered to:Credit to the account three monthly payments (3 x £390.15) together with 8% 
simple interest* on this amount from 24 January 2021 to the date of payment.
Reduce the monthly payments for the remaining term of Mrs Js agreement 
(approximately 12 months) to £284.01 per month.
Alternatively, VWFS said it could make a payment direct to Mrs Js bank account of 
£1,170.45 together with 8% simple interest* on this amount from 24 January 2021 to the 
date of payment. There would then be no change to the payments she was making to her 
agreement. The reason for that was because the compensation payment would not have 
been applied in part payment of the total amount still outstanding under the agreement.
I asked Mrs J for her comments about what had been proposed. I explained that I thought it 
was important that the actions I required VWFS to take to resolve the complaint should be 
capable of being implemented in a way which was straightforward and which provided clarity 
about what she could expect to happen. And, having considered what VWFS had said, I 
thought their proposals were fair and reasonable. I explained that I still also intended to 
award £150 compensation for the inconvenience shed experienced.
Mrs J said she was willing to proceed on the basis that the compensation payment would be 
made directly to her bank account with no change to the payments shes required to make 
under her HPA.
So, I now need to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses to my provisional decision. Neither of the parties has said 
anything in response to my provisional decision to indicate they disagree with my view that 
this complaint should be upheld. So, I havent changed my view that this complaint should 
be upheld.
There has been discussion about how the complaint should be resolved. Ive considered the 
comments made by both VWFS and by Mrs J about the actions I thought VWFS needed to 
take to resolve this complaint. Having done so, Ive changed my view about the actions 
VWFS should be required to take here to put things right.
As Ive set out above, it is important that VWFS should be able to implement the actions I 
require it to take to resolve the complaint in a way which is straightforward and which 
achieves a fair outcome. And, its also important that Mrs J should have clarity about what 
she can expect. Both parties have given their views on how that can best be achieved.
Having considered the proposal made by VWFS and the comments about that proposal from 
Mrs J, Ive now decided its fair and reasonable that this complaint should be resolved in the 
following way. 
VWFS should pay £1,170.45, together with 8% simple interest* on this amount from 24 
January 2021 until the date of payment, directly into Mrs Js bank account. 
For avoidance of doubt, there will be no change to the residual payments Mrs J is required to 
make under the terms of the HPA with VWFS. In addition VWFS should pay Mrs J £150 for the inconvenience she experienced as a result 
of what happened here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited. I now require it to take the following actions:
Pay £1,170.45, together with 8% simple interest* on this amount from 24 January 
2021 until the date of payment, directly into Mrs Js bank account; and
Pay Mrs J £150 by way of compensation for the inconvenience shes been caused 
as a result of what happened here.
Mrs J should continue to make the payments she is required to make under the terms of her 
Hire Purchase Agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited.
* If Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mrs J it should tell her how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mrs J a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman