DRN-1852040
complaint
Mr A complains about the decision made by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to void his 
income protection policy because of misrepresentation. 
background
On 28 February 2019, Mr A took out the policy through his broker. The aim of the policy was 
to provide a monthly benefit of £1,000 in the event Mr A couldnt work because of illness or 
injury. 
Later that year, Mr A stopped work because of illness. He submitted a claim to Aviva. During 
Avivas investigation of the claim, it found that Mr A hadnt told it material information about 
his health when taking out the policy. Aviva said if it had known this information, it wouldnt 
have offered Mr A the policy. It therefore voided the policy from the start and returned the 
premiums hed paid. As no cover was in force, that meant the claim wasnt payable. 
Unhappy with Avivas decision, Mr A brought a complaint to this service. He said his broker 
hadnt asked him the relevant medical questions when hed applied for the policy. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Aviva had acted 
reasonably in voiding the policy. He set up a complaint against the broker, which he 
considered separately.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators findings, so the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Mr A has raised concerns about his broker, weve considered this under a separate 
complaint. This decision will only focus on Avivas decision to void the policy. 
As Aviva voided the policy due to misrepresentation, the relevant law that applies is the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). Ive therefore 
considered the matter in accordance with the principles set out in CIDRA.
In order to first decide whether there was misrepresentation, I need to be satisfied that clear 
questions were asked, and that Mr As answers were wrong.
After Mr A applied for the policy, Aviva sent Mr A a document called Personal details 
confirmation. This confirmed the questions that had been asked and the answers given. The 
document asked Mr A to check the information and let Aviva know if anything wasnt correct. 
It made it clear that it was important the information shown was correct, and if anything was 
wrong, Aviva could amend or cancel the policy, or not pay a claim.  
Aviva says Mr A answered the below questions incorrectly.Have you ever been advised by a health care professional or a counsellor to reduce your 
alcohol use, see a specialist or attend a support group because of your alcohol use?
and
Apart from any conditions youve already told us about in this application, within the last two 
years have you:
Had any medication or treatment that lasted more than four weeks?
Been referred to, treated at or had any investigations at a hospital or clinic?
Mr A answered no to the above three questions. 
Im satisfied that all the questions were clear. Ill therefore consider each question in turn in 
order to decide whether Mr As answers were wrong.
Have you ever been advised by a health care professional or a counsellor to reduce your 
alcohol use, see a specialist or attend a support group because of your alcohol use?
Mr A was under the care of an alcohol recovery service in the two years before taking out 
the policy, and I see he completed a course of therapy there for alcohol abstinence during 
that time. It might be reasonable to therefore conclude hed likely been advised by a health 
care professional or counsellor to reduce his alcohol use, though we dont know this for 
certain. We also dont know if he was advised to attend this alcohol recovery service by a 
healthcare professional or counsellor. I note Mr A says he made this decision himself.
Consequently, I dont think Aviva has done enough here to show that Mr A answered this 
question incorrectly.
Apart from any conditions youve already told us about in this application, within the last two 
years have you:
Had any medication or treatment that lasted more than four weeks?
Mr As GP records show that in the two years before taking out the policy, he was prescribed 
medication used to support the treatment of alcoholism, and that he was taking this for more 
than four weeks. In fact, Mr A was still taking this medication when he applied for the policy.
I think Mr A should have therefore answered yes to this question, and disclosed his 
medication. 
Apart from any conditions youve already told us about in this application, within the last two 
years have you:

Been referred to, treated at or had any investigations at a hospital or clinic?
As Ive said, Mr A attended therapy for alcohol abstinence, and the therapy completed in 
November 2017. However, we dont know that this took place at a hospital or clinic. I 
therefore dont think Aviva has shown Mr A answered this question incorrectly. 
ConclusionsI think Mr A only failed to take reasonable care when answering one of the questions  and 
that was the one about medication. Ive therefore considered what Aviva would have done, if 
Mr A had answered this question correctly. 
Aviva has confirmed that it wouldnt have offered cover to someone previously dependent on 
alcohol unless theyd been alcohol free and off medication for a minimum of four years.
Given that the medication Mr A was taking was specifically to treat alcoholism, Aviva would 
have known from this that Mr A had previously been dependent on alcohol. I think it would 
have therefore asked him how long ago hed stopped drinking. As this had been less than 
four years at the time the policy was applied for, and he was still taking the medication, Im 
satisfied that Aviva wouldnt have offered Mr A cover. 
That means Aviva was entitled to void the policy from the start, and so the claim cant be 
payable as there was no cover in force. 
Aviva has treated Mr As misrepresentation as careless, and has refunded the premiums to 
him. Im satisfied this was reasonable. 
Aviva also accepted there were delays in its investigation of the claim, as it didnt proactively 
chase Mr As GP for information when this wasnt forthcoming. It paid Mr A £150 
compensation for this, which I find was appropriate. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman