DRN-2839817
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc blocked and then closed his account. He also says 
the bank took too long to release his account balance. He says this caused him serious 
financial repercussions and he wants the bank to pay him compensation.
What happened
Mr K had an account with Santander. In January 2020, a number of faster payments were 
paid into Mr Ks account. Following this, Santander decided to carry out a review of Mr Ks 
account and asked him to provide information regarding the payments. Whilst it completed 
its review the bank blocked Mr Ks access to his account. At the time the balance of the 
account was just over £17,000. 
Following its review, Santander closed Mr Ks account immediately and released his closing 
balance to him on 12 February 2020. 
Mr K complained to the bank. He said the bank had treated him unfairly in taking the actions 
it did and that the money paid into his account was from his family and friends. He said he 
hadnt been able to pay contractors, had lost out on a property purchase overseas and had 
struggled financially to pay his rent because his account had been blocked. Santander said it 
hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and closed his account. And had done so in line 
with the terms of the account and its legal obligations. Unhappy with this response, Mr K 
brought his complaint to our service where one of our investigators looked into what had 
happened. 
The investigator said Santander hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and closed 
Mr Ks account. And said it had done so to comply with its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Mr K disagreed. He said he missed out on his university course, and a property purchase. 
He wants Santander to pay him £10,000 compensation for the inconvenience and financial 
losses he says was caused as a result of the bank blocking and closing his account. And he 
wants the bank to provide him with a proper explanation why it no longer wanted him as 
customer. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Santander has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations 
are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its 
obligations Santander may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. 
If Santander didnt comply with its obligations it could risk serious sanction. 
Having looked at all the evidence, Im satisfied Santander acted in accordance with its 
various legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked and reviewed Mr Ks account. And it 
was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions. So, whilst I accept this caused 
Mr K inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated him unfairly when it blocked his account
Mr K wants Santander to explain why it blocked his account. But Santander doesnt disclose 
to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. So, I cant say its done anything 
wrong by not giving Mr K this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it 
do so. 
The timing of Santanders actions was unfortunate. Mr K says he was in the process of 
purchasing a property overseas and missed out on his university course because he couldnt 
access the money in his account. So, I can understand why he found this experience with 
Santander stressful and upsetting and why he wants Santander to pay him compensation. 
But as Ive already explained financial businesses have a legal obligation to comply with 
various laws and regulations. Ive seen the evidence provided by Santander and I can see 
that in blocking the account Santander were following an internal process which they carried 
out in order to comply with their obligations. This was a legitimate exercise. So, it wouldnt be 
appropriate to make an award of compensation for that, since I dont believe Santander 
acted inappropriately and treated Mr K unfairly in taking the actions it did.
Mr Ks also unhappy about how long the bank took to complete its review and release his 
funds. I do accept that it took the bank a relatively lengthy period of time to review Mr Ks 
account  around six weeks. But I dont consider that it would be right for me to conclude it 
shouldnt have taken in excess of any particular or specific timeframe. Because Santander is 
entitled  as a matter of principle  to do what it did in order to comply with its legal and 
regulatory obligations. Having looked at the information provided by Santander, Im satisfied 
that it hasnt been responsible for any undue delays and progressed its review as quickly as 
possible. So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to award Mr K compensation.
I also note that Santander spoke to Mr K on more than one occasion about what was 
happening and explained to him that it was still completing its review and completing its due 
diligence.  I can see that the bank wrote to Mr K on at least three occasions and spoke to 
him on at least three occasions to ask him for information about the specific payments into 
his account. So, I think Santander kept Mr K informed about what it was doing. And what 
information it needed from him. Mr K provided paperwork, and I dont think it unreasonable 
that the bank needed time to examine what hed provided and make any necessary 
enquiries. Overall, I think Santander took appropriate measures to find a way forward for 
Mr K to be able to access the money remaining in his bank account. And completed its 
review in a timely manner.
I then turn to the banks decision to close Mr Ks account. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed.
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly in closing Mr Ks account. Ive looked at the 
terms and conditions of his accounts and Im satisfied they did. The terms and conditions 
outline that the bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain 
circumstances they can close an account immediately. In this case Santander closed Mr Ks 
account without notice. For Santander to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to 
apply their terms for immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the 
evidence, Im satisfied that the bank has applied the terms fairly. And it was entitled to close 
the account as its already done. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman