DRN-3727599
The complaint
Mr R says Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, has treated him unfairly in relation 
to a transaction on his credit card which paid for flights.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr R used his Barclays credit card to make payment to a website for 
flights supplied by airlines which are separate entities to the website. After purchasing these 
tickets Mr R discovered that if he took these connecting flights hed not be allowed into the 
destination country because it was only accepting travellers whod travelled direct. So he 
purchased other flights that were direct so he could gain entry to the destination country. He 
complained to the Website about it selling him tickets he couldnt use, but it rejected his 
complaint. So he complained to Barclays.
Barclays considered what happened. It raised a chargeback with the website and considered 
the websites response to that before deciding that such a chargeback didnt have a 
reasonable prospect of success. It also considered Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 but concluded that the website had fulfilled its part of the contract, so Barclays didnt 
have a liability there either. Mr R wasnt happy with Barclays position, so he brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our Investigator felt Barclays didnt have to do anymore. And Mr R remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R used his Barclays credit card to pay for these connecting flights (this was flights only-
not a package). This meant that if certain criteria are met, Barclays can have certain 
responsibilities to Mr R which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary, in certain circumstances, Section 75 
has the effect of allowing Mr R to hold Barclays liable for breaches of contract, or 
misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence Barclays can be 
held responsible for a like claim as that which Mr R would have against the website.
Mr Rs Barclays credit card is also part of a card scheme. And this scheme has rules which 
includes giving Barclays a route for card transactions to be disputed with Merchants such as 
the website, namely through the Chargeback process. This isnt a right for consumers, and it 
is possible that chargeback could be ultimately unsuccessful without Barclays having done 
anything wrong.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Barclays and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr R fairly. This decision isnt about the website 
or the Airline, which arent within this Services remit for complaints about Chargeback and 
S75. I hope this crucial distinction is clear.
could Barclays challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
Mr R has been clear that he used the website to purchase the flights and doesnt dispute the 
amount charged, when it was charged, or whether it was applied correctly to his account. So 
I dont think Barclays couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr R didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given what Ive just set out.
Barclays is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is no longer a reasonable prospect of success.
Barclays considered chargeback here and raised a chargeback with the website. So it 
clearly supported Mr R in his dispute with the website. The website responded by explaining 
it had provided the service agreed between the parties. Barclays again challenged this, and 
the website responded further. In essence the website made clear that within the agreed 
terms and conditions it didnt take any responsibility for entry requirements to countries and 
the passenger was always responsible for this. It also pointed to its warnings about this 
issue on its website pages. So Barclays says it didnt take the chargeback any further 
because it then felt that such a chargeback would not have a reasonable prospect of 
success.
Ive looked at the websites terms and conditions and I can see it precisely describes the 
service it provides is essentially made up of four services, displaying flight information, 
brokering the purchase of flights, delivering the tickets purchased and assisting with online 
check-in. It doesnt provide advice to consumers or take any responsibility for entrance 
requirements into countries or the terms or conditions of the airline who provide the flights. 
Ive considered this carefully and think it likely that had Barclays took the chargeback as far 
as it could it was unlikely to be successful. I say this because Chargeback is a 
straightforward process between card providers and merchants which enables disputes to 
raised and considered and challenged. As the website provided the service it said it would 
then ultimately I think it unlikely that the chargeback would have been successful had 
Barclays taken it to the conclusion of the process. So I dont think Mr R lost out because the 
chargeback wasnt taken any further than it was by Barclays.
I appreciate Mr R feels that this commercial service provided by the website is unfair. 
However its terms and conditions are available prior to booking and do sets out the service it 
provides.
Section 75
There are some requirements set out in the CCA which have to be met before deciding 
whether there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the website. I see that our 
Investigator thought the required relationship (Debtor, Creditor, Supplier) wasnt in place for 
Barclays to be held liable. Barclays has made similar observations but importantly has also 
said that the website completed its side of the contract and thus it didnt uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. I dont think I have to make a decision on this required relationship point because 
I dont think it makes a difference to the overall conclusion. Ill explain why.
For Barclays to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that 
the Website either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mr R 
which was untrue and that led to loss.Mr R says he couldnt use the flights due to the restrictions that were in place at the 
destination country. But neither of the website, the airlines or Barclays were responsible for 
these restrictions. The website provided the services that Mr R agreed to and paid for, 
namely the display of flight information and arranging the flights purchase. Whether or not Mr 
R could or couldnt fly, the restrictions were not the Airlines responsibility and thus neither 
was it Barclays. I can also see on the booking process that there was a warning regarding 
such requirements and making clear the website was not responsible for ensuring 
passengers met the requirements or could travel.
Im not persuaded that Barclays has treated Mr R unfairly here. I appreciate Mr R will feel 
that the website provides a service that is unfair. However just because the restrictions were 
in place doesnt make it fair for Barclays to carry this cost, particularly considering it hadnt 
done anything wrong. Just because Mr R has lost out, it doesnt mean it is fair for Barclays to 
cover the cost of these flights. It has to have done something wrong to make it fair that it 
bears this cost. And Im satisfied it hasnt done so. So this complaint doesnt succeed.
For completeness I shall now turn to some of Mr Rs arguments. He says he doesnt think its 
fair that the websites terms and conditions are applicable here. Barclays are only potentially 
responsible here under its obligations to pursue chargebacks where there is a reasonable 
prospect of success and where there is a breach of contract or a misrepresentation here. It 
can only be liable here if it has done something wrong in these limited circumstances. Mr R 
agreed to the terms of the website and as Barclays have considered the matter fairly I see 
no persuasive reason for it to refund these flight costs.
Mr R says he had the required visa to enter the connecting country where he was due to 
board another flight to the destination country. This maybe so. But under the terms he 
agreed he was responsible for ensuring he met the destination country requirements, not the 
website. And in any event Mr R isnt complaining that he got to the connecting airport and 
was denied boarding. Hes saying he had to buy different type of flights to get to the 
destination country. So I dont think this argument shows Barclays approach was wrong.
Mr R says All my documentation was available to (the Website) at the point of booking the 
flight, as was the fact that no transit passengers were allowed through (connecting country) 
to (destination country). This may be the case. But the website didnt provide the service 
which having such information makes a difference. As its terms make, it only displays flight 
information and books the flights purchasers wish to purchase. So I see no persuasive 
reason for Barclays to refund these flights.
Mr R says (the airline) did not let me board at the airport, as (the airline) / (the connecting 
country) did not have a travel corridor agreement in place with (the destination country), and 
(the airline) could not take transit passengers. However the website displayed flight 
information on the basis of the purchaser being responsible for ensuring they could use the 
flights and use them as they wanted to. So Im not persuaded that this shows that Barclays 
did anything wrong here.
Mr R makes a number of comments regarding the fairness of the sales processes and 
practices of the website. And I can fully appreciate why he finds this situation intolerable. 
However this dispute isnt about the website. Mr Rs complaint to this service is about 
Barclays and how it did or did not fulfil its obligations. And having considered everything in 
the round here Im satisfied Mr R has not lost out because of what Barclays did. Accordingly 
his complaint does not succeed.
I appreciate that this isnt a decision which Mr R wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Rs avenues for recouping the cost of the flights will be significantly limited. But this does not mean that Barclays has done anything wrong in dealing with the 
issues arising from this transaction. Or that it should refund him.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr R has said, Im not persuaded 
Barclays has treated Mr R unfairly. So unfortunately for Mr R his complaint does not 
succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman