DRN-2075342
The complaint
Mr B complained that hed been penalised for closing his fixed term ISA early, and moving
his money elsewhere, when his previous provider merged with Clydesdale Bank Plc trading
as Virgin Money.
What happened
Mr B said he opened a three-year fixed term ISA with Virgin. But then Virgin merged with
Clydesdale, operating under the Virgin banner. Mr B was no longer happy for his money to
be managed by the new provider. He said its customer satisfaction score was much lower.
He asked Virgin to transfer his money to a different provider. It did, but it charged him 120
days interest for ending his fixed term ISA early.
Mr B pointed to a provision in his terms and conditions that said if there was a change in
terms and conditions to his disadvantage, he was entitled to close the account without a
penalty. And he thought it was to his disadvantage that a much less well-regarded provider
was taking over the account.
Virgin said that the interest rate was staying the same. It didnt think Mr B had been
disadvantaged by the change, and didnt think that it had made a mistake by applying an
interest penalty for account closure. It wouldnt pay this money back.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Virgin had applied a
term of the account when charging the interest penalty for early closure. And Mr B had been
told about this on the phone when he rang to discuss moving his money. Our investigator
said the terms had remained the same, so he didnt think Mr B had been disadvantaged.
Mr B said hed asked Virgin repeatedly for the terms as they were when he opened his
account, and hadnt been sent them. He thought this poor customer service was evidence of
exactly what he feared would happen. This was why hed moved his money. And he said
without a copy of the terms as they were when he opened his account, he couldnt tell
whether they had changed to his disadvantage. Virgin sent those terms, and Mr B said these
old terms looked nothing like the new ones, so he would need to take some legal advice. He
did that, and then wrote again.
Mr B said it was wrong for Virgin to just insist the new terms were the same. He gave
examples of differences, which he said were to his disadvantage. So he said that Virgin
shouldve allowed him to close his account in the two-month period before the terms were
imposed, without penalty. But instead, it hadnt even given him the required two months of
written notice before it changed the terms.
Our investigator thought that these points were a new complaint, and said Mr B would need
to take these issues up with Virgin. He also didnt think the terms had changed.
Mr B said this was all part of his original complaint. He wanted his complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr Bs initial argument was that it was to his detriment that the provider of his ISA 
was changing, without his express agreement, to a provider he considered would be 
less likely to provide good customer service. Virgin, unsurprisingly, argued against 
this. But in doing so, it also said that there were no other changes to Mr Bs terms 
and conditions.
I think the issue of whether Mr B is entitled to change provider without penalty, 
because of a disadvantageous change to his terms and conditions, has always been 
central to this complaint. I dont think Mr B is raising a new issue now.
Mr B has been asking to see the original terms he agreed to when he took out his 
latest fixed term ISA with Virgin, for some time. Rather late in this investigation, it has 
transpired that what Virgin has said about the new terms isnt entirely accurate. 
There are changes. They are very modest, but Mr B argues they are to his 
disadvantage.
I wouldnt necessarily have agreed with Mr B that the modest changes to terms were 
to his disadvantage. But I also dont think I have to reach a view on that to provide a 
fair and reasonable outcome to this case. Thats because I think that other things in 
this case have gone wrong.
I dont think its likely that Virgins representatives have knowingly misrepresented the 
new terms to Mr B. But they did say there were no changes, which isnt strictly 
accurate. They have taken a very long time to send Mr B the old terms to compare. 
And Mr B has also told us that he was asked to reply to Virgins email about changed 
terms in less than the two-month period the terms themselves say he should be 
allowed. So I think that, in all the circumstances of this case as we now know them to 
be, Mr B hasnt been treated entirely fairly and reasonably by Virgin.
Mr B says all he wants in this case is a refund of the interest penalty that was applied 
on transfer, together with a small amount towards the missing interest on this money. 
Ive said I dont think Mr B has been treated entirely fairly and reasonably, and I also 
think that Mr B has been put to some trouble by this complaint. So I think that Virgin 
should refund the interest penalty that was applied when Mr B closed his account, 
and pay £50 in compensation. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr B replied to accept my decision. Virgin wrote to make some further points. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin said it had further comments it wanted me to take into consideration before issuing
my final decision.Virgin said when Mr B opened his account, the terms for it were contained within his Key 
Product Information (KPI). It was an online account, and the KPI was online for him to view 
at any time. Virgin said it also provides generic terms which apply to all its savings accounts.
Virgin said it does periodically have to make minor changes to its generic terms. It had done 
so since Mr B opened his account. But it wont change any of the terms within the KPI during 
the fixed rate period. Virgin summarised what it said the main terms of Mr Bs account were, 
and said these were set out in the KPI.
Virgin said its fixed rate account carries a higher rate of interest than an instant access 
account, but there is a penalty if funds are withdrawn early.
Virgin said it had notified Mr B about changes to its generic terms by email in 2018, early 
2019 and again later in 2019 with its email about the merger with Clydesdale. Virgin couldnt 
provide the individual emails sent to Mr B, but it was confident theyd been received. 
Virgin said that, as Mr B withdrew his funds in September 2019, the 2-month window had 
expired for objecting to the March 2019 changes. And it disagreed that any minor changes to 
the generic terms from 2018 to 2019 have had a detrimental effect on Mr B.
Virgin said Mr B says he should be allowed to withdraw his funds penalty free within the two 
months of the changes to the generic terms. Virgin repeated its claim that this point did not 
form part of the original complaint. It said Mr B had just complained that he had been 
charged a penalty for removing his funds and claimed that he hadnt been informed of this. 
Virgin said it had listened to the calls, and he had been informed of this. Mr B asked to see 
his terms, and Virgin said it would enclose a copy with his complaint response letter. Virgin 
said the only mistake it had made was not enclosing this, and it had apologised for this. 
Virgin sent Mr B copy of his KPI on 14 October 2019. Virgin thought those were the specific 
terms it should send to a customer who is querying their account. On 29 October 2019 Mr B 
was sent a copy of his KPI and the generic terms.
Virgin ended by saying that Mr B was fully aware before transferring his ISA that he would 
incur a penalty. And its system wouldve warned him again before the transfer. 
Virgin thought that Mr B only transferred his money because he thought hed see a 
difference after the merger. Virgin said that was disappointing, but not a reason for it to 
refund the interest charged on closure of the account. Virgin still thought the interest was 
charged reasonably and appropriately on closure of the account.
Ill now deal with the points Virgin raised.
Mr B has been asking for the old terms of his account, so he could compare these to the 
new terms that applied after the merger, for some time. He started asking for these before 
Virgin sent its complaint response letter to him. And I said in my provisional decision that I 
think the issue of whether Mr B is entitled to change provider without penalty, because of a 
disadvantageous change to his terms and conditions, has always been central to this 
complaint. So, although Virgin continues to assert that this is a new complaint point, I dont 
agree. 
Virgin says that when someone asks for the terms of their account, they should be sent the 
KPI. Mr Bs wasnt an ordinary request. And I dont agree that sending a KPI was likely to 
meet his request.Virgin argues that the terms of Mr Bs account hadnt changed, because the KPI hadnt 
changed. But the statements Virgin made to Mr B at the time werent qualified in this way, 
and I think its too late now for Virgin to rely on this distinction to reframe the representations 
it made to Mr B at the time. 
When Mr B said that he wanted the old terms, he asked for the terms that applied when he 
opened his account. I understand thats what Virgin eventually sent him. But Virgin now tells 
us that the document it sent wasnt the latest set of terms and conditions, which applied 
before Mr Bs account was transferred. 
I think it was clear why Mr B wanted these old terms. He wanted to compare them with the 
new ones. So if the ones he was asking for werent the terms in force before his account was 
transferred, I think Virgin shouldve told him this, and sent the right ones. Its very 
disappointing only to discover, at this late stage, that the legal advice Mr B obtained on the 
old and new terms is brought into question, because Virgin hadnt sent the document he 
needed. 
Having considered the terms that Virgin has now sent, which I hope actually are the terms in 
force immediately before the transfer, I can see that there are also changes here. For 
instance, the cap on electronic transfers that Mr B drew to our attention doesnt seem to 
have applied before the merger. 
Virgin disagreed that any minor changes to the generic terms from 2018 to 2019 have had a 
detrimental effect on Mr B. I accept that these are modest changes. But, as I said in my 
provisional decision, I dont think I have to reach a view on whether the changes were to 
Mr Bs disadvantage, in order to provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this case. I said 
that then, because I thought that other things in this case had gone wrong.
What Virgin has now said, doesnt change my mind about other things in this case having 
gone wrong, and Mr B not having been treated fairly and reasonably. For that reason, I still 
think this complaint should be upheld, and a compensation payment made to Mr B. And I 
continue to think that can fairly be achieved by the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must refund the 
interest penalty that was applied when Mr B closed his three-year fixed term ISA, and pay 
Mr B £50 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman