DRN-3086124
The complaint
Mrs V complains that she tried to open an ISA with Paragon Bank Plc, with a 1% interest 
rate. But she only got a rate of 0.7%. Mrs V said no one told her about this change, and she 
only found out after the 14 day cooling off period, when it was too late to do anything.
What happened
Mrs V said that she applied for a 1% interest rate ISA. The funds from her old ISA couldnt 
be transferred electronically, so she needed to send in a paper form. Mrs V said shed done 
everything possible to transfer the money promptly, and was repeatedly reassured by 
Paragon that there was time to complete the account opening and transfer of funds, so she 
would still get a 1% interest rate. 
Mrs V said that her account then opened. There was no communication from Paragon to tell 
her that the rate she was getting was lower than the one shed applied for, and Mrs V said 
that because Paragon doesnt display the interest rate prominently, it wasnt until her first 
monthly interest payment was made that realised she was only getting 0.7% interest. 
Mrs V said she would lose several hundred pounds over the two year fixed period of the ISA, 
and she thought this was unfair. She wanted Paragon to honour its offer of 1% interest from 
the start of the ISA.
Paragon said it guarantees a rate for 28 days from the date of application. It said Mrs Vs 
application was processed by it within its timescales, but the money was only transferred 
from her old provider a few days outside of the 28 day rate guarantee window. So it opened 
an account for her, and gave her the rate that was available at the time. 
Paragon didnt think it had to call Mrs V to tell her about this change. It said it was clear 
during the application and in the welcome letter that Paragon will only guarantee a rate if 
money is received within this 28 day period. Paragon said it had written to Mrs V to tell her 
the transfer was complete, and she could have checked the rate then. 
Paragon said Mrs V was now outside of the 14-day cooling off period. So if she wanted to 
transfer her funds now, she would lose 180 days of interest.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Paragon had 
caused delays which resulted in this payment falling outside of the 28 day period. She said 
the delay was because the business which previously held Mrs Vs ISA wasnt on the 
electronic ISA transfer. She said Mrs V wasnt entitled to the 1% interest rate as the funds 
were not received on time.
But our investigator said that when Paragon wrote to Mrs V to say that the money had been 
received, there was no mention of the interest rate. Paragon had said to Mrs V that it would 
confirm the interest rate if it didnt receive the money within 28 days, and our investigator 
said it didnt do so. Our investigator said that Mrs V had looked online, but the interest rate 
on her account was not displayed on the summary page.
Our investigator said Paragon shouldve taken steps to confirm this different interest rate. 
And if it had done this, our investigator thought Mrs V would have taken advantage of the 14 
day cooling off period. Because Paragon didnt alert Mrs V to this change, our investigator 
thought that Paragon ought to reinstate the 14 day cooling off period now, to allow Mrs V to 
move her ISA elsewhere without penalty. 
Mrs V didnt agree. She thought Paragon had caused delays, because it received the 
transfer form from her on 8 October and did not request the transfer of funds from her old 
bank until sometime after 14 October. 
Mrs V said she didnt accept that offering her the 14 day cooling off period now would put her 
in the same position as when she originally applied to Paragon, as the current level of 
interest rates for ISAs was better then, than it is today. And she said shed lost around £200 
in interest. But Mrs V said she was willing to compromise, if Paragon would transfer her ISA 
funds to its new two year fixed rate of 1.01% with interest paid monthly.
Paragon didnt agree either. It said it had followed the right process for transferring Mrs Vs 
ISA, and the delay wasnt its fault. Mrs Vs interest rate wasnt in her letter, but it was 
confirmed on Mrs Vs online account. 
Paragon said it had emailed Mrs V on 30 October to prompt her to log in and look at the 
secure message it had sent. So it thought it had notified her of the interest rate it was paying. 
It wouldnt reinstate the 14 day cooling off period. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said the interest rate was visible to Mrs V in an 
attachment, but to see that, she would have to log on to her portal, clicked on messages and 
then opened the attachment to see the summary box, to see the interest rate was 0.7%. But 
Mrs V hadnt been warned about this change, so there was no reason for her to check this. 
Our investigator still thought that Paragon shouldve done more to alert Mrs V to this change. 
Our investigator told Paragon about the compromise Mrs V had offered. 
Paragon still didnt change its mind. It said it had sent Mrs V an email to ask her to log on to 
her account and view the message. And the interest rate was also available to view on the 
account summary screen, not just the message attachment. But Mrs V didnt log in for 
several weeks after the transfer, and Paragon thought that was why she hadnt asked to 
move her account in the cooling off period. 
Paragon said it makes clear to customers upfront that the rate they apply for is guaranteed 
for 28 days only. So it didnt think it had failed to be transparent with Mrs V.
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She repeated that for Mrs V to realise shed got a 
lower rate, she would have had to go looking for that information. Our investigator asked why 
Mrs V would go looking for this information when nothing had alerted her to the fact that she 
was not getting the rate she originally applied for.
So our investigator still thought this complaint should be upheld, and Paragon should give 
Mrs V the 14 day cooling off period, if it didnt want to accept her compromise offer. 
Paragon didnt want to do either of those things, because it still thought it had done nothing 
wrong. And as no agreement was reached, Mrs Vs case came to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion as our investigator.
I dont think that Paragon caused delays in transferring Mrs Vs ISA. I think it acted 
reasonably promptly, and that the transfer took over 28 days from Mrs Vs first application 
because everything for this transfer had to be done by post, instead of electronically. 
Paragon has repeatedly said to us that theres a 28-day window to fund an ISA account, and 
that after this, it wont guarantee it will pay the same interest rate. I do think that Paragon 
could have been rather clearer, in its emails to Mrs V and its terms, about what would 
happen if the account wasnt funded in this 28 day period. Paragons email of 4 October said 
that it would confirm the interest rate if Mrs Vs account wasnt funded within that time, but 
Paragons earlier email, of 26 September, says that if the account isnt funded during this 
period, the account will close, and Mrs V will need to reapply. 
However, taken together, I accept that Paragon had only offered to honour the rate Mrs V 
applied for if her ISA was funded within 28 days. And the rate Paragon paid was available to 
Mrs V once her account had opened (although I agree with our investigator that this was not 
displayed prominently  Ill return to this point). So I dont think Paragon has to pay Mrs V 
1% interest now, backdated to when the account opened.
But I also think Paragon had indicated to Mrs V that it would confirm a new rate, if it didnt 
pay what shed applied for. Ive seen that Mrs V would have had to go looking for this new 
rate, to find out what it was. And I dont think there was any reason for Mrs V to be 
concerned about the rate she would get, before she got her first monthly interest payment.
Like our investigator, I think that its fair to say, in these circumstances, that Paragon should 
have done more to draw this change in interest rates to Mrs Vs attention. And because it 
didnt do so, Mrs V missed her chance to move her ISA elsewhere. So I also think its fair to 
say that Paragon should recreate the 14 day cooling off period now, to allow Mrs V to 
transfer her ISA elsewhere.
Mrs V didnt think that was fair, because she said ISA rates had fallen. But at the time of 
writing, I understand that current rates would allow Mrs V to exceed the 1% fixed rate over 
two years that Paragon had offered, and indeed to exceed Paragons current fixed rate ISA 
offer over two years. I think that means this does provide a fair outcome in this case. So my 
decision will allow Mrs V to choose a new provider, and to transfer without penalty as long as 
she begins this process within 14 days of accepting this final decision.My final decision
My final decision is that Paragon Bank Plc must allow Mrs V to transfer her fixed rate ISA 
elsewhere, without loss of interest or other penalty, as long as she begins this transfer 
process within 14 days of accepting this final decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman