DRN-2952695
The complaint
Miss G complains that Revolut Ltd restricted access to her account, and sent her funds to a
third party. Shed like her money returned and compensation for the impact caused.
What happened
Miss G had an account with Revolut.
On the 24 May 2019 Revolut restricted Miss Gs access to her account. Soon after the block
Miss G made contact with Revolut to find out why her account was restricted.
Revolut explained to Miss G they were reviewing her account, but didnt explain why, ask for
any documentation or provide Miss G with a likely timescale on when the review would be
completed.
On the 18 August 2019, after completing their review, Revolut closed Miss Gs account and
explained theyd returned her funds to source.
Miss G complained to Revolut, but they didnt uphold her complaint. She explained theyd
sent her salary from her account and as a consequence she couldnt pay her rent. Revolut
didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint  they explained theyd followed the terms and conditions 
of Miss Gs account and acted fairly in returning her funds to source.
Miss G wasnt happy with Revoluts response so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Gs complaint. Our investigator asked Revolut to
explain why theyd returned her funds to a different source and Miss G to provide proof of
entitlement for the disputed funds. Miss G provided a pay slip showing that the funds in her
account came from her employment. Our investigator thought that Revolut had acted within 
the terms and conditions of Miss Gs account when restricting and closing it. But, hadnt 
acted fairly in sending Miss Gs funds to a third party and were satisfied that the evidence 
Miss G had provided showed she was entitled to the funds. She recommended that Revolut 
pay Miss G the balance on her account at the time of closing and £100 in compensation.
Revolut didnt accept our investigators view. 
In response they argued that theyd acted within the relevant regulations by returning 
Miss Gs funds to source. However, they agreed to pay Miss G £100 in compensation for the 
distress caused to her.
Miss G also asked what happened to the £60 transfer which took place whilst her account
was restricted, and shed like this looked into.
Because Revolut didnt accept our investigators view the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. On reviewing Miss Gs complaint I came to a slightly different decision. And I 
recommended that Revolut return Miss Gs funds plus 8% interest and pay £200 
compensation. I asked both parties to reply by the 13 July 2021. 
Miss G accepted my recommendation. But Revolut didnt reply. So Ive proceeded to review 
my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not changed the conclusion Ive reached in my provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Account restriction and closure:
Revolut restricted Miss Gs account on the 24 May 2019, following notification from the
sending bank regarding the receipt of fraudulent funds. Revolut completed their review and
closed Miss Gs account on the 18 August 2019. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of
Miss Gs account, and Im satisfied that Revolut are entitled to restrict Miss Gs access:
27.7. We reserve the right to change, suspend or discontinue any aspect of the Revolut
Services at any time, including hours of operation or availability of the Revolut Services or
any Revolut Services feature, without notice and without liability.
However, Ive also considered whether the length of time Revolut restricted Miss Gs
account for was reasonable. The banks not provided any evidence to explain the length of
time the account was restricted for  and theres no indication that the bank asked Miss G for
any proof of entitlement for the funds in her account at the time of the restriction. On
considering this Im satisfied that Miss Gs account restriction should have been completed
within a much shorter time frame and no longer than 14 days.
Account funds
On the 18 August 2019 Miss Gs account was closed, but her funds werent returned.
Revolut have argued that they acted within the relevant regulations  and returned Miss Gs
funds to source. Im surprised that Revolut didnt ask Miss G at any point to provide proof of
her entitlement to her funds  which is something Id have expected them to do. On picking
up Miss Gs case our investigator asked Miss G for proof of entitlement for the funds  and
Miss G explained that the vast majority of the funds were her salary, which was paid to her
after the account was restricted. Ive seen a payslip provided by Miss G which shows she
was due to be paid almost £1,300 on the 5 June 2019. Revolut havent provided any further
information to indicate why they think Miss G isnt entitled the funds. They also argued that
the funds  which were from Miss Gs employer  were returned to source. However, from
the evidence Revolut have provided I can see this isnt the case. And in fact the funds were
sent to a third partys account.
Ive also considered the level of service Miss G was provided with whilst her account was
restricted. As I previously mentioned Ive not seen any evidence that Revolut asked Miss G
to provide any proof of entitlement for the funds in her account  or gave her any indication
of how long her account might be restricted for. I think, along with incorrectly sending
Miss Gs funds to a third party, this caused Miss G some inconvenience. Miss G has 
explained to our service that she was unable to pay her rent and was concerned about being
evicted. For this reason I think a small compensation payment should be made.
Miss G responded to our investigators view by questioning a £60 transaction which took
place whilst her account was restricted. Ive looked at Miss Gs account statements and Imsatisfied that although it appears £60 was transferred out of her account, her account
balance wasnt reduced. And the funds sent to the third party on the 18 August 2019
included the £60 credit. 
Response to my provisional decision:
As I detailed above Miss G accepted my provisional decision and Revolut didnt reply. Based 
on this I see no reason to change the conclusion I reached in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I direct Revolut Ltd to:
Refund Miss G £1,348.03
Pay 8% interest from the 7 June 2019 to the date the funds are returned
Pay Miss G £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold Miss Gs complaint and direct Revolut Ltd to carry out the 
redress as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman