DRN-3115954
Complaint
This complaint is about a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with 
a store card in 2002. Mrs N says she was mis-sold the PPI.
The credit facility for the account was provided by a high street bank, but there has been a 
recent change in the company which is responsible for answering these types of complaint. 
The company now responsible is called AXA France IARD. Ill therefore refer mainly to AXA 
France IARD throughout this final decision, for consistency.  
Background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt be 
upheld. Mrs N disagreed with this and so its been passed to me for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
Weve seen a few of these types of complaint and as a consequence, weve looked into the 
sales process to see what we think usually happened. From the computerised records I still 
have access to, it looks like Mrs N took her card account out in August 2002 and operated it 
for a while without any PPI.  By definition therefore, I think its safe to say she would have 
known getting her card account wasnt dependant on her having to also have PPI. I see 
there was also a choice about PPI on her card application card and she indicated on this that 
it wasnt something she wanted to add at that point.
The PPI was added in November 2002 by way of a phone marketing call. We no longer have 
access to the phone call recording, but from our experience, we think its more likely that 
consumers like Mrs N were required to consent to the PPI being added before it was loaded 
on to their account.
Mrs N understandably doesnt remember agreeing to this and I dont doubt her honesty. But 
we know she subsequently went on to be charged for PPI, so I think the charges would have 
started to show up on her accounts monthly statements. She would have been able to see 
therefore that PPI charges were starting to occur after the phone call and been able to ask 
what they were for if she wasnt sure. So I think its more like her consent was obtained at 
the time.
This was a non-advised sale. This means AXA France IARD needed only to provide 
enough clear information for Mrs N to decide for herself whether she wanted the cover. I 
acknowledge AXA France IARD could have possibly set out the information about the PPI in 
a better way, but overall think its more likely there was a sales script which the call agent 
was told to follow so Mrs N had access to enough information to allow her to make an 
informed decision. 
I think Mrs N possibly had some sickness protection already with her job, implying she didnt 
need any PPI. I understand why shes told us this and Ive thought very carefully about the 
benefits Mrs N says she enjoyed. She also said her husband worked. But these dont 
necessarily mean the PPI wasnt of use. 
Mrs N was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to 
see in some of these policies. The cost of the PPI offered was relatively expensive, but the 
benefits the policy offered gave more protection than most credit cards. For example, if shed 
become unable to work or lost her job, the PPI wouldve paid off 15% of her outstanding 
store card balance each month until she returned to work or until all the balance was 
returned to zero. These benefits wouldve been in addition to any other means Mrs N had in 
place at the time. Ive also considered what she said about her husband, but this doesnt 
conflict with wanting to take out an insurance policy for something.
So Im afraid I cant safely say this policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Ns complaint. AXA France IARD does not need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman