DRN-3146614
The complaint
Ms H complains Lloyds Bank PLC didnt credit her account with money she says she asked 
to be deposited into her account. 
What happened
Ms H says she went into a Lloyds branch and gave a member of staff £20,000 to be paid 
into her account. Ms H says the money wasnt paid into her account, so she complained. 
Lloyds responded and said they had spoken with each member of staff, the senior manager 
for the branch and their risk department. They said they couldnt find any evidence of this 
money being handed to any member of staff. Lloyds asked Ms H to contact them if she could 
provide any further information about her visit to the branch, such as the date of her visit. 
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Ms H. He didnt uphold the complaint on the basis 
there wasnt any evidence of Ms H handing the money to a member of staff. Ms H disagreed 
so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Ms H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Lloyds have provided notes of their contact with Ms H. In discussions with Lloyds, Ms H 
explains she previously visited the branch at some point between 23 April and 30 June 2021 
with two envelopes, each containing £10,000 in cash. She said a member of staff took the 
two envelopes and explained they need to take it to the back office to pay it in. Ms H 
explains she forgot to ask for a receipt at the time. 
Ive listened to phone calls between Ms H and Lloyds. In one of the calls with Lloyds the 
complaints manager asks questions to try and narrow down the date when Ms H visited the 
branch. For example, she asks about Ms Hs movements that day and whether she paid for 
parking. Ms H explains she parked in a supermarket which was free. The complaints 
manager then asks if Ms H bought anything from the supermarket and had a receipt as this 
would help to determine the date. I think Lloyds tried their best to gather as much information 
as possible during the call to help narrow down the date Ms H visited the branch. Ms H isnt 
able to provide any further information. 
Lloyds then carry out an investigation based on the information they have. Ms H recalls the 
name of the member of staff she says took the two envelopes. Lloyds say she was 
interviewed but doesnt remember this transaction. And, theyve also interviewed all other 
staff at the branch. Two different members of staff also twice checked and verified every 
£20,000 transaction. The branch was also searched but Lloyds couldnt locate the money. 
Lloyds also explain their CCTV recordings dont go back too far as they only retain them for 
a certain period of time. And, the CCTV recordings would no longer be available.      
I recognise that Ms H maintains her account of events and is adamant a member of staff 
took the £20,000 from her. I understand she feels strongly about this and shell be 
disappointed with my decision. I also acknowledge Ms H has been through difficult personal 
circumstances and Im sorry to hear about the impact this has had on her. But based on 
everything Ive seen, I think Lloyds have acted reasonably in how theyve carried out their 
investigation. I acknowledge any investigation can become limited without a precise date or 
a narrow timeframe. But in this case, I think Lloyds have taken reasonable steps to help    
Ms H to narrow down the date she says she visited the branch. Its unfortunate Ms H hasnt 
been able to provide any further details and I can see Lloyds have invited Ms H to contact 
them if she is able to provide any further information. Based on the information I have, I cant 
say there has been an error here by Lloyds.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman