DRN-2740044
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received from Health-on-line Company UK Limited 
(HOL) and that the price had gone up for his personal private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R held a personal private medical insurance policy which was sold by HOL and which 
was underwritten by an insurer Ill call A. Hed held a policy for a number of years, but in 
2013, he switched to a different type of policy which provided slightly different benefits.
In 2017, Mr R made a complaint about the sale of his policy. HOL looked into Mr Rs 
concerns and issued its final response. In March 2018, Mr R called a manager at HOL to 
discuss his remaining concerns about the sale of his policy and was told hed get a call back. 
However, this didnt happen. Mr R was also unhappy with the fact the price of his policy had 
substantially increased at the 2019-20 renewal.
Subsequently, in March 2020, Mr R asked us to look into his concerns  about the sale of his 
policy; the fact he hadnt had a call back from HOL in March 2018 and the increase in the 
price of his policy. We treated Mr Rs complaint about the sale of his complaint separately 
and our investigator explained why she didnt think we had the power to look into it.
Our investigator asked HOL to explain why Mr Rs price had increased at the 2019-20 
renewal. HOLs pricing team provided evidence that the increase in price was down to the 
claims Mr R had made during the previous policy year, which had impacted his no-claims 
discount. So the investigator thought Mr Rs premium had been calculated fairly.
The investigator considered HOLs failure to call back Mr R in March 2018. HOLs notes 
suggested Mr R had wanted to talk about the mis-sale complaint which HOL had already 
addressed in December 2017. So the investigator didnt think HOL had acted unfairly by not 
responding to matters itd already looked into. She didnt think HOL needed to take any 
action.
Mr R disagreed. He said that it was a general principle that if someone says theyll do 
something, then it must be done. 
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think HOL has done anything wrong which it needs to put right. Ill 
explain why.
The price of Mr Rs policy
First, its important I explain that HOL wasnt responsible for the setting of Mr Rs premiums. 
Premiums are generally set by the policy underwriter (in this case, A) when a policy is first 
taken out and at any subsequent renewal. An insurer will generally consider whether or not it 
wishes to offer insurance to a customer and if so, what price it wishes to charge to cover the 
risk of a claim. We wont tell an insurer what policies it should offer and what premiums it 
should charge a policyholder. What we can do though is to check that a policyholder has 
been treated fairly and hasnt been singled out in any way.
Nonetheless, HOL provided information to us about how Mr Rs price was calculated for the 
2019-20 policy year. As this information is commercially sensitive to both A and HOLs 
businesses, Im afraid I cant share this with Mr R. But I can reassure him that as the 
investigator explained, the main reason for the increase in the price was the fact that the 
claims he made meant his no claims discount was reduced. And its clear from the policy 
paperwork that any policyholder in the same situation as Mr R wouldve been subject to the 
same impact on their no claims discount. So it doesnt look like Mr Rs been singled out in 
any way.
Mr R doesnt appear to dispute our investigators findings on this point, so I dont propose to 
consider this in greater detail. But for completeness, Im satisfied on the evidence Ive seen 
that Mr Rs premium was calculated fairly.
HOLs failure to return Mr Rs call
Ive seen a copy of HOLs notes and I can see that Mr R called in March 2018 to speak to a 
manager. And I can see he was told hed get a call back. Its unfortunate Mr R didnt get a 
call back from HOL and I can understand why he was disappointed and frustrated when this 
didnt happen. It does seem from the notes that Mr R wanted to discuss the complaint HOL 
had already responded to though and Ive seen that HOLs response to that complaint did 
refer Mr R to our service if he was unhappy. This option was available to him from December 
2017 onwards. 
So while I can appreciate that there was a failure to call Mr R back, I dont think this 
prevented him taking further steps if he wanted to pursue his concerns through our service. 
And while Ive recognised the disappointment the lack of a call back caused Mr R, I note 
HOLs explained that a call back regarding historic complaints wouldnt have meant a 
change in outcome for Mr R. So in these circumstances, I dont find that HOL needs to pay 
Mr R any compensation or do anything more.
Overall, having considered all of the evidence, I think HOL has treated Mr R fairly.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman