DRN-2880076
The complaint
Miss B says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Miss B took out a PPI policy in 2002 when she arranged a mortgage. She paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. The policy wouldve covered her repayments for up to 12 months at a 
time if Miss B was unable to work through accident, sickness or if she was made redundant.
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken them into account in deciding Miss Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Bs complaint. I explain why below.
Its maybe not surprising that neither Nationwide nor Miss B have any documentation from 
the sale, considering that it happened in 2002, over 19 years ago. Businesses are not 
obliged to keep their documentation indefinitely. So, I have no documentary evidence to 
consider. And I must give some thought to the way the passage of time can affect the 
accuracy of recall from events that happened over 19 years ago. But where there is limited 
information, Ill make my decision based on what I think more likely happened, taking into 
account the evidence available, what both parties have told me and what we know about 
these types of sale. So, having considered all the submissions I have received in this case, 
considering how long ago the sale was, and in the absence of any detailed testimony from 
Miss B to the contrary, I think its more likely that Nationwide wouldve made Miss B aware 
that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it, even though she may not remember 
that now, many years later. 
 
Nationwide didnt recommend that Miss B take the PPI, so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. Instead Nationwide had to provide information that was clear and not 
misleading so that Miss B could decide about the policy for herself. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But based on what I know about Miss Bs circumstances and the cost of 
the policy, I dont think better information would have stopped her from buying it.
I say this because Miss B was eligible for the policy, and whilst there were some things the 
policy wouldnt cover, it doesnt look as though any of those things applied to Miss B at the 
time the PPI was taken, such as pre-existing medical conditions or non-standard 
employment terms. 
And I think Miss B could have found the policy useful. I say this because Miss B told us she 
would have had good sick pay from her employer. But the policy could have paid in addition 
to her company sick pay and for longer than her employer would have paid her at her full 
rate of pay. And Miss B told us she had limited other means she could have relied on in the 
event of long-term ill health, or if she lost her job. So, I think the policy could have been 
useful to Miss B. 
So, I dont think that Miss B lost out as a result of anything Nationwide might have done 
wrong. This means Nationwide doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Nationwide didnt need to disclose the commission it received, 
so Nationwide doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Miss B paid. My reasons are 
set out below.
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin 
v Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes 
need to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to certain types of credit taken out and still running at certain times. 
From the information that has been submitted in this case those dates do not apply to the 
date this credit was taken out and held until, so it falls outside of the scope for our 
consideration. So, I dont think Nationwide have to refund any of the commission paid on 
the PPI policy.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman