DRN-3339145
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) asked 
her to pay their success fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim she said she 
hadnt authorised them to make.
What happened
Mrs G said shed a successful mis-sold PPI claim with a lender Ill call T. Mrs G said shed 
used the services of a claims management company (CMC), and after her claim was 
successful she paid them their success fee. But in April 2021 she said FTR asked her to pay 
their fee for the same successful claim. Mrs G said she spoke to FTR who said shed 
authorised them to act for her, and as her claim with T was successful their fee was 
justified. She complained to FTR.
FTR said a letter of authority (LoA) had been signed in August 2019 and theyd acted in 
good faith in submitting this to Mrs Gs lenders and pursuing Mrs Gs PPI claims based on 
the information provided to them in the initial application. FTR said theyd updated Mrs G 
when PPI had been found, and theyd provided her with their claims service. FTR said Mrs G 
had completed and returned the PPI questionnaire theyd asked her to complete to 
strengthen her claim that the PPI had been mis-sold. In December 2019 after T told them 
Mrs G had more than one CMC acting for her theyd asked her to complete another LoA to 
confirm that she wanted FTR to act for her. They said shed signed and returned the LoA in 
January 2020. And as her claim with T was successful they asked her to pay their success 
fee. 
Mrs G wasnt happy with FTRs response, she said shed never signed anything for FTR to 
act for her as shed authorised another CMC whod shed paid for her successful claim. She 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said T had told Mrs G when her claim was successful and which CMC that 
had acted for her. And they also told the CMC that Mrs G had a successful claim. As this 
wasnt FTR our investigator said that they should waive their fee.
FTR didnt agree. They said T had acknowledged their submission of Mrs Gs LoA and that 
theyd investigate her mis-sold PPI claim. And Mrs G had confirmed shed authorised them 
as the CMC acting for her. They asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs G disputes that she signed FTRs LoA in August 2019 and January 2020 as they werent 
the CMC shed authorised to make her mis-sold PPI claims. FTR feel strongly that theyd 
been authorised as Mrs G had agreed to their terms and conditions. And that it was their 
submission of the LoA that meant Mrs Gs PPI claim was successful.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given. Mrs G has said the signature on FTRs LoA isnt hers. But its not our role to 
validate a signature, we arent handwriting experts. In making my decision I need to 
determine whether I think its more likely than not Mrs G had or hadnt authorised FTR to act 
on her behalf. And to see whether FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with 
her.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI 
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many CMCs amended their terms 
and conditions in recognition of the expected high volume of claims. And reflected that lenders 
could investigate any claim based on a data subject request. Any further information such as that 
provided in a PPI questionnaire could be used to strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was 
mis-sold. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI 
and no further information was needed for them to investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is 
generally referred to as the claim being auto converted. 
But some lenders asked for a wet signature rather than accepting a digital signature and for the 
PPI questionnaire to be completed. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline 
wouldnt have been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for 
doing so.
So, Ive looked at what has happened. FTR has shown an online enquiry was made about 
mis-sold PPI for Mrs G on 24 July 2019. And they received a signed LoA with Mrs Gs details 
dated 06 August 2019, shortly before the deadline for making such claims. The personal 
details supplied match those Mrs G has given us. 
FTR has said Mrs G would have needed to agree to their terms and conditions for the LoA to 
be generated. And that the LoA could only be submitted when a signature was added. FTRs 
terms and conditions said:
 Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to
continue to provide You with the Claims Services.
In October 2019 T told FTR that theyd located PPI for Mrs G, and that they would keep 
them updated about her claim. FTRs records show that they sent in November 2019 several 
notifications to Mrs G about her PPI claim. The notifications gave a FTR customer reference 
number and said You Have Paid PPI The notifications also said that T had asked for a 
wet signature and for a PPI questionnaire to be completed. It went on to say the claim 
couldnt progress without both these steps being taken. 
PPI being found didnt automatically mean Mrs Gs claim was successful as it needed to be 
considered by T whether the PPI had been mis-sold to her . At the end of November 2019, 
T told FTR that another CMC was also acting for Mrs G. They said theyd check with Mrs G 
but wouldnt discuss the claim further with FTR as they didnt consider they were authorised 
to do this. 
I can see in December 2019 FTR updated Mrs G about what T had told them and asked 
her to withdraw her authority from the other CMC and to let T know. FTR told Mrs G theyd  continue to progress her claim. But I dont consider FTR would have had the authority to 
continue acting for Mrs G at this time without confirmation from her as to which CMC she 
wanted to progress her mis-sold PPI claim. And she hadnt provided FTR with an LoA with a 
wet signature that theyd told her they needed to progress her claim.
I can see from FTRs records that in January 2020 Mrs G told them shed returned the LoA. 
But FTR said they hadnt received it and sent another one to her. The notes also read:
The client also advised she has only got one CMC looking into her claim which is us she will 
contact Tesco to advise them that she wants us to continue with her claim. 
There is no further contact made by T with FTR after November 2019. And T in informing 
Mrs G her claim was successful referred to the other CMC in their response. They also told 
the other CMC of the successful claim. I think this shows that T didnt see FTR as being 
Mrs Gs representative and that it was the other CMC that shed authorised to act for her. I 
think this is supported by FTRs notes of 7 January 2020 as Mrs G said shed already 
returned the LoA. As FTR didnt receive this I think, on balance, this shows Mrs G had 
returned an LoA to someone other than FTR.
I also think given some of the similarities with FTR and the other CMCs name that its not 
improbable that Mrs G thought they were one and the same CMC, hence her belief she was 
only dealing with one CMC. And after being told by FTR they hadnt received the LoA she 
said shed returned she completed the LoA FTR sent to her in January 2020. 
FTRs records dont show any contact with or from Mrs G or T after January 2020. I cant 
see that FTR submitted the January 2020 LoA to T or that theyd asked Mrs G if shed 
removed her authority for the other CMC to act for her. It wasnt until  April 2021, some 14 
months after T had told Mrs G her claim was successful that FTR asked Mrs G about her 
claim. Mrs G called FTR to question their request, Ive listened to the call and Mrs G is 
adamant shes only used the other CMC.
So, taking all of the above into account I think T had accepted Mrs G had authorised 
another CMC to act on her behalf, and her claim was successful with them. As FTRs wasnt 
successful I dont think its fair or reasonable for them to charge Mrs G their fee.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance trading as Fast Track Reclaim to waive 
their fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman