DRN-4237604
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the interest rate Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) charged for her 
overdraft. She says BOS failed to advertise the rate that would apply for the use of the 
overdraft before it was used and that the charges have contributed to her financial 
difficulties.
What happened
Mrs W held an account with BOS with an overdraft facility with a £1,000 limit.
Mrs W complained to BOS that the interest rate charged on her overdraft differed from that 
of the online calculator and that the charges caused her extreme financial pressure.
BOS says all charges were applied correctly in-line with the terms and conditions of the 
account, but signposted Mrs W to its financial assistance team for assistance with any 
financial difficulties she was having.
Mrs W was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mrs Ws concerns and reached the conclusion that Mrs 
W wouldve likely been given notice of the upcoming charges a reasonable period in 
advance of them being applied and as there werent any signs of financial difficulty, they 
didnt think BOS had treated Mrs W unfairly.  
Mrs W disagreed she says BOS was aware of her financial difficulties yet still charged her an 
unacceptable level of overdraft interest and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
My role is to look at the problems Mrs W has experienced and see if BOS has done anything 
wrong or treated Mrs W unfairly. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Mrs W back in 
the position she wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award 
compensation that I think is fair and reasonable.
Mrs W is unhappy at the interest rate applied to her overdraft  she thinks BOS failed to 
advertise the rate of interest that would be applied before the overdraft facility was used. 
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts BOS charges are fair and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the 
costs of the service provided.
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. And this also applies in regards to how a bank runs its 
business. I cannot make a bank change its systems or processes such as how it works out 
what it is going to charge and who it will offer various rates too. 
All I can do is decide whether BOS treated Mrs W fairly and provided her with enough 
information to decide whether she wanted to use the overdraft facility on her account 
I think Mrs W wouldve understood that prior to using the overdraft facility there would be a 
cost for it. Mrs W says that BOS advertises that the typical rate charged would be 39.9%. 
But this doesnt necessarily mean that is what the rate Mrs W would be charged. BOS has 
told us the typical rate Mrs W saw advertised was for a different account and shown us 
under the terms and conditions for Mrs Ws account that its lowest rate is 39.9% but it can 
charge up to 49.9%. BOS provides a link to this in its current terms and conditions for 
information on overdraft interest rates for previous bank accounts. And the rate of overdraft 
interest charged is also shown on Mrs Ws bank statements.
If Mrs W wanted to know the exact cost she would be charged I think she wouldve been 
able to find this out by getting in contact with BOS directly had she chosen to do so. So Im 
satisfied there was enough information regarding the cost of the overdraft facility for Mrs W 
to decide whether she wanted to make use of it. 
If Mrs W, after using the overdraft found that the interest rate applied wasnt acceptable or 
different to what she expected, she could have then stopped using the overdraft facility. And 
if this wasnt possible she couldve got in contact with BOS about any financial difficulties 
she was facing. But Mrs W didnt do this she continued to utilise the overdraft facility for over 
a year.  
That said, BOS wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mrs W if it applied any 
interest, fees and charges to Mrs Ws account in circumstances where it was aware, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mrs W was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where BOS didnt treat Mrs W fairly and 
reasonably before Mrs W got in touch with it. I dont think that BOS did treat Mrs W unfairly 
or unreasonably here though. I say this because having looked at Mrs Ws statements, I can 
see little, if anything, to suggest that BOS ought to have realised Mrs W might have been 
experiencing financial difficulties prior to it being notified of this. 
Mrs Ws statements show that while Mrs W did use her overdraft, she rarely came near to 
the top of her limit was able to at times see a credit balance when credits came into the 
account. I also note that many of the transactions on the account appear to be non-
discretionary retail and leisure spends. So I dont think there were signs which ought to have 
alerted BOS to any potential financial difficulty before Mrs W raised it. And in these 
circumstances and where charges have been applied correctly in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account, I dont think that it was unreasonable for BOS to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges that it did in light of how Mrs Ws account was being 
used.
So overall and having considered everything I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman