DRN-1244730
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs P in 2000. The policy was 
taken out when Mr and Mrs P were applying for an increase to their mortgage. It provided 
cover if they couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didn't find that the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case.
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
-           If Lloyds gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ps needs?
-           Did Lloyds give Mr and Mrs P the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs P are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I concluded that the PPI wasn't mis-sold nd Ive set out my reasons below.
From what I've seen and been told, there is nothing to suggest that Lloyds didn't make Mr 
and Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional. They had to complete an application for the PPI 
that was separate to their loan application. So I think Mr and Mrs P would've realised they 
had a choice about buying the PPI and decided to take it out.  Lloyds accepts that it advised Mr and Mrs P to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it 
was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say 
this because:
-           Mr and Mrs P were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions.
-           Mr and Mrs P say they were entitled to sick pay from their employers if they were off 
work because of sickness or accident, and that Mrs P's benefits were particularly generous. 
I've noted everything Mr and Mrs P have said. But in their original submissions to this 
service Mrs P said she didn't know what her sick pay entitlement was when she bought the 
PPI. And she hasn't been able to provide any evidence of the sick pay she says she was 
entitled to at the time. So I don't think I can fairly and reasonably say that the PPI duplicated 
benefits that Mrs P already had. I'm also mindful that the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to 
Mr and Mrs Ps employer benefits. Having the policy in place would've meant they could use 
their employer benefits to pay for other expenses. So I think the policy wouldve provided a 
useful benefit to them if they couldnt work. 
-           Mr and Mrs P werent affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (such 
as those affecting people with pre-existing medical conditions, or those who were self-
employed). As Mr and Mrs P could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions and 
limitations.
-           The cost of the policy was set out in the PPI application form,  So I think Mr and Mrs 
P wouldve known how much they would be paying for the cover and found it acceptable. 
The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs P would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs P werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs P would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs P about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
 
 
 
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs P.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs P any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman