DRN-2063638
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC havent paid her any compensation for the mis-sale 
of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs P took out a credit card with PPI in 2001. The cost of the PPI was based on the cards 
balance. 
Lloyds agreed the policy may have been mis-sold. But they said Mrs P had never paid for 
PPI, so there was nothing to refund.
Mrs P came to our service and our adjudicator looked into things independently. Our 
adjudicator found that, based on the evidence, it didnt look like Mrs P had used her credit 
card, and so she hadnt paid for PPI.
Mrs P said she wouldve made good use of the card. She asked for an ombudsmans 
decision, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
While I know this will come as a disappointment for Mrs P, I dont think Lloyds need to pay 
her anything further here  Ill explain why.
When we find that a business has mis-sold PPI, we tell them to put their customer in the 
financial position they wouldve been in without PPI. That includes refunding any premiums 
that were paid.
The PPI premiums were based on the cards balance. So if the cards balance was zero, the 
PPI premiums were also zero.
Ive looked at Mrs Ps statements and the electronic records of her card. From what Ive 
seen, she doesnt appear to have ever used this card. Theres no record of her making any 
transactions or running up a balance, and her statements show a zero balance. That means 
she would not have been charged anything for PPI. And indeed, I cannot see any 
transactions for PPI in her records, either.
So Lloyds have evidenced that Mrs P didnt pay anything for PPI. And understandably, 
Mrs P doesnt still have any evidence to show that she did pay any PPI premiums. So as far 
as I can see, theres nothing for Lloyds to refund her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Lloyds Bank PLC need to do anything further in 
this particular case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman