DRN-2225006
The complaint
Ms D complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) refused her home 
insurance claim for a stolen bicycle. She says she was told when she bought the policy that 
she had cover for bicycles.
What happened
Ms D had a home contents insurance policy underwritten by Lloyds. In June 2019 they sent 
her the renewal documents.
On 28 June 2019 Ms D contacted Lloyds and told them she didnt want to renew because 
shed found cover cheaper elsewhere with accidental damage included. The agent told Ms 
D she already had accidental damage cover with Lloyds and referred her to what she 
described as the product information page of the renewal documents. The agent told Ms D 
she couldnt see her personalised renewal documents on screen, only template ones, but to 
help Ms D identify the correct page the agent said, it has a green umbrella.
Ms D then asked the agent if the six points (with green dots beside) were the covers she 
had. The agent explained that optional covers are things that can be added on and directed 
Ms D to look at the points under the section which started Contents - Private residence 
cover. She then confirmed Ms D had accidental damage cover and read through what else 
Ms D was covered for. The agent didnt mention pedal cycle cover. Ms D then accepted a 
revised renewal quote. Following this conversation Lloyds sent Ms D an updated set of 
renewal documents.
In March 2020 Ms Ds sons bicycle was stolen from the front of her property. When she 
contacted Lloyds to make a claim, it was immediately declined on the basis that she didnt 
have cover for pedal cycles.
Ms D complained. She said shed checked what was covered during calls with Lloyds staff 
and understood she had pedal cycle cover because it was under a green umbrella in the 
policy documents. In response, Lloyds explained that her policy didnt include cover for pedal 
cycles. They didnt agree that shed been told otherwise during the conversation shed had 
with the renewals team in June 2019.
Policy documents
Included in the information sent to Ms D on 28 June 2019 (and in the renewal pack sent on 
16 June 2019) was an Insurance Product Information Document. This read:
This document provides a summary of insurance cover provided by the policy. For 
complete pre-contractual and contractual information about the product please see 
your policy booklet together with your policy schedule.
What is this type of insurance?
This policy provides cover for contents. This includes loss or damage to the contents 
by fire, malicious damage, flood, storm, subsidence, escape of water and theft. 
Optional covers are available and will be shown on your policy schedule if you have 
chosen them.
The page continued with three text boxes  the first box, on the left side of the page, was 
headed with a picture of a green umbrella and the words What is insured?. The text in the 
box read:
Contents - Private residence cover - £75,000 (inner limits apply). Covers contents in 
your home, including contents in attached or integrated structures such as garages, 
for:
Replacement locks and keys - up to £250.
Alternative accommodation - up to £20,000.
Occupier's and public liability - up to £1,000,000.
Contents Optional Covers: 
Contents in outbuildings and in the open  covers contents in detached outbuildings, 
and in the open within the boundaries of your home.
Accidental damage - like a TV falling from a wall bracket.
Personal belongings away from the home.
Specified items - covers named high risk items and personal belongings.
Pedal cycles.
Students' contents away from home.
All the bullet points in this text box were coloured green.
The second page of the accompanying Policy Schedule began, The table below shows 
what's included in your policy, any optional cover chosen and the limits and excesses that 
apply. The table listed the cover limits and excesses for Private residence cover and 
accidental damage cover, and for Personal belongings away from home cover. Under the 
table it read:
Cover that can be added to your policy (subject to eligibility). Please Call XXXX for a 
Quote if you want to add cover.
The list below that included Pedal cycle cover.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint. Having listened to a recording of the 
conversation shed had with Lloyds on 28 June 2019, he didnt think shed been mis-advised. 
He said it was made clear that some of the cover was optional. He also noted that Ms D was 
encouraged to check the renewal documents to ensure the cover met her needs. He also 
thought the renewal documents, including Ms Ds policy schedule, made it clear that pedal 
cycle cover wasnt included. So, he thought Lloyds decision to decline her claim was fair.
Ms D didnt accept this outcome. And after listening to a recording of the call from 28 June 
2019, she said she still didnt think the agent had adequately clarified things. She added that 
the pedal cycle cover shouldnt have had a green dot beside it if it was optional.
Our investigator didnt agree that things hadnt been made clear to Ms D. So, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
Further informationOur investigator asked Lloyds if they had any further call recordings as Ms D said shed had 
another conversation after 28 June 2019 to make sure about what was covered. Lloyds 
had no evidence of a call between 28 June 2019 and the date of the claim.
In September 2020 Ms D let us know that the stolen bike had been recovered, so she was 
no longer seeking for Lloyds to pay her claim. But she still wanted a goodwill gesture to 
reflect that the policy had been mis-sold.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator, and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Ive listened to a recording of the conversation Ms D had with a Lloyds agent on 28 June 
2019 several times. I accept that there is a point in that conversation where the agent is 
specifically talking about accidental damage cover and where she could be interpreted as 
saying that if its got a bullet point by it and its in the box on the left, the policy holder has 
that cover. But the conversation didnt end at that point and I think the agent was always 
non-committal and expressed uncertainty about any optional cover that wasnt listed in the 
first set of bullet points under the section which started Contents - Private residence cover 

In acknowledgement of that uncertainty, and because she couldnt be sure she and Ms D 
were looking at the same thing, the agent said more than once that what optional covers 
Ms D had would depend on what shed chosen, and then read out what cover Ms D had. At 
no point did the agent mention, or say that Ms D had, pedal cycle cover.
So, taking the conversation as a whole, I dont think its reasonable to say that what the 
agent said should have led Ms D to believe she had all of the six types of cover listed under 
Contents Optional Covers:  in the box headed with the green umbrella.
Turning to the renewal documentation sent to Ms D after the call, I think Lloyds provided 
Ms D with enough information to make an informed decision about whether the level of cover 
offered by the renewal was suitable for her needs. I appreciate that Ms D thought she had 
cover for pedal cycles, and shes disappointed to find out that she doesnt. But I dont think 
thats because Lloyds didnt give her appropriate information about what the policy did and 
didnt cover.
In summary, Im satisfied that Lloyds didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when they reached a 
decision to decline Ms Ds claim. So, I wont be asking them to do any more.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman