DRN-4315676
The complaint
Mr R complains about American Express Services Europe Limiteds (AESEL) decision to 
reject a claim he made to them under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 
75).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr R, but I dont think AESEL have been unreasonable here. Ill 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a credit card, as is the case 
here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer Credit 
Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a 
like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's either a breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the laptop should 
have been of satisfactory quality when supplied and that the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
The supplier, and by virtue of section 75 also AESEL, are only responsible for faults that are 
either present, or developing, when the goods are supplied. Theyre not responsible for 
faults that occur later. And, as Mr R had the goods for over six months when the fault 
occurred the relevant legislation puts the onus on him to demonstrate the fault was present, 
or developing, when he bought the laptop.
Mr R has suggested the fault was caused because the battery had bulged and damaged the 
fan. Hes referred us to comments made in an on-line forum about similar issues. But I dont 
think that demonstrates the failure of Mr Rs laptop is because of that issue; Ive not been 
provided, for instance, with any expert view on the cause of Mr Rs specific laptop. So, Im 
not persuaded that AESEL were wrong to reject Mr Rs claim that the laptop had been 
developing an issue since he bought it.
The relevant legislation explains that when we consider whether goods are of satisfactory 
quality we should think about whether they have been durable. It was several years before 
Mr Rs laptop failed and I dont think a reasonable person would consider it not to have been 
durable.
Ultimately, I dont think AESELs decision not to uphold Mr Rs section 75 claim was unfair, 
and I think the compensation theyve provided in respect of the distress and inconvenience 
caused by delays was reasonable. Im not asking AESEL to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman