DRN-1951863
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a packaged bank 
account, called a Silver account. She paid a monthly fee for the account and received 
several potential benefits in return. She thinks that Lloyds should refund her all the fees she 
paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Lloyds sold the Silver account to Mrs K during March 2010. She kept it until at least 2019, 
although Im not sure if she still has it. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Ks complaint and didnt think that 
Lloyds had mis-sold the Silver account to her. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Lloyds 
should give her any money back.
Mrs K didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
(For some of the time Mrs K held the account, it was designated as a Silver Vantage 
account, which meant that providing she met certain condition in the way she managed her 
finances, she could gain some additional benefits, such as interest on her balance. However, 
for simplicity, I have used the single term Silver throughout this decision).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Mrs K and Lloyds have told us or sent us about the complaint, and Ive 
decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In 2010, Lloyds, along with other banks, was allowed to sell packaged bank accounts in two 
ways. It could do so without giving personal advice on an information-only (or non-advised) 
basis; or as an advised (or recommended) sale. Both Lloyds and Mrs K have told us that 
Lloyds advised her to buy the account during a meeting at one of its branches, which meant 
that Lloyds had to check the account met Mrs Ks needs, tell her about its cost and benefits 
and give her a choice about buying it. 
When Lloyds sold the Silver account to Mrs K, the potential benefits included travel 
insurance for journeys to Europe and mobile phone insurance. I understand that Mrs K 
travelled in Europe from time-to-time and owned a mobile phone, so it seems to me to have 
been reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Silver account to her. 
The account also had other benefits, including use of a car breakdown service, which Mrs K 
may not have needed, but the benefits came as a package and the account could still have 
been appropriate for Mrs K, even if she didnt need all of the potential benefits it could 
provide. 
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that Lloyds told Mrs K about the monthly fees for the 
account and I also think its very likely that it told her about the benefits; after all, it was trying 
to sell the account to Mrs K and it was in its own interests to tell her what she could gain by 
buying it.
However, the crux of Mrs Ks complaint is that she doesnt think that Lloyds gave her a fair 
choice. 
Mrs K wasnt born in the UK and has told us that in 2010 she had just moved to this country 
and didnt speak much English. Shes told us that she hardly understood anything Lloyds 
told her during the meeting, that she only wanted a basic, free-of-charge bank account and 
Lloyds didnt tell her that it had a free account option on the market. Lloyds has disagreed. 
It has told us that it gave Mrs K a fair choice. 
After so long has passed, I cant tell for sure what Lloyds said, or didnt say, to Mrs K during 
the meeting. I fully accept that Lloyds may have talked positively about the Silver account to 
her (for example, by telling her how the benefits may have matched her needs) but this 
doesnt mean it denied her a choice. Obviously, I dont know the exact level of Mrs Ks 
English in 2010, but I doubt that Lloyds misled her during the meeting. I think it probably did 
tell her that fee-free accounts were available and that it explained this well enough to give 
her a choice. 
Mrs K has also told us that she found some of the documents Lloyds sent her after the 
meeting hard to understand. I accept this, but as Im satisfied that Lloyds treated her fairly in 
the meeting (when it actually sold her the account) and met its obligations to her, I dont think 
this mean that it mis-sold the account to her.
So, in summary, I think it was reasonable for Lloyds to recommend the Silver account to Mrs 
K, and I think it probably told her about the accounts costs and benefits and gave her a 
choice. I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to Mrs K.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Ks complaint that Lloyds Bank 
PLC mis-sold the Silver account to her. I am not going to tell it to give her any money back. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman