DRN-2841402
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly declined a claim he made 
under his commercial property insurance policy.  
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr T is a landlord for a rented property. He had a tenant in place until 31 January 
2021. After the tenant moved out, Mr T noticed damage to the property.
Around a month later he contacted Aviva to make a claim for two weeks loss of rent. 
He said he was unable to place a tenant during this time due to the excess dust in 
the property caused by repairs.
Aviva considered the claim and declined it. It said the property was still habitable as it 
had functioning toilet and kitchen facilities, heating, and running water. But it said it 
would consider a claim for reduced rent if Mr T could demonstrate he had a tenancy 
agreement in place at the time. 
Mr T brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. He said Mr T did not appear to have a tenancy in 
place at the time of the claim, and he disagreed the property was uninhabitable in 
line with the terms of the policy.
Mr T disagreed, reiterating about the level of dust following works and disruption to a 
potential tenant had he placed one.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ts policy covers him for loss of rent  defined as money paid or payable to the 
policyholder for rental of the property  if the property cannot be lived in as a result of 
damage.
Simply put, the first part of these criteria means the property in question must be 
generating rent, or rent is payable. 
Mr T hasnt disputed that he had no tenancy agreement in place for the period hes 
seeking to claim for. So, Im satisfied there was no rent generated or due during this 
time. This means his losses were not covered in line with the policy terms.
Aviva hasnt disputed there was damage to the property. But its said the property 
could be lived in and wasnt unhabitable.
Even if I were to put aside the criteria related to rent being generated or owed, Im 
also not persuaded that Mr Ts property was uninhabitable. While I dont doubt 
having works carried out would carry a degree of inconvenience, this is not the same 
as a property being uninhabitable. And based on the information Ive been given, Ive 
seen no disruption to essential facilities or enough to persuade me to conclude the 
property could not be lived in. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman