DRN-2198055
The complaint
Miss M is unhappy with Great Lakes Insurance SEs response after making a claim under
her mobile phone insurance policy.
All reference to Great Lakes includes their appointed agents.
What happened
In November 2019, Miss M claimed under her mobile phone insurance for cracks to the
phones screen. Miss M says the phone continued to function fine and the damage was to
the screen only.
Miss M sent the phone to Great Lakes for repairs and it was returned to her in December
2019. Miss M says the screen was fixed but the touchscreen was now unresponsive 90% of
the time.
Miss M then took the phone to a walk-in repair centre which replaced the screen. Miss M
says the phone was working when she left the repair centre but reverted back to an
unresponsive touchscreen on the way home.
Miss M organised a further repair with Great Lakes as she was due to travel shortly after.
Great Lakes sent Miss M some packaging to return the phone. Miss M says the packaging
provided was too small, so she sourced her own packaging and returned the phone once
she had come back from abroad. Great Lakes received the phone and said it had suffered
further damage  the screen was cracked and there were impact marks present.
Great Lakes said it was now unable to carry out repairs to the phone as it could no longer
assess the unresponsiveness of the screen due to the damage. So it returned the phone to
Miss M and declined her claim.
Miss M complained to Great Lakes and it maintained its decision to decline the claim, so she
referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and initially recommended the complaint be upheld.
She found on balance that the phone screen was unresponsive when Miss M received it
back from Great Lakes. She was persuaded the screen broke in transit when Miss M sent
the phone back for a third repair and acknowledged Miss M had been travelling which
explained the delay in returning the phone for repairs.
Our investigator recommended Great Lakes pay the cost to replace Miss Ms phone at the
market value it was worth in December 2019, plus 8% simple interest to the date of
settlement. She also recommended £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Miss M accepted our investigator findings, Great Lakes disagreed. It said it had offered to
repair Miss Ms phone under guarantee as Miss Ms policy had lapsed from December 2019.
It said the report from the walk-in repair centre stated the phone was working fine after the
repair, and it appeared the phone was still operational to a large degree until Miss M
returned it. Great Lakes added its returns packaging was a universal size to accommodate
all makes and models, so it didnt think it was too small for Miss Ms phone.
Great Lakes added the damage it had seen wasnt consistent with a failure of the packaging
used and it believed its assessment that further damage had occurred was fair. It said it was
unable to do further tests and as such couldnt see what damage was caused by the faulty
repairs. It said that as the policy had lapsed it couldnt consider a further claim for the new
damage and it wasnt responsible for it.
Our investigator looked at everything again and recommended the complaint not be upheld.
She found Miss M could still use the phone and the store had reported it working when they
repaired it. She acknowledged there was limited information about what had happened to
the phone in transit but based on everything she couldnt say Great Lakes had done
anything wrong. She found that as it hadnt been shown the unresponsive screen was as a
result of the earlier repair she couldnt ask Great Lakes to do anything further.
Miss M disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
She explained the delay in sending her phone back was because it was her primary work
phone. Miss M acknowledged it was difficult to prove the phone was defective based on its
current state, but she said Great Lakes should take the bulk of the responsibility, as it was
their defective repair that caused the issue in the first place. She felt that Great Lakes
version of events had been taken over hers.
The complaint was referred to me and on 8 September 2020 I issued my provisional 
findings. Ive included an extract below for context:
Based on everything Ive seen, I am persuaded Miss Ms phone was returned in a defective
state following the initial repair. I say this because Great Lakes initial claim notes state the
phone is all functional, purely cosmetic damage to the screen, and goes on to state
shattered/cracked front screen. Cosmetic damage only. Great Lakes completed a repair
and returned the phone. But later the technicians report from the repair shop shows Miss M
discussed the unresponsive screen when she took the phone in for a further repair. She then
phoned Great Lakes later that day as the phone screen had failed again a few hours after
the repair.
There is some discrepancy in the evidence as to the functionality of the phone following the
repairs. Great Lakes say it appears the phone was operational to a large degree until Miss M
returned it. Miss M says the phones function was severely impaired and the screen was only
responsive roughly 10% of the time. I am more persuaded by Miss Ms testimony here.
On balance, I think it is more likely than not the phones unresponsive screen happened
whilst in the possession of Great Lakes. If the screen was unresponsive prior to this, then I
think it is likely Miss M would have raised this as part of her claim as she would have wanted
a full repair.
Great Lakes has said it was unable to carry out an investigation into the cause of the
unresponsive screen as the phone was returned in unapproved packaging and with other
significant damage. Ive seen photos of the phone as it was returned and there is a large
impact mark on the screen. Miss M says the screen wasnt cracked when she posted it  but
she did have to use her own padded envelope as the one provided by Great Lakes was too
small.Great Lakes says its packaging accommodates all makes and models. I havent seen an
example of its packaging from either party, but in any event I think Miss M took a risk in
using her own envelope to send the phone back rather than querying this with Great Lakes
first. So I am satisfied that it wont now be possible for Great Lakes to determine what
damage it may have caused. And as the policy has now lapsed, a new claim for this damage
cant be submitted.
In this case however, I dont think it would be fair to say Miss M is fully to blame. She has
provided evidence to show the phone wasnt fully functional after the repair and I think Great
Lakes needs to acknowledge this. But I cant hold Great Lakes responsible for the damage
caused to the phone in transit, as the policy does not provide cover for the event here.
In order to put things right, I have considered what Great Lakes would be required to do
under the policy should it be unable to repair the phone. The policy states, Your scheme
administrator will endeavour to replace your mobile phone with an identical, fully refurbished
(or new where a refurbished model is not available) mobile phone of the same age and
condition as your mobile phone.
As such, I think in this case it would be reasonable for Great Lakes to make a contribution of
50% towards the cost of a replacement refurbished handset of the same model, age, and
condition as Miss Ms phone. This takes into account that it has been unable to show it
successfully repaired Miss Ms handset, but also takes into account there was damage
caused to the handset for which it was not liable.
Ive done some research to see if there were refurbished models of Miss Ms phone around
the time she returned it in December 2019. And Ive found a number of these listed on a
website with the same specification and colour. The site goes on to state that the value of
these refurbished models in December 2019 was £357.10. So I intend to require Great 
Lakes to pay Miss M 50% of this amount.
Developments
Miss M accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Great Lakes didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed my mind about what Ive seen. There is no new evidence 
for me to consider. So Ill be upholding this complaint and I will require Great Lakes to put 
things right as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Great Lakes Insurance SE to:
Partially settle the claim and pay Miss M 50% of the market value of the phone in
December 2019, which amounts to £178.55;
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the phone was returned
(7 December 2019) to the date of settlement.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman