DRN-1593880
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have a mortgage with Nationwide Building Society and are unhappy about 
what happened when they were arranging a further advance to pay off their Help to Buy 
(HTB) equity loan.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H bought their house in 2015. They put down a 5% deposit and arranged a 
mortgage with Nationwide for 75% of the purchase price. The remaining 20% was funded by 
an HTB equity loan.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs H wanted to pay off the HTB loan and obtained an independent 
valuation of their property (going forward Ill refer to this as the HTB valuation). The HTB 
valuation originally came in at £320,000 but was increased to £370,000 after Mrs H queried 
it with the surveyor. That valuation was used to calculate how much Mr and Mrs H would 
need to pay to redeem the HTB loan; that is, what was 20% of the current property value. 
Based on the original HTB valuation they would have needed to pay £64,000 but based on 
the revised HTB valuation they had to pay £74,000.
Meanwhile Nationwides internal systems calculated the property value at around £350,000 
which wasnt enough for Mr and Mrs H to borrow the amount they needed. So, Nationwide 
instructed a valuation to be carried out for its purposes which also came in at £370,000 
(going forward Ill refer to this as the Nationwide valuation). This allowed Mr and Mrs H to 
borrow the amount they needed, which they did, and they repaid the HTB loan.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs H complained to Nationwide saying the Nationwide adviser told Mrs H to 
appeal the HTB valuation which led to them having to pay more to redeem the HTB loan. 
They say their neighbour had just paid off their HTB loan (theyd also bought their home 
through the HTB scheme and Nationwide) and they hadnt been told to do that so had paid 
off their HTB loan based on a lower HTB valuation. They also said they felt overly scrutinised 
throughout the underwriting process. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint, saying there must have been confusion when 
Nationwide had talked about valuations between the HTB and Nationwides valuations. It 
also said the questions it asked were a normal part of the process.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree 
and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs H wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
This has been a difficult case to decide because whilst Mr and Mrs Hs testimony  in itself  
is evidence (and Ive treated it as such) I have to consider it against the other evidence and 
keep in mind any anomalies, however small. 
For instance, Mr and Mrs H told us that they were unaware of the process of repaying the 
HTB loan, so they contacted Nationwide to set up an appointment. They say they had an 
initial phone appointment with the adviser on 28 September [The adviser] advised on the 
process and said that we would need to get an independent RICS valuation done for Help to 
Buy which we would need to arrange ourselves and that Nationwide may also need to do a 
valuation. They went on to say I booked the Help to Buy valuation the same day with the 
implication being that was after the phone call, as Mr and Mrs H have told us they were 
unaware of the process before then.
But weve got the email trail between Mrs H and the surveyor when Mrs H was booking the 
HTB survey. The initial email from the surveyor to Mrs H (following an enquiry shed made) 
was on 28 September at 7.27am, and Mrs H confirmed she wanted to go ahead with that at 
7.47am. Whilst its possible Mrs H had the initial phone meeting with the mortgage adviser at 
such an early hour that it had finished by 7.27am its unlikely, so on balance it seems that in 
this part of their testimony, Mr and Mrs H are mistaken in their recollection.
Mrs H says she emailed the Nationwide adviser after receiving the HTB valuation and he 
called her back. She says he told her on the phone that the HTB valuation figure was a 
problem, and it was decided shed go back to the surveyor to ask the figure be reviewed. 
Mrs H also says The surveyor agreed to increase the figure after going away and reviewing 
some details.
Unfortunately calls made from a branch arent recorded. What I can see from the email trail 
provided is that the surveyor emailed the HTB survey report to Mrs H at 4.56pm on 
4 October. At 5.13pm that same day Mrs H replied I must admit I'm a little surprised by the 
result of this as our neighbours recently sold for £370k (almost identical to ours) and we had 
a recent estate agents valuation of £375k. We needed it to be about £365 in order to 
remortgage. 
The surveyor replied at 5.21pm I have had a look and I was being much too conservative - I 
have revised the valuation and it is attached herewith.
So, again this timeline doesnt support Mr and Mrs Hs testimony of what happened as the 
surveyor didnt have time to go away and review some details in the eight minutes between 
Mrs H emailing him to say she thought the valuation was too low, and him emailing back the 
amended valuation report at the higher amount. Mr and Mrs H also said Nationwide should 
have told them Mrs H had misunderstood the process when she said about appealing the 
HTB valuation, and it was negligent of Nationwide not to do so. But theres nothing to prove there was a phone conversation between Mrs H and the Nationwide branch mortgage 
adviser in the 19 minutes between the original HTB valuation report being emailed to her, 
and her reply appealing the amount. Whilst Mrs H says she emailed the adviser upon receipt 
of the HTB valuation and he called her back from the branch, theres simply nothing to 
support that.
Id like to make it clear that Im in no way doubting Mr and Mrs Hs integrity and honesty, Im 
certain theyve brought this complaint in good faith based on their recollections of what 
happened. But their recollections are of conversations that had happened two years earlier, 
and memories arent always precise. Im simply pointing out these anomalies to highlight 
why we cant uphold a complaint purely based on what Mr and Mrs H said happened when 
theres nothing to support that testimony.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs H are the ones bringing the 
complaint against Nationwide, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs Hs version needs to be 
more likely than Nationwides version; not just as likely. Having considered everything I cant 
say Mr and Mrs Hs version is anything more than just as likely, which isnt enough for me to 
uphold their complaint.
Finally, Mr and Mrs H also mentioned the level of scrutiny from the underwriter. Ive looked 
at what was asked for and theres nothing there Id class as excessive bearing in mind 
Mr and Mrs H were asking Nationwide to lend them a large sum of money, on top of their 
existing mortgage. Nationwide had a responsibility to check the entire debt would be 
affordable, and as part of that it had to ask questions about transactions that appeared on 
Mr and Mrs Hs bank statements.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman