DRN-4035240
The complaint
Mr P complains Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
Mr P is represented by a claims management company, but for ease Ill refer to all 
submissions as though they are his own.
What happened
In September 2018 Mr P was provided with a loan of £2,200 by Everyday Loans. The 
monthly repayments were around £185 over 36 instalments, with a total repayable value of 
around £6,640. 
Mr P complained to Everyday Loans in May 2022. He said it had irresponsibly provided him 
with the loan as had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks, it would have 
identified the loan was unaffordable for him. Mr P referred his complaint to our service when 
Everyday Loans didnt uphold it. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and upheld it. She said Everyday Loans had 
completed proportionate checks when assessing the lending request; but hadnt gone on to 
make a fair lending decision when approving the loan. She said this because she considered 
Everyday Loans had enough information, from the evidence it obtained, to suggest the loan 
wasnt sustainably affordable for Mr P.
Everyday Loans didnt accept our investigators outcome. It said it engaged with the 
information it obtained and identified that Mr P would be left with enough disposable income 
each month to be able to afford the repayments over the full term of the loan. It maintained 
its argument that it therefore made a fair lending decision. 
Everyday Loans asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. 
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Mr P. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Everyday 
Loans lent required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks 
needed to assess Mr Ps ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, 
without causing him financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but the checks should be 
proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the 
credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Everyday Loans to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This 
includes not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be 
made sustainably without the need to borrow further.
Everyday Loans says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks before going on to 
make a fair lending decision when approving this loan. Having carefully considered its 
argument, Im not persuaded it did complete proportionate checks; or went on to make a fair 
lending decision in this instance. Ive explained why below.
Everyday Loans says it went through an income and expenditure assessment with Mr P as 
part of its checks, obtaining declarations from Mr P. It has said it verified his income by 
obtaining one months payslip; and that it used ONS data to obtain a reasonable level of 
regular monthly expenditure for Mr P, as well as completing a credit check to identify his 
existing credit commitments. 
Mr Ps declared monthly income and expenditure generally matched the information 
Everyday Loans obtained through its checks of his payslip and the ONS data it used for his 
expenditure. But I consider the information it obtained within the credit check ought to have 
caused some concern for Everyday Loans, and ought to have prompted further checks. 
I say this because Mr P had opened three accounts within two months of this lending 
request. Two of the accounts appear to have been payday loans opened in June and July 
2018, suggesting Mr P wasnt able to maintain his existing living expenses without 
supplementing his income. And the other account was a credit card with a limit of £500. This 
credit card had been opened less than a month before this loan. So, while showing on the 
credit check, it hadnt reported for long enough to reflect a true position in terms of Mr Ps 
utilisation of the limit. Everyday Loans would have also seen that a more established credit 
card was above its agreed limit, and that Mr P had two active CCJs; although these were 
historic, Mr P still had an obligation to maintain payments to them. 
In addition to this information the affordability calculation Everyday Loans completed 
suggested Mr P was left with less than £50 disposable income per month, after all 
deductions, including repayment of this loan, were taken into account.
I therefore consider the evidence Everyday Loans obtained suggested Mr P was managing 
his finances to a very tight budget, and appears to have been supplementing his income in 
the months leading up to this lending to maintain his commitments. As such Everyday Loans 
ought to have looked to obtain a full understanding of his financial situation before agreeing 
to lend to him. It should have verified Mr Ps regular expenditure, in addition to his income 
and credit commitments, to ensure this loan would be sustainably affordable to him across 
the full term. 
One way it could have done this would have been to obtain bank statements evidencing his 
financial situation in the months leading up to the loan. Everyday Loans has said its checks 
included obtaining and reviewing up to two months worth of bank statements; however, it 
hasnt provided our service with a copy of these from the point of the lending decision. I can 
see it did request and obtain banks statements from Mr P as part of its review of his 
complaint, and it has forwarded us a copy of these. So, as Everyday Loans hasnt been able 
to evidence it did obtain and review Mr Ps bank statements as part of its original lending checks, Ive proceeded on the basis that these werent part of Everyday Loans checks at the 
point of the application. 
Ive used the bank statements to obtain an understanding of what Everyday Loans would 
likely have seen at the time of its lending decision, had it completed proportionate checks.
The bank statements confirm that Mr P was managing his account to a very tight budget, 
especially taking into account his relatively modest income. There is evidence of arranged 
and unarranged overdraft charges; Mr P went over his agreed overdraft limit on two separate 
occasions in July, and once in August 2018.  
Mr Ps monthly income is on average around £850, which was broadly in line with the 
income Mr P had declared on his application and was evident from the payslip Everyday 
Loans obtained. His regular expenditure totals on average around £600 per month, based on 
the statements Everyday Loans obtained at the point of the complaint. This expenditure is 
largely made up of household bills and transactions for food and petrol. This figure doesnt 
include payments to Mr Ps existing credit commitments, but based on the information 
Everyday Loans completed as part of its checks, it appears this loan wouldve been 
adequate to consolidate all of the existing credit commitments it had identified from Mr Ps 
credit file, as well as the payday loans he appears to have declared. But Mr P still needed to 
make payments towards his active CCJs, which Everyday Loans had allocated around £35 
to per month. 
This means Mr P would be left with around £215 disposable income each month, before 
taking into account the payments towards this loan of around £185. So, Mr P would be left 
with around £30 per month for all other expenses; and Im not persuaded this was 
sustainable. 
I say this because I dont consider having around £30 disposable income per month is a 
reasonable safety blanket for any unexpected costs than may occur; or gave Mr P 
reasonable space should he find that from month to month his non-discretionary expenditure 
increased even marginally. This loan was tying Mr P into a 36-month contract, and I dont 
consider this level of disposable income would be sustainable over such a period of time. 
Everyday Loans was also aware that Mr P was a homeowner as the credit check it 
completed evidenced a recently settled mortgage account, and Everyday Loans has stated 
that Mr P had an unencumbered property. Even so, it was aware that Mr P could likely 
experience unexpected costs associated with the property, even just for general wear and 
tear reasons. 
Had Every Loans completed reasonable and proportionate checks it ought to have identified 
that this lending, regardless of the purpose, was unsustainable or otherwise harmful to Mr P.
So, it therefore follows Im satisfied Everyday Loans made an unfair lending decision when 
providing Mr P with this loan.
Putting things right
As Mr Ps had the benefit of the lending, I think its fair that he repays the capital amount 
borrowed. But Mr P has paid interest and charges on a loan that has now been repaid but 
that shouldnt have been provided. So, I think Mr P has lost out and Everyday Lending 
Limited trading as Everyday Loans should put things right by taking the following action:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any payments made by Mr P should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If 
the payments Mr P has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him;
Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they 
were paid by Mr P, to the date the complaint is settled; and
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of this loan
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
deduct tax from this interest. Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans should 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ps complaint about Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans 
and direct it to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman