DRN-1964913
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably 
by declining a claim made under a health insurance policy. They want the outstanding claim 
paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had a health insurance policy with AXA. Mr C had needed a consultation 
which had been authorised by AXA and was due to take place on 30 April 2019. The 
consultation was re-arranged to May 2019 by the consultant, but the policy was cancelled on 
2 May 2019. AXA refused to pay for the May consultation as it said the policy only covered 
treatment that was undertaken during the policy and this was set out in the member 
handbook.
Mr and Mrs C complained to AXA, but it didnt change its position. They complained to this 
service. The investigators view was that AXA wasnt at fault. He said while it authorised the 
consultation and expected it to take place while the policy was in force, the change of the 
date of the consultation wasnt Mr C or AXAs fault. But the investigator pointed out that the 
policy stated that it didnt cover the costs of treatment incurred when no policy was in place 
and he thought that it was fair the consultation wasnt paid for by AXA.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed. They said that as AXA authorised the consultation when the policy 
was in force and it was a follow up appointment to treatment covered by the policy, the May 
consultation should be paid by AXA. The investigator didnt change his view as he said the 
policy made it clear what would happen if the policy ended and more costs were incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate that the May consultation was a follow up to treatment carried out when the 
policy was in force, but it was authorised by AXA when it was expected to take place when 
the policy was in force. Its postponement wasnt the fault of Mr C or AXA, but it did mean 
that the consultation then took place when no policy was in force. It was Mr and Mrs Cs 
decision not to renew.  
The terms and conditions of the policy says We will pay for covered costs incurred during a 
period for which the premium has been paid.; in other words, the insurer wont pay for 
treatment if no premium has been paid to cover the period of time when the cost was 
incurred. As this was set out in the terms and conditions of the policy, legally AXA doesnt 
have to pay and I dont think its fair or reasonable in the circumstances for me to ask it to do 
so.While the follow up appointment was connected to treatment covered by the policy, this isnt 
enough for me to set aside the agreement between the parties, especially as AXA wasnt 
responsible for the delay. The policy only covers the cost of authorised treatment carried out 
when its in force and this was made clear through the terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to accept or reject my decision 
before 27July 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman