DRN-3582038
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) 
handled a legal expense claim under their main home insurance policy.
References to RSA include the agents that handled the claim on RSAs behalf.
References to third-party include that insurer and the agents it used in dealing with Mr and 
Mrs P.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ps home insurance policy has a section of cover for legal expenses. It covers 
several different situations including the cost of pursuing action against a third-party who 
causes damage to their home. The background to Mr and Mrs Ps legal claim centred on 
damage caused to their home by the driver of a car who had careered on to Mr and Mrs Ps 
property. 
Mr and Mrs P were in contact with the third-party not long after the damage occurred and its 
apparent that the issue to resolve was the amount of compensation for the damage caused. 
But Mr and Mrs later contacted RSA to initiate a claim and RSA instructed panel solicitors, 
who accepted the claim had reasonable prospects of success. 
During the claim Mr and Mrs P became unhappy at the delay in receiving a settlement from 
the third-party and ultimately complained that their damages claim hadnt been met in full by 
the third-party insurer. Consequently, Mr and Mrs P say they were forced to accept a 
settlement of £3,318.34 when, they say, the repair costs were £3,500 plus VAT 
(£4,200). Theyd like to recover the shortfall of (£881.66).
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. She said it was reasonable for RSA 
to have panel solicitors assess the claims prospects of success (including proportionality) 
before accepting the claim. This was in line with the policy and standard industry practice. 
The investigator noted that Mr and Mrs P negotiated a settlement with the third-party without 
assistance from the panel solicitors and so she didnt think RSA needed to do anything 
further.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the investigator. In summary, the points they made included:
The policy contained provision for RSA to pay the reasonable value of the claim, 
instead of starting or continuing the legal action
So, did RSA consider this provision? If it didnt, why? 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules require RSA to, amongst other things, handle claims promptly and fairly and 
not unreasonably reject a claim.
The issue in this complaint is relatively narrow and arises because Mr and Mrs P believe that 
RSAs delay in dealing with the claim promptly effectively forced them to accept a settlement 
from the third-party which was less than what they paid in repairs.
The damage occurred in May 2021 and Mr and Mrs P were in contact with the third-party 
insurers representatives  Ive seen email communications from 23 June 2021 which makes 
it clear there had been correspondence between them. And it was apparent at this point 
there was an issue in particularising the full extent of costs. The third-party representative 
asked Mr and Mrs P for a detailed list of the material items required to reinstate the damage. 
Mr and Mrs P initiated their claim to RSA shortly after this.
Panel solicitors were appointed promptly, and the claim was considered to have reasonable 
prospects of success, albeit as the claim value was small it would impact on the amount of 
funding  this is the principle of proportionality. A prudent litigant is unlikely to pay 
disproportionate legal costs in pursuing a claim and I dont think its not unfair for an insurer 
to take a similar approach and assess proportionality. And whats also apparent is that the 
panel solicitors awaited further information from Mr and Mrs P that evidenced the value of 
their claim such that they could make a strong counter-offer to the third-party. 
The evidence on file that Ive seen from Mr and Mrs P, which they put forward as related to 
value, doesnt evidence the actual costs they paid, or the precise rectification work done and 
materials used. There is a table which contains information on the third-party loss adjuster 
assessment and Mr and Mrs Ps own assessment. But Im not persuaded that its sufficient 
to show the actual work done and materials necessary for rectification of the damage 
caused. What I do note is the final settlement they received from the third-party insurer was 
more than the loss adjuster had originally estimated. I take from this that there was some 
negotiation between Mr and Mrs P and the third-party.
Ive also seen an estimate from a property services company who quoted for the repair work, 
but this isnt evidence of the work done or sufficiently detailed such that its more persuasive 
than the third-party loss adjuster. As such, I think it was reasonable for RSA to request 
further detailed evidence on the value such that it could put forward a counter-offer.
The panel solicitors accepted that they had caused a short delay, and indeed they paid Mr 
and Mrs P a small amount of compensation. Ive also seen a letter from an investigator at 
the Legal Ombudsman commenting on the solicitors conduct and delay, recommending a 
nominal amount of compensation. 
I now turn to the policy wording that Mr and Mrs P have referred to. Under the legal claims 
conditions, it says the following:
The provider may decide to pay you the reasonable value of your claim, instead of starting 
or continuing the legal action. If they decide to do this, you must allow the provider to take 
over and pursue or settle any claim in your name, and give them the information and help 
needed to do so. This would be at our own expense and for our own benefit. [my emphasis]
This is not a mandatory requirement given that the provider (RSA) may decide to pay the 
reasonable value of the claim. As such, whether RSA considered this or not is not 
determinative of whether I would uphold the complaint. Its an option for RSA to consider 
whether to pay the reasonable value of the claim but without compulsion to even consider it.In summary, Im not persuaded from the information and evidence provided to uphold the 
complaint. Im not persuaded RSAs handling of the claim put Mr and Mrs P in a position 
where they had no option but to accept the third-partys settlement offer. While they point to 
several factors related to financial circumstances which they felt compelled them to accept 
the offer thats not RSAs fault. RSA reasonably wanted to see detailed evidence of the 
repair cost breakdown, but this didnt materialise in a sufficiently persuasive format. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman