DRN-3168422
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund a payment he made after 
falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In June 2020, Mr A says a work colleague recommended an investment opportunity to him. 
He was told one of her friends had invested a high amount and seen returns come back from 
the investment. Mr A was interested so he asked for contact details.
Mr A was given contact information for a UK based representative of an overseas brokerage 
firm. Ill refer to the brokerage as L. Mr A says he was given the website address for L, and 
he opened an online account with them. He was also told to download an App which linked 
his account with L to a trading platform, so he could monitor the trades and the effect on his 
balance. 
 
Mr A says that the referral from a work colleague persuaded him it was a genuine 
investment opportunity. And that the websites and contact with L further satisfied him that it 
was a legitimate investment.
Mr A initially invested £5,000 which he transferred to an overseas account held in the US.  
Mr A says his investment immediately appeared on his App trading platform and he watched 
the trades made with his funds and saw his balance increasing. Mr A says he received a 
further call from the UK rep for L who convinced him to invest more funds, so Mr A sent a 
further £5,000 which he transferred to an overseas account held in Singapore.
Not long after that, all of the trading on the platform stopped without any warning or 
communication, and Mr A became unable to contact anyone about his investment.
Mr A let HSBC know hed been the victim of a scam and HSBC opened a fraud claim for 
him. HSBC contacted the beneficiary banks that Mr A had sent his money to and were able 
to recover one of the £5,000 payments for him, but not the other one. Mr A asked HSBC to 
refund the remaining lost funds, saying they shouldve protected him and if theyd called him 
to discuss the payments, they couldve uncovered the scam and prevented the payments 
from being made in the first place. 
HSBC declined to refund Mr A saying that the payments hadnt triggered their systems, 
which is why they hadnt contacted him before processing them. And explained that Mr As 
payments werent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) that 
came into effect in May 2019, as it doesnt cover payments made to overseas bank 
accounts.
Mr A wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr As complaint but didnt uphold it. They said the two payments 
werent particularly unusual or out of character compared to previous account use, so they 
wouldnt have expected them to have caused HSBC concern or resulted in HSBC contacting 
Mr A before processing them. And, that HSBC had contacted the beneficiary banks to try 
and recover the funds for Mr A, but were only able to recover one payment of £5,000.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators opinion saying that HSBC didnt have the necessary 
checks in place and shouldve identified that he was potentially the victim of a scam. Mr A 
feels the payments shouldve triggered and resulted in HSBC contacting him.
As Mr A disagreed, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. In this case, as the 
payments were made to international bank accounts, they arent covered by the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code).
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly in processing Mr As payments, or whether 
they shouldve done more to prevent the payments from being made.
Should HSBC have done more to prevent the payments?
While I appreciate that Mr A feels strongly that HSBC shouldve done more, there is a 
balance to be struck between HSBC identifying payments which could be fraudulent  and 
then responding appropriately to their concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to 
legitimate payments. 
So, Ive looked at Mr As previous account use to see whether the payments he made were 
so unusual and out character that I think they shouldve flagged with HSBC as suspicious 
and resulted in HSBC contacting Mr A before processing them.
Having reviewed his statements, I can see that Mr A had two monthly direct debits set up on 
his account for approximately £1,500 each per month. And that hed made a payment to 
HMRC for just under £4,000 and a bill payment to his credit card of £10,000 around six months before making the first £5,000 payment. This means that the payment of £5,000 
wasnt, in my view, particularly unusual or out of character.
I appreciate that it was an international payment which Mr A hadnt made before and that 
there was a second payment of £5,000 two weeks later. However, the two payments werent 
made as part of a series or run of payments, or multiple payments made in a short timeframe 
which is common where a consumer has fallen victim to a scam. And, while £5,000 is a lot of 
money to Mr A, the size of the payment isnt enough to convince me that HSBC shouldve 
flagged them as potentially suspicious.
Mr A has raised concerns about HSBCs processes and the checks they have in place to 
monitor their customers accounts for fraud. But our remit doesnt allow us to look at the 
systems or the operation of financial businesses. Our role is to look at individual 
circumstances associated with a complaint and decide whether we think the business did 
something wrong, and if they did how they should put things right.
Mr A also asked questions about other payments hed made prior, including one of the 
payments that Ive referenced above for £10,000. Mr A feels HSBC shouldve done checks 
on that payment as well. However, Mr As complaint is about the two payments of £5,000 he 
made after falling victim to a scam. That larger payment isnt part of the scam and is only 
relevant to this complaint in helping to assess Mr As previous account use and whether the 
payments to the scam are unusual and out of character. So, I wont be addressing or 
considering what checks were completed at the time of any earlier payments. 
But Id like to reassure Mr A that I have carefully considered the points he raised and the 
depth of feeling he has about HSBCs obligations in his case. However, considering all of the 
factors about the payments made to the fraudster including sizes, proximity of dates of the 
payments, the effect on the account balance and previous payments Mr A has made  Im 
not satisfied that these payments were sufficiently unusual or out of character whereby I 
think HSBC shouldve identified that Mr A mayve been the victim of a scam. Therefore, Im 
satisfied that HSBC acted reasonably in processing the payments without intervening first or 
contacting Mr A.
But Ive also considered whether HSBC couldve done more to try and recover the funds, 
once Mr A had made them aware hed been the victim of a scam. 
Could HSBC have recovered more funds for Mr A?
In this case the funds were transferred to an international bank account. International banks 
arent bound by the same rules and regulations as banks within the UK. From what Ive seen 
HSBC contacted the receiving banks the same day Mr A contacted them about the scam 
and asked for the funds to be returned to Mr A. But HSBC is reliant upon the international 
banks choosing to return funds and they cant require or force them to. One of the receiving 
banks did recover and return £5,000 to HSBC, which was credited to Mr As account. But 
HSBC were unable to recover the other payment of £5,000. 
From what Ive seen HSBC have done what they shouldve to try and recover the funds for 
Mr A, and I cant fairly ask them to do any more.
I appreciate that Mr A is very upset about the money he has lost. But based on everything 
Ive seen I cant fairly ask HSBC to refund him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman