DRN-2976053
The complaint
Mr C and Miss S are unhappy with the fact that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
refused to replace damaged sub-flooring after they made a claim under their home 
insurance policy for a water leak.
What happened
Mr C and Miss S made a claim to RSA in May 2019 after they discovered a water leak in 
their utility room. They thought the leak had been going on for a long time.
RSA instructed a disaster recovery firm to strip out and dry the property. To do so, they lifted 
some of the wooden flooring. In July they said the property was dry.
Mr C said within a few days he noticed a hairline crack in the screed and a wall. RSA said 
the screed on the sub-floor wasnt thick enough and that had caused the cracking. It thought 
the crack in the wall had been there for some time.
Mr C instructed an engineer to look at the sub-floor. His engineer thought the cracking had 
been caused by the water leak.
RSA sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. They said the floor screed was cracked due to 
historical shrinkage because it wasnt thick enough and noted that there were cracks in parts 
of the ground floor that hadnt been wet. RSA agreed to settle the rest of the claim in cash.
Mr C and Miss S brought their complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision 
explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. I said it seemed to be agreed that in 
the original part of the property there was a cement screed over a layer of polythene. That in 
turn was laid on a concrete slab over another layer of polythene on bare earth. Mr C and 
Miss Ss surveyor thought this dated from the 1960s although the property was much older. 
Some wooden flooring in a more recent extension was damaged but the screed wasnt 
cracked in that area.
I needed to decide whether RSA treated Mr C and Miss S fairly in saying that the cracking to 
the screed wasnt caused by the water leak or the drying. 
I noted RSAs loss adjuster had said the cracks were historical and due to shrinkage of the 
screed. He thought the screed had shrunk because it was too thin. RSA said the screed was 
between 25mm to 50mm thick when it should have been more than 70mm.
I looked at a report prepared by RSAs building claim inspector following a visit to the 
property on 3 July 2019. The wooden flooring had been taken up by that time. I noted there 
was no reference in the report to the screed being cracked and cracking didnt seem to be 
visible in the photos.
I referred to RSAs disaster recovery firm having told its surveyor it couldnt say whether 
there was any cracking present when the wooden flooring was first lifted. Unfortunately it 
didnt have any photos which would help either way.
I thought it likely that if the cracking had been visible at the time of their visits it would have 
been referred to in one of their reports.
RSA prepared a schedule of repairs on 3 July 2019. The works included Latex levelling 
screed to all types of sub strata, 3mm thickness any area. I doubted that this would have 
been considered adequate if there were cracks of up to 2.5mm wide in the screed at that 
point.
I noted that Mr Cs engineer thought the cracks were too big (upwards of 2.5mm) to be due 
to shrinkage. In his opinion the screed has deflected upwards, showing the cracking is due 
to tension forces within the floor, pushing upwards, due to the slab movement when 
expansion being restricted by the walls and rear floor slab.
I noted that RSAs surveyor said hed removed a section of the screed which was cracked. 
He said there was no cracking in the concrete underneath. He thought this indicated that the 
concrete slab hadnt moved upwards as suggested by Mr Cs engineer. He said there were 
two reasons why the screed might have cracked without any movement in the concrete slab. 
These were historical shrinkage dating from shortly after the screed was laid. Alternatively 
the screed had been affected by the escape of water and/or the drying process. He thought 
it was reasonable to expect that theres been some historic cracking even if only hairline 
cracks because the screed was so thin. But he went on to say:
If there had been pre-existing cracking in the screed, even hairline cracking, this is likely to 
have been exacerbated by the escape of water and subsequent drying process.
Based on the fact that neither the original loss adjuster nor the disaster recovery firm noted 
any cracking in the screed before the property was dried, I thought it was more likely that the 
cracking had been caused by the escape of water and/or the drying as opposed to there 
being historical cracks in the screed. I thought that meant RSA should cover a replacement 
screed as part of the claim.
 
I appreciated that the loss adjuster had noted there were cracks in the screed under part of 
the wooden flooring that hadnt been damaged by the water leak. But as RSAs surveyor and 
Mr Cs engineer both seemed to accept that water could have travelled under the wooden 
flooring, that didnt change my opinion.
The floor was quite uneven. RSAs surveyor advised that any underlying problems with the 
concrete slab would have to be dealt with before a replacement screed was laid. 
I noted the explanation of Mr Cs engineer that unless the concrete had been designed to be 
water-proof, it would absorb a lot of water and the polythene layer would prevent that 
moisture from getting into the ground below the property. He thought that would cause the 
concrete slab to expand and because of the ground below, the solid walls around it and at 
the side the concrete slab of the newer extension which he said was likely to have steel 
reinforcement, the only way it could expand was upwards. He advised that for an effective 
repair the concrete slab would have to be replaced.
In the meantime Mr C and Miss S had a new concrete slab laid at their own expense. So it 
was too late for anyone to re-examine it. But, since I found the evidence of Mr Cs engineer 
persuasive as to the cause of the damage being the expansion and movement of the 
concrete slab, I thought in order to treat Mr C and Miss S fairly RSA should pay the cost of it 
having been replaced.
I was satisfied that, as a result of the failure of RSA to accept the claim for the slab, Mr C and Miss S had been living for about 18 months without proper flooring on the ground floor 
of their home. That would have been cold and, because of the holes in the screed, dusty and 
inconvenient. I was minded to say that RSA should pay them £500 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused by this.
RSA requested some further information and a quotation for the work Mr C had undertaken 
to remedy the damage to the concrete slab. 
Specifically in relation to the concrete slab, Mr C provided a quote for £8,391.60 plus VAT to 
replace the slab and remove the waste materials. He didnt proceed with that quote and said 
instead hed paid £8,500 in cash for a new slab and £240 to remove the rubble. He provided 
a copy of his bank statement showing a withdrawal of £8,500.
He said hed also paid £1,850 to take out and refit the kitchen units and been quoted about 
£1,700 to uplift and renew the flooring.
When we sent the invoice for the replacement slab to RSA, it queried why the slab 
underneath the kitchen had also been replaced. It said there was no evidence that part of 
the slab had been damaged. But I noted that according to RSAs expert:
The kitchen is in the original part of the house and therefore the assumption is made that 
the floor structure will be the same at the lounge.
There was a high spot on the floor in the kitchen which the policyholder did not believe was 
present before the escape of water. This is under the  floor covering and is therefore 
difficult to determine the extent and cause of damage to the concrete floor and to the 
underlying screed.
Based on this I thought it was likely that the whole concrete slab had to be replaced. After 
waiting 18 months or so for their claim to be accepted, I could understand why Mr C and 
Miss S had reached the point where they felt they had to use their own funds to get the work 
done. Since the amount claimed for the new slab and waste removal was broadly in line with 
the quote they obtained and there was evidence of an invoice and a bank withdrawal of 
£8,500, I was satisfied that to treat Mr C and Miss S fairly RSA should pay these costs 
without further delay plus 8% interest from the date of payment.
In my opinion it followed that the floor would also have to be replaced in the kitchen and the 
kitchen units taken out and refitted. Mr C said the amount claimed for the kitchen flooring 
was based on the estimate hed supplied for the office and the fact that the kitchen was 
about half the size of the office. I hadnt seen any evidence to suggest that the amounts 
claimed in respect of this were unreasonable. So I was inclined to say that RSA should pay 
£1,850 for taking out and refitting the kitchen units and £1,700 in respect of the kitchen 
flooring.
In summary RSA responded as follows:
At least three cracks in the screed can be seen in photos taken on 3 July 2019.
It thought the cracks were only shrinkage ones, so screeding over them would have 
been adequate.
According to its expert the screed looked like one that was 20mm plus thick. The 
cracks could have been opened up slightly and filled.
It wouldnt expect the drying company to comment on cracks to the flooring.
If water had gone under any other section of flooring, that would also have had to be 
taken up.No moisture had been found under the floor in the kitchen.
Water couldnt get to the concrete slab because there was a DPM between the screed 
and the slab.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to RSAs records drying equipment was installed on 21 June and removed on 
5 July. That means most of the drying had been done by the time the photos, showing 
cracks in the screed, were taken on 3 July. Whether the cracks in the screed were due to 
historical shrinkage or caused by the escape of water/drying goes to the core of this 
complaint. Since, as mentioned above, neither the original loss adjuster nor the disaster 
recovery firm noted any cracking in the screed before the property was dried, I remain of the 
view that the cracking was most likely caused by the escape of water and/or the drying as 
opposed to there being historical cracks in the screed.
Since Im not persuaded that the cracks were caused by historical shrinkage, RSAs 
surveyor advice (that any underlying problems with the concrete slab would have to be dealt 
with before a replacement screed was laid) seems sensible to me rather than just filling in 
the cracks. I also note that this accords with the recommendation of Mr Cs surveyor.
I agree that the disaster recovery firm wouldnt normally comment on structural matters. But I 
would expect this type of company to be aware of any issues that, if not noted, might later be 
raised as signs of poor work on their part. But, in any event, I was more persuaded by the 
fact that RSAs original loss adjuster didnt note any cracking in the screed before the 
property was dried.
The parties also disagree about whether there was any moisture in the concrete slab. RSAs 
expert found no moisture using a standard moisture meter. Mr Cs engineer said surface 
moisture profiling should only be considered as a guide. He said other tests such as a 
calcium carbide test would be required to establish an accurate moisture content of the 
concrete slab.
RSAs loss adjuster also said water couldnt get into the concrete slab because there was a 
DPM between the screed and the slab. But the DPM comprised a thin polythene membrane 
which RSA said wasnt thick enough to be a proper DPM. This could easily have had a few 
small puncture holes in it through which water could have passed. Its not known how long 
water was leaking and a small leak over a long time could have discharged a large volume 
of water.
The floor within the lounge area was found to be wet by RSAs drying company. Since the 
kitchen was only the other side of a dividing wall, Mr Cs engineer says moisture could have 
spread through the concrete floor structure due to capillary action even though the surface 
was dry. As I said provisionally, I found, and still find, the evidence given by Mr Cs engineer 
to be more persuasive.
This is a finely balanced decision. But Mr Cs engineers evidence on the effect of moisture 
on the concrete slab and the damage to the screed does present a good case for the 
concrete slab having absorbed water from the leak, causing it to expand upwards and crack 
the floor screed. Because of the kitchen being next to the lounge and the fact that the 
kitchen floor was raised up in part, I remain of the view that it was likely that the whole 
concrete slab had to be replaced. So taking everything into account I dont think RSA treated 
Mr C and Miss S fairly in refusing to replace the concrete slab..
Since Ive seen no evidence that the costs claimed for were unreasonable, I think RSA 
should pay the costs referred to in my provisional decision.
Since neither party has queried my proposed award of £500 compensation for trouble and 
upset, I see no reason to change it.
Putting things right
To put things right I think RSA should pay Mr C and Miss S:
£12,290 for a replacement concrete slab and related works;
interest* on the sums that make up the above amount from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement; and
£500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay the amounts 
referred to in the section above headed Putting things right.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc must pay the compensation of £500 within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell it Mr C and Miss S accept my final decision (if they do accept it). If 
it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount specified and from/to the 
dates stated. If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from any interest due to Mr C and Miss S, it 
should tell them how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C and Miss S a certificate 
showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman