DRN-3487113
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the way Sainsburys Bank Plc dealt with her attempts to recover 
money shed paid for a holiday booking that she was unable to take due to the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
What happened
Mrs R booked holiday accommodation for herself and extended family with a provider (L) 
using a travel website operated by a third party (H). She paid an initial deposit, followed 
some time later by the balance, which she paid after discussing with L the possibility the 
holiday might not go ahead due to restrictions imposed during the Covid-19 pandemic that 
limited the mixing of separate households.
As I understand it, L suggested alternative accommodation options to Mrs R, which she 
declined as unsuitable to her needs. 
Unfortunately, although Mrs R paid the balance the Covid restrictions remained in place and 
so she couldnt use the accommodation as originally intended. Mrs R contacted Sainsburys 
Bank to make a claim under the connected lender liability provisions of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). This has the effect that in certain circumstances, a 
credit provider can be liable for a misrepresentation or breach of contract claim that the 
borrower might have against the supplier of goods or services.
Sainsburys Bank took the view that in this case, it had no liability to Mrs R. The bank said 
the involvement of H in the transaction took Mrs Rs claim for breach of contract outside the 
scope of section 75. The bank suggested that any breach of contract in terms of the 
provision of accommodation would be on the part of L, rather than H. Hs responsibility in 
terms of the booking arrangements had been to act as Mrs Rs agent in securing the booking 
and in forwarding payment to L on her behalf. Sainsburys Bank has further said that 
because L had still been willing to provide the accommodation, no breach had occurred.
Mrs R was unhappy with Sainsburys Banks position and complained about its approach to 
her claim. While the bank paid Mrs R £50 compensation for some service shortcomings it 
wasnt willing to change its stance. So Mrs R referred matters to us.
Our investigator noted that in addition to a claim under section 75, Mrs R might have been 
able to submit a claim for her money back using the card schemes chargeback rules. 
However, she didnt think such a claim would have ultimately been successful. L had been 
willing and able to provide the booked holiday home without breaching the Covid restriction, 
which at the material time permitted up to two households to stay together in self-contained 
accommodation. Mrs R had intended for three households to make use of the holiday let, 
which would not have been permitted. But that didnt amount to a breach of contract on Ls 
part. For the same reason, the investigator didnt think Sainsburys Bank had been wrong to 
defend the section 75 claim, whether or not its interpretation of section 75 was correct.
Mrs R didnt accept the investigators assessment. She feels shes being penalised for 
following the law. Mrs R added that she also discussed the pandemic situation with both H 
and Sainsburys Bank, and that they both advised her to let the booking stand, which would 
enable her to seek recovery under section 75.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R was understandably unhappy that the restrictions on household mixing at the time 
affected her holiday plans. Im conscious that in her correspondence shes mentioned certain 
health and care concerns among her party that undoubtedly would have been an additional 
concern.
However, for Mrs R to recover money from Sainsburys Bank under section 75 or 
chargeback, she first needs to be able to demonstrate that responsibility rests with the bank 
because of its actions or the actions of L or H. I find that the circumstances at play here, 
supported by the evidence submitted both by Mrs R and by Sainsburys Bank doesnt 
suggest a claim in breach of contract or for services not provided would have any 
reasonable prospect of success.
As our investigator observed, the restrictions that were put in place didnt prevent L from 
being in a position to provide the accommodation and perform its contractual obligations. 
Theres no question that H fulfilled its obligations  the booking was made and payment 
forwarded to L.
That the holiday didnt go ahead appears to have been a result of Mrs Rs decision that she 
wasnt going to let down other family members whod have been unable to join her. I make 
no criticism of Mrs R in this respect; indeed I can entirely understand why she chose not to 
go ahead. And I also understand why she feels its unfair that shes out of pocket when she 
was trying to keep to the rules. But as unfortunate as that is, noting the legal position I dont 
think it provides a basis on which it would make it fair for one or more of the other parties to 
be out of pocket instead.
In her response to the investigators assessment, Mrs R has said that she contacted both 
Sainsburys Bank and H, and was advised to let the booking stand so that she could make a 
section 75 claim. I havent seen any other evidence that supports that this is what Mrs R was 
told. In her earlier correspondence she said only that H had refused a refund on the basis 
that the contract was with L rather than H and that Hs conditions of cancellation would 
apply. Its possible both Sainsburys Bank and H did make such statements, but in the 
absence of supporting evidence I dont believe it would be reasonable for me to determine 
the complaint in Mrs Ms favour on this basis alone.
My final decision
I do have sympathy given the difficult situation the government restrictions placed Mrs R in. 
Its most unfortunate that this affected Mrs Rs plans in the way it did and I fully understand 
why she feels she shouldnt be out of pocket. But for the reasons Ive set out here, I cant 
properly conclude that it would be fair for Sainsburys Bank to stand that loss.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman