DRN-2348250
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the value of a settlement provided by AXA Insurance UK Plc for a 
claim made under his home insurance policy for lost hearing aids.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
AXA gave Mr H the opportunity to be covered for his loss in line with the policy terms. 
This included an aftercare programme for the replacement hearing aids which Mr H 
rejected. So Im satisfied AXA did what it was required to do under the policy in 
attempting to settle the claim. Ive next considered whether its offer of settlement was 
fair in the circumstances of this complaint, and in line with the limits of its own liability 
under the policy terms. And the relevant terms here state Where we can offer repair 
or replacement through a preferred supplier, but we agree to pay cash or cash 
alternative settlement, then payment will not exceed the amount we would have paid 
the preferred supplier.
Mr H says he wants what AXA would have paid to its contractors audiologists for the 
aftercare programme in addition to the cost of the hearing aids, so the devices will 
work for him. He says hes entitled to this service. AXA says it has offered the same 
amount to Mr H as it would have cost to purchase the replacement hearing aid 
through its preferred supplier. It says the aftercare service is a free service offered by 
the provider when hearing aids are purchased through them. So it says theres no 
additional cost which it can offer to Mr H as part of the cash settlement.
Ive seen no evidence that AXA would have incurred any additional costs on top of 
what its already set out for the replacement hearing aids. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to pay anything further here. I can see that as part of 
the settlement AXA offered to replace Mr Hs hearing aids to his preferred model if he 
paid the difference in cost, and it included the aftercare programme as part of this 
settlement offer too. So overall, I think AXA has assessed Mr Hs claim fairly and in 
line with the terms of his policy.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman