DRN-3281332
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they went into arrears on three of their buy-to-let mortgages
following a covid related three-month payment holiday because Topaz Finance Limited told
them to cancel their direct debit. They say Topaz also failed to inform them of the arrears.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have buy-to-let mortgages with Topaz on three of their properties which are 
part of a larger portfolio they run as professional landlords. They say many of their tenants 
work in the hospitality industry so were particularly affected when the UK went into the first 
covid-19 lockdown in 2020. 
Mr B called Topaz on 17 April 2020 to arrange payment holidays for the three mortgages 
they had with it. Topaz explained that it would arrange for Mr and Mrs Bs portfolio manager 
to call him and that it couldnt guarantee how quickly that would be as they were absolutely 
snowed under with these requests.
The portfolio manager called and left a voicemail for Mr and Mrs B on 24 April 2020 and     
Mr B called back on 27 April 2020. During that call Topaz explained that it would need to 
arrange for the portfolio manager to call him back. Mr B said he just wanted to make sure 
nothing goes out this month The conversation then went as follows:
Topaz: Youve got these direct debits going out on the third and theyre still active? 
Are you unable to pay them for May?
Mr B: We can pay but it leaves the cupboards bare.
Topaz: Do you want me to cancel these direct debits for you just so they dont go out 
and charge £6.50 fees?
Mr B: Yes please  were right on the edge and have seven tenants not paying at 
the moment.
Topaz: Ill let [your portfolio manager] know to call you  she might call you later 
today, but I cant guarantee that. Ill get these three direct debits cancelled for you, so 
they dont go out on the third [of May].
Mr and Mrs Bs portfolio manager called Mr B twice on 1 May 2020, having had to leave a 
voicemail initially  they spoke on the second attempt. Mr B said he was under the 
impression the payment holidays had been organised a couple of weeks ago. The portfolio 
manager said they hadnt and it was her who needed to authorise them. 
They discussed Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and the portfolio manager approved the 
payment holidays but said it wouldnt be set up in time for the May payments, so it would be 
effective from June 2020. Mr B wasnt happy that theyd have to make payments in May and 
didnt agree that hed asked for the direct debit to be cancelled. The portfolio manager then 
went through the payment holiday implications and it was agreed that Mr B would arrange a 
bank transfer to make Mays payments.
Topazs contact notes indicate the next time Mr and Mrs B made contact was on                   
2 July 2020. Mr B called to obtain confirmation of his mortgage account numbers as he was 
trying to register on-line. After that Mr B asked what was happening about the direct debit. 
Topaz told him to call after the payment holiday ends. Mr B asked when that was. Topaz 
said it ended in August so he should call in August to set a new direct debit up. It went on to 
clarify that as long as he did so four working days before he wanted the payment to collect, 
that would be fine.
Mr B called again on 2 July 2020 because he was having difficulty registering for on-line 
services. Topaz identified the issue and told him what to do. He then asked if he could set up 
the direct debit on-line and was told he needed to do that with an advisor. He responded, I 
dont need to do that until August, do I? After checking the details, Topaz told him the next 
payment was due on 3 September 2020 so he should call in mid-August to set up the direct 
debit.
Topaz wrote to Mr and Mrs B on 11 August 2020 confirming when their payment holiday was 
due to end and what their revised payment would be.
Topazs contact notes indicate that Mr B didnt call back again until 11 November 2020, 
having received a letter from Topaz, dated 1 November 2020, informing him of the arrears 
on his mortgage accounts. The letter says a statement was enclosed showing the missed 
payments and resulting fees. Mr B was unhappy that the direct debit had been cancelled as 
he said he did not authorise that. He said the issue had affected his credit file and wanted to 
make a complaint.
Topaz wrote to Mr B with its final response to his complaint on 1 December 2020. It said that 
following Mr and Mrs Bs payment holiday, it didnt receive payments for September or 
October 2020. As a result, the account fell into arrears, arrears fees were charged, and the 
arrears were reported to the credit reference agencies. It said, during the call of                  
27 April 2020, it suggested the direct debit was cancelled to avoid missed payment fees as 
Mr B had said he may not be able to make the payments. 
Topaz also said it was obliged to contact a customer regarding their arrears at the point 
where two monthly payments have been missed. And it allows one calendar month after a 
payment due date before it considers an account in arrears. As a result, it wrote to             
Mr and Mrs B on 1 November 2020 following missed payments due on 3 September and     
3 October 2020.
In its final response letter, Topaz went on to say it could not agree to refund the fees on     
Mr and Mrs Bs accounts or amend their credit files because Mr B was informed no direct 
debits were in place in May 2020. And it sent them a letter in August 2020 informing them 
the next payment was due in September 2020. 
Topaz confirmed that  as of 1 December 2020  Mr and Mrs Bs accounts were up to date 
and a direct debit was currently in place.
Dissatisfied with Topazs response, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to us. They said:
Topaz should have called them sooner following Mr and Mrs Bs initial call of           
17 April 2020.
It was not Mr Bs idea to cancel the direct debit  Topaz said it would be the best way 
to resolve the matter.
During their conversation of 1 May 2020, the portfolio manager was very rude and 
aggressive saying if they didnt pay Topaz would register a default against them. And 
she could have set up a direct debit then.During the same conversation he asked for a manager to call him back. That 
happened a few days later and the manager said the person who recommended the 
cancellation of the direct debit would be spoken to and theyd put some direct debit 
forms in the post. But they were never received by Mr and Mrs B.
Mr and Mrs B failed to pay another lender in September 2020, but it contacted them 
straight away and payment was made. It took 80 days for Topaz to notify them of the 
missed payment.
Topaz charged Mr and Mrs B £80 per account, but it had no costs.
Mr and Mrs B had a bank loan application declined as a result of Topazs credit file 
reporting. This has resulted in them incurring a greater tax liability because they had 
to withdraw funds from their company account.
Our investigator thought Topaz had acted unreasonably. She thought that Topaz should 
have been able to set up the payment holiday from the May 2020 payment. The cancellation 
of the direct debit was disadvantageous to Mr and Mrs B and Mr B said he wanted it set up 
again in May 2020. If Mr and Mrs B werent led down the route of cancelling the direct debit, 
they wouldnt have missed the payments so they should be put back in the position they 
would have been if that didnt happen. In addition, Topaz should pay them £150 for the 
inconvenience caused. But she said shed not seen evidence to show that Topaz caused   
Mr and Mrs B to be declined for a separate loan or that led to an increased personal tax 
liability.
Topaz disagreed. It said, once cancelled, the direct debit couldnt have been set up in May 
for a collection so far in the future. The cancellation of the direct debit was suggested to help 
Mr and Mrs B, but they didnt have to accept it. The portfolio manager didnt agree to set the 
direct debits up  it was left that Mr and Mrs B would do that. Topaz asked for                     
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision of 17 January 2021, I wrote:
To decide Mr and Mrs Bs complaint Ive listened to recordings of all the calls 
available and thought about what each partys understanding would have been from 
those calls. Ive thought about the circumstances at the time  particularly the way 
the covid pandemic affected each party. And Ive thought about whether Topaz acted 
reasonably at each significant stage.
For simplicity Ill deal with each of the complaint points Ive listed above separately 
where practical to do so.
Topaz should have called Mr and Mrs B sooner following their initial call of              
17 April 2020.
Mr B didnt get to speak to the portfolio manager until 1 May 2020, so approximately 
two weeks after making initial contact. And this delay did mean Mr and Mrs B couldnt 
start their payment holiday in May 2020 as theyd wanted.
However, they were told in the 17 April call that Topaz had received many similar 
requests and it would take time to deal with them all. The portfolio manager did call 
Mr B on 24 April 2020. I dont think that was an unreasonable delay in the circumstances, but it was unfortunate that Mr B wasnt able to answer his phone at 
that time. Mr B called back after the weekend on 27 April 2020 and there was 
another delay between when the message was passed to the portfolio manager and 
when she made the call  on 1 May.
I understand that delay impacted Mr and Mrs B and Ive thought about whether its 
reasonable to expect that Topaz handled this situation more efficiently. I think it 
wasnt ideal that Mr B had to go through a separate office for it to pass the message 
on to the portfolio manager. However, I also think Topaz couldnt have predicted the 
covid pandemic or that it would be inundated with requests for payment holidays due 
to the resulting Government/Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance about 
helping borrowers affected. So, Topaz was dealing with substantially more enquiries 
than before the pandemic while operating in a lockdown/homeworking environment. 
I think it would have taken some time to adjust to that and Ive seen nothing to 
suggest it wasnt dealing with enquiries in the order they were made.
I understand the impact on Mr and Mrs B and that they may feel they were entitled to 
a payment holiday under the Government/FCA guidance. But Ive seen that Mr and 
Mrs B were able to make the payments for May 2020, so I dont think the delay in 
setting up the payment holiday has negatively affected their mortgage accounts with 
Topaz.
It was not Mr Bs idea to cancel the direct debit  Topaz said it would be the best way 
to resolve the matter.
Ive carefully listened to the call of 27 April 2020, during which the direct debit was 
cancelled. And Ive outlined the pertinent part of that conversation in the what 
happened section of my decision above. 
As can be seen from that conversation, Topaz offered the cancellation of the direct 
debit as a solution to Mr Bs concern that I can [make Mays payment] but it leaves 
the cupboards bare. Mr B says yes please and justifies that by saying were right 
on the edge and have seven tenants not paying.
I think Mr B was in full agreement, and I dont think Topaz pushed him into making 
that decision. While I do think Topaz should have explained the possible implications 
of cancelling the direct debit, I havent seen that had a negative impact on Mr and 
Mrs B. I say that because they were able to make the payments for May 2020 and I 
dont think the cancellation of the direct debit in May 2020 was the cause of the 
missed payments later in the year, for reasons Ill explain below. I also think, as full-
time landlords with a portfolio of properties, Mr and Mrs B would have understood the 
implications of cancelling the direct debit.
During their conversation of 1 May 2020, the portfolio manager was very rude and 
aggressive saying if Mr and Mrs B didnt pay Topaz would register a default against 
them. And she could have set up a direct debit then.
Again, Ive listened to this call carefully. The portfolio manager asked some questions 
about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances and then agreed the payment holidays but said 
they couldnt start until June 2020. She explained that she needed 10 days to set 
them up. She said Mr B would need to make a payment for May and she would get 
an administrator to call him to take that payment. Mr B wasnt happy because he then 
felt the direct debit had been cancelled unnecessarily. The portfolio manager then 
went through what would happen with the payment holidays. At the end of the call  Mr B said hed make a bank transfer for Mays payments so there was no need for 
anyone to call him back.
I didnt hear that at any point during the call the portfolio manager was rude to Mr B. 
At most I think she became slightly defensive when Mr B showed his frustration 
about the situation. I dont think she behaved inappropriately during the call. And I 
didnt hear her make any threats. While Mr B did dispute that the direct debit was 
cancelled at his request, at no point did he request that a new one was set up.
During the same conversation Mr B asked for a manager to call him back. That 
happened a few days later and the manager said the person who recommended the 
cancellation of the direct debit would be spoken to and theyd put some direct debit 
forms in the post. But they were never received by Mr and Mrs B.
 
The telephone conversation of 1 May 2020 ended with Mr B saying hed make a 
bank transfer for Mays payments and taking note of the bank details. He didnt 
request that a manager call him back and theres no record of any subsequent call in 
Topazs contact notes. I havent seen anything to suggest Mr Bs recollections are 
correct in that regard, though I understand that he may have been dealing with other 
lenders at that time.
Mr and Mrs B failed to pay another lender in September 2020, but it contacted them 
straight away and payment was made. It took 80 days for Topaz to notify them of the 
missed payment.
I understand that the first payment missed by Mr and Mrs B following their payment 
holiday would have been due on 3 September 2020. I think its reasonable that 
Topaz doesnt consider that a loan is in arrears until over one month has passed. 
And that, in this case, would have meant it wouldnt have sent its letter to                
Mr and Mrs B until approximately one month after the missed payment on 3 
September 2020. 
There was no requirement for Topaz to contact Mr and Mrs B about their missed 
payments earlier than it did. And in any event, Topaz wrote to Mr and Mrs B on       
11 August 2020 explaining when they would need to start making payments again. 
This was also discussed in two phone calls with Mr B when he specifically asked 
when he would need to set up his direct debits again. So, I think Topaz acted 
reasonably in making Mr and Mrs B aware of that requirement. And Im not 
persuaded that the arrears were caused as a result of Topaz not writing to              
Mr and Mrs B until November.
Topaz charged Mr and Mrs B £80 per account, but it had no costs.
 
Topaz outlines all the fees that may become chargeable in a document known as a 
tariff of mortgage charges. This confirms that it may charge a fee of £40 to cover 
charges in respect of accounts where a borrower falls behind on their payments. I 
agree where Mr and Mrs B say it only wrote to them once about the arrears. But I 
dont think that necessarily is the only cost involved in the administration of an 
account in arrears. I think, as it is published in its tariff of mortgage charges, its 
reasonable for Topaz to charge Mr and Mrs B where their account was in arrears. 
And I think it applied the fees correctly in this case.
Mr and Mrs B had a bank loan application declined as a result of Topazs credit file 
reporting. This has resulted in them incurring a greater tax liability because they had 
to withdraw funds from their company account.As Ive said above, I havent found that Topaz should have reinstated Mr and Mrs Bs 
direct debit before their payment holiday. Ive also listened to the two calls Mr B had 
with Topaz in July 2020. During those calls Mr B didnt ask for the direct debit to be 
set up  instead he appeared content that he didnt have to do that until mid-August  
in time for 3 September 2020. So, I havent seen that Topaz made it difficult to set up 
a new direct debit at any time  it merely gave Mr B the information he needed about 
that.
I understand  from what Mr and Mrs B have told us  that they were busy helping 
family members whod contracted covid 19 and those who had to isolate around the 
time their first payment became due. While I do accept that was a challenging time 
for Mr and Mrs B, they were responsible for ensuring their mortgage payments to 
Topaz were made on time.
Mr and Mrs B were in arrears on their mortgage payments and I dont think Topaz 
caused that. Topaz was required to report the status of their accounts accurately to 
the credit reference agencies. So, I dont think Topaz were the cause of the failed 
application or the subsequent implications for Mr and Mrs B.
Topaz accepted my decision. However, Mr and Mrs B did not. They said:
A direct debit can be set up at any time and funds dont have to be drawn at any 
particular point. So, Topaz could have set up the direct debit in May. And they didnt 
post any direct debit forms.
They dont think its reasonable for Topaz not to have informed them of their missed 
payment for nearly two and a half months. This is particularly damaging because any 
prospective lender in the future will assume the payments were missed deliberately 
as the consumer would have been chased for payment before the second one was 
missed. And the mortgage offer states as soon as the loan is past the end of the 
month, it is in arrears. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Bs comments, but they dont lead me to change my 
decision about their complaint. Ill explain why.
I understand that Mr and Mrs B think Topaz could have set up the new direct debit in       
May 2020. However, having listened to the call recordings of the time, I didnt hear Mr B ask 
Topaz to do that. I also didnt hear him agree with Topaz that it would send him direct debit 
forms. So, I dont think Topaz unfairly refused to set up a direct debt at that time or failed to 
fulfil an agreement to send him direct debit forms.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs B feel strongly about the effect their missed payments have on 
their credit worthiness as dictated by their credit files. So, I understand that they think Topaz 
should have contacted them sooner about their missed payments. But irrespective of when 
Topaz considered the account to be in arrears, it wasnt obliged to chase payment. It wasnt 
Topazs responsibility to ensure Mr and Mrs B made their mortgage payments  that was   
Mr and Mrs Bs responsibility. 
As Ive already said, Ive seen that Topaz wrote to Mr and Mrs B in August 2020 about 
starting their repayments again in September 2020. So, I think Topaz did make them aware 
of the need to do so. And in a telephone conversation in July 2020 Mr B was told he should 
call in mid-August to set the direct debit up for Septembers payment. So, I think it did 
enough to make him aware he needed to make payments and when that needed to be, 
following his payment holiday. On balance, I dont think the timing of Topazs letter about 
arrears caused Mr and Mrs B to miss those payments.Having reviewed my provisional decision and carefully considered Mr and Mrs Bs 
comments, I dont think Topaz acted unreasonably in the circumstances outlined above.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about Topaz Finance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 February 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman