DRN-4389394
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way that Clear Score Technology Limited (Clear Score) handled 
and displayed his credit information.
Mr L wants Clear Score to pay more compensation than its offered so far.
What happened
Mr L complained to Clear Score after his name and address didnt show correctly on his 
account. Mr L says Clear Score took a year to correct the situation which involved a great 
deal of his time and the expense of legal experts.
Clear Score investigated and established there were issues because of the format of Mr Ls 
name. Clear Score says it carried out a fix to help display Mr Ls name correctly. But as part 
of setting up a new account for Mr L, Clear Score entered his previous address. This meant 
Mr Ls score went down before coming back up again once Clear Score correctly updated 
his address. Clear Score offered Mr L £50 to apologise for the mistake when creating his 
new account.
Our investigator thought that Clear Score had done and offered enough to put things right for 
Mr L. He was satisfied that Clear Score carried out a fix to ensure Mr Ls name would display 
correctly. Our investigator thought Clear Scores offer of £50 was a fair reflection of the upset 
caused when it created Mr Ls new account with the wrong address.
Mr L disagreed with the investigation outcome. He said the investigator has focussed on the 
way that lenders view his information rather than the time wasted dealing with the issue. 
I issued a provisional decision on 11 September 2023 in which I said:
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties. The rules 
that govern the Financial Ombudsman Service allow me to do so. But this doesnt 
mean Ive not considered everything that has been provided to us.
Clear Score isnt a credit reference agency. Instead, it obtains credit file information 
from one of the credit reference agencies that I will refer to as E. Mr L raised 
separate complaints about E which I am aware of.
It seems to me that many of the problems Mr L faced was with the way that E 
recorded his name. This was not down to Clear Score and Mr L has been 
compensated by E for the time spent trying to resolve the problem. So, my decision 
focusses on what, if anything, Clear Score has done wrong and whether it should pay 
more compensation than has so far been offered.
Clear Score explained to Mr L that initially it wasnt possible to display his full name 
due to the format of his name. I appreciate this was inconvenient but I dont find that 
it was due to a mistake that Clear Score made. Im satisfied that Clear Score 
responded fairly to Mr Ls concerns when it contacted E and introduced a fix which 
allowed his full name to be used.
As our investigator explained  lenders dont use Clear Score to view Mr Ls credit 
report  this is done through the main three credit reference agencies. This means 
that any problems with Mr Ls Clear Score report shouldnt have impacted any 
lending decisions. As Im satisfied that Clear Score responded fairly to Mr Ls 
concerns, I dont require it to compensate Mr L for the time taken to deal with this 
aspect of his complaint.
However, I do think that Clear Score should pay Mr L more than £50 for the mistake 
it agrees it made when setting up his new account in February 2023 and I will explain 
why.
Ive read the contact history between Mr L and Clear Score. I can see that after 
introducing the fix in early 2023, Clear Score recommended that Mr L delete his 
existing account and set up a new one. Clear Score reassured Mr L that his existing 
credit score should appear once the account was set up and all of his credit 
information was pulled across from E.
However, once Mr Ls new Clear Score account was set up, his credit score had 
dropped significantly and he was missing credit information. Im satisfied that Clear 
Score tried to help him but I also appreciate Mr Ls frustration with the situation. Clear 
Score suggested things he could try with E but Mr L was understandably reluctant to 
spend even more time sorting things out.
Over the course of four months, Mr L was engaged in several emails with Clear 
Score and E until in May 2023, Clear Score realised that the problem lay with the fact 
it had set up the new account using Mr Ls previous address.
Although I dont find that Clear Scores mistake impacted Mr Ls ability to secure 
further credit, I do think it led to additional concern and time spent on the part of Mr L 
trying to get to the bottom of the problem. This was off the back of several months of 
concern about his credit file. So, Im not persuaded that £50 fairly reflects the upset 
and inconvenience to Mr L.
I consider an award of £150 is more appropriate. It sits in the middle range of a 
award we might make where a mistake has taken a reasonable effort to resolve. Our 
approach to awards like this can be found on our website.
When deciding the amount, Ive taken account of the fact that Clear Score tried to 
help Mr L and then apologised for its mistake. I also note Clear Scores comments 
that Mr L had the option to choose his current address  although I appreciate this 
may not have been evident to him. So, overall Im satisfied that £150 compensation 
is a fair amount to put things right for Mr L.
Further submissions
Mr L has not responded to my provisional decision. Clear Score has confirmed that it 
accepts my provisional decision and has reached out to Mr L to ask for his payment details. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr L has not responded and as Clear Score accepts my provisional decision, I find it 
reasonable to make my final decision along the same lines as my provisional decision.
Putting things right
If Clear Score has not already done so, it should pay Mr L £150 compensation. l
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Clear Score Technology Limited to 
put things right in line with the above directions.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman