DRN-2332174
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) acted unfairly and unreasonably 
by refusing to let him remortgage his buy to let mortgage portfolio or extend the mortgage 
terms for a reasonable period of time.
What happened
Mr A had several buy to let properties and his residential property mortgaged with TMW as a 
portfolio on an interest only basis for a 15 year term from 2004, taken out through a broker. 
In 2019, the mortgage was coming to an end and TMW refused to extend the mortgage term 
as it no longer offered portfolio accounts. Mr A then explored remortgaging but said due to 
changes in the mortgage rules, this wasnt possible. 
Mr A said he then realised that there were issues with his residential property as it was 
meant to be only lived in by those employed within agriculture or forestry, which reduced its 
value, and there were concerns about other things, such as access and utilities. Mr A said 
the valuation carried out in 2004 on TMWs behalf noted the restriction but didnt reduce the 
value and it would take time to sort the issue out. He added that one of the buy to let 
properties might also have an issue about being sited on old mining ground. 
Mr A complained to TMW as he felt he couldnt sell his home for its true worth, thought one 
buy to let property had been over-valued, and wasnt happy with the options available to him. 
TMW pointed out that the valuations were carried out by independent qualified professional 
valuers, who pointed out the agricultural restriction for the residential properties (and other 
issues)  the key point was that the properties had been suitable for a mortgage and that 
was the purpose of the valuation. TMW said that it would only extend the residential 
mortgage term by six months to February 2020, but no longer offered lending for residential 
properties. For the buy to let properties, TMW said that Mr A could apply to remortgage 
through a broker for each property and extended the mortgage term for these to February 
2020.
Mr A complained to us. The investigators view was that the valuations were only for TMWs 
benefit, not Mr As, and the residential one warned about the agricultural restriction. It was 
enough that the properties were suitable for a mortgage and met TMWs lending policies at 
the time, and TMW was able to rely on the view of a professional valuer. The investigator 
said TMW had given Mr A time to deal with his mortgage ending, but as it no longer offered 
portfolio accounts, it was fair and reasonable to refuse to extend the term for the portfolio 
and refuse to wait ten years in the hope property prices rose, particularly in the absence of a 
concrete repayment plan. He pointed out remortgage applications could be made for each 
buy to let property, and that TMW was able to refuse to consider the residential property as it 
no longer offered such lending.
Mr A disagreed. He said his complaint had been ignored and he didnt think it was fair that 
the 2004 valuation for his residential mortgage was in his view incorrect, as he relied upon it. 
Mr A was concerned that he would lose his home. The investigator explained that TMW was 
able to rely on the professional valuations and didnt change his view. Mr A still felt his 
mortgage should be extended by ten years and the situation wasnt fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to focus on the core of Mr As complaint, which is about the position he finds 
himself now the mortgage term ended in February 2020 and how he got there. The first point 
to note is that for the buy to let properties, these are commercial transactions and not subject 
to the same considerations as residential properties. And Mr A had a broker advising him 
about the mortgage, and theres no suggestion TMW didnt give all the necessary 
information about the products. Mr A took out a mortgage and promised to repay it in full by 
2019; its not TMWs fault Mr A hasnt done so.
The most Mr A can say about the original mortgages is to highlight concerns about his 
residential property and one buy to let property and the valuation undertaken in 2004. But 
this overlooks the fact that only basic mortgage valuations were undertaken, which were only 
for the benefit of TMW. This should have been explained by the broker. No duty was owed to 
Mr A to tell him about problems with his properties, and I can see that the agricultural 
restriction and its impact was set out in the residential valuation in any event. The purpose of 
the valuations was for the professional valuers to advise TMW as to whether the properties 
were suitable for a mortgage and met the relevant lending policies in place at the time. I 
cant say Mr As concerns raised in 2019 are valid  TMW didnt act unfairly or unreasonably 
in relying on the valuations which were not for his benefit and shouldnt have been relied 
upon by him.
And the concerns from 2004 arent relevant to Mr As wish to extend the mortgage term. 
First, once the mortgage term ends (and I understand that it has now), it cant be extended. 
And more critically, lenders are able to use their commercial judgment to set lending policies 
 TMW has decided to stop offering portfolio mortgages or lending for residential properties. 
This service wouldnt interfere with this as long as all affected consumers are being treated 
fairly and reasonably. In Mr As case, he was warned the mortgage was coming to an end, 
given an extra six months, and told for the buy to let properties, he could apply for a new 
mortgage on an individual property basis. Options are available to him for the residential 
property elsewhere, but Mr A may need to seek advice. It isnt unfair or unreasonable for a 
lender to tell a customer that it has lending policies and applications for new lending (and as 
the mortgage term has ended, it is new lending) must meet those policies.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
8 December 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman