DRN-3101733
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC took the decision to close his accounts.
What happened
Mr A held several accounts with Barclays, including a fixed rate ISA account. On 13 January 
2021, Barclays wrote to Mr A and advised that it had taken the decision to close his 
accounts and that this decision would be implemented on 14 March 2021. Mr A wasnt 
happy about this, and he felt that he was being deprived of the interest that would accrue in 
the balance of his ISA account if it could remain open, so he raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mr As complaint, but they noted that the terms of their Retail Customer 
Agreement entitled them to make the decision to close Mr As accounts, so they didnt 
uphold that aspect of Mr As complaint. 
However, Barclays did acknowledge that Mr A had been given conflicting information from 
them regarding the closure of the ISA account, and that Mr A had had to contact Barclays on 
several occasions because of this. Barclays therefore apologised to Mr A for any 
inconvenience he incurred and offered to make a payment of £100 compensation to him.
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Barclays were within their 
rights to choose to close Mr As accounts, and they felt that the £100 that Barclays had 
offered to Mr A for the service aspect of his complaint already represented a fair and 
reasonable resolution to what had happened. So, they also didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been upsetting for Mr A to have been informed by 
Barclays that they intended to close his accounts.
However, just as a customer is free to choose whom they do business with, its also for a 
business to decide whether it will provide services, or continue to provide services, to a 
customer, and its standard practice for the terms and conditions of a business to allow that 
business to terminate the ongoing business relationship, if it chooses to do so.
What this service would expect would be that, if a business is making the decision to close a 
customers accounts, it gives that customer fair notice of its intention to do so, so that the 
customer has the opportunity to make alternative arrangements before the account closures 
come into effect. Additionally, it would also be expected that the business would highlight to 
the customer the specific clause of its terms and conditions that permit the business to close 
the accounts in the manner that they are.
Barclays appear to have met the expectations of this service here. The letter that they sent 
to Mr A dated 13 January 2021 explained that the accounts would be closed effective 14 
March 2021. This provided a notice period of 60-days, and Im satisfied that this gave Mr A a 
reasonable amount of time to make alternative arrangements, including in regard to the 
balance of his ISA account with Barclays. 
Furthermore, the letter sent by Barclays to Mr A referred Mr A to the specific clause of 
Barclays Retail Customer Agreement that enabled Barclays to make the decision to close 
Mr As accounts that they did. As such, I find it very difficult to conclude that Barclays have 
acted unfairly towards Mr A in how they managed the decision to close his accounts here, 
and it follows that I wont be upholding this aspect of Mr As complaint.
Im aware that Mr A is unhappy with how Barclays managed the ongoing dialogue he held 
with them following him being informed that his accounts would be closed. Barclays have 
acknowledged that Mr A was given conflicting information about how the closure of his ISA 
account would be managed, and theyve apologised to Mr A for this and made an offer of 
£100 compensation to him.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an offer considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one person not being considered as being so by someone else. However, the 
£100 that Barclays have offered here does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its 
commensurate with what this service would expect, given the circumstances.
Additionally, while I can appreciate that Mr A feels that he has had to spend a considerable 
amount of time dealing with this matter such that further compensation is warranted, I find it 
difficult to reach a similar conclusion to Mr A here. And one of the reasons I say this is 
because much of the time spent by Mr A was done appealing a decision which, as 
previously explained, Im satisfied both that Barclays were entitled to make and that was 
reasonably and fairly communicated to Mr A by Barclays in the first instance. 
Finally, Im also aware that Mr A feels that Barclays should compensate him for the loss of 
interest as a result of the closure of his ISA account. However, given that Im satisfied that 
Barclays were entitled to close all of Mr As accounts, including the ISA account, I dont feel 
that compensation such as Mr A would like here is warranted. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr A was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time. I trust 
that Mr A will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman