DRN-4232789
The complaint
Mr A complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) handled the repair of his 
car poorly, following a claim he made for accident damage under his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2022 Mr A was involved in a collision when driving his car. He made a claim to 
Admiral. It then arranged for his car to be collected and repaired. Mr A says there was a 
delay in a courtesy car being provided. When it was it was, it was very small and unsuitable 
for his needs. He says it took until the end of September to complete the repairs. This was 
due to many delays on the part of the repairer Admiral appointed. 
Mr A says he had to contact and visit the repairer numerous times. He was given inaccurate 
information as to the status of the repairs. He was told the wrong parts were ordered causing 
delays. Mr A says there are numerous issues with the repairs, including defects with the 
paint and bodywork. He also says an alloy wheel wasnt repaired. Mr A says the problems 
experienced with the repairs, and the time taken have caused him distress.
In its final complaint response Admiral says its repairer didnt have a courtesy car available. 
It says it provided an alternative and paid £50 compensation for the five-day delay in 
arranging this. It says the availability of parts has been a significant issue in the industry. 
This has meant components being on back order for a considerable period of time. 
Admiral says the supplier estimates for when parts would arrive, wasnt always accurate. It 
says this wasnt always well communicated to Mr A, and it paid him compensation for this. 
Admiral says an independent assessor was instructed to inspect the repair works. This was 
to take place at his home address. It says the assessor hasnt had a response from Mr A. 
This meant it hasnt considered his concerns about the repair quality further. Admiral says it 
wrote to Mr A in December 2022 to ask if he still wanted an inspection. It says it hasnt 
received a response. 
Mr A wasnt satisfied with Admirals response and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says communication from Admirals garage was 
poor. But Admiral had apologised and paid compensation, which he thought was fair. He 
says delays were caused by parts on back order, which was outside of Admirals control. 
Our investigator says a courtesy car provided was in line with its policy terms. 
Mr A didnt think this was fair. He says Admirals repairer ordered incorrect parts, which 
added to the delays. He says he was without his, much larger, car for a long period, which 
was very inconvenient. He spent a lot of time contacting the repairer and Admiral and had to 
take time out of his work to do this. He doesnt accept the compensation paid is fair. 
Because of this he asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I understand hes had a poor 
experience with this claim and Im sorry to disappoint him. But I will explain why I think my 
decision is fair. 
Mr As car was damaged on 5 June 2022. I can see from the claim records it was collected 
promptly. However, the repairing garage had no courtesy car it could provide. Mr As policy 
terms, under the damage repair section, state the following,:
Our approved repairers, or another company instructed by [Admiral] will:
arrange collection and re-delivery of your vehicle 
give you a courtesy car while your vehicle is being repaired.
And:
The courtesy car is not intended to be a like for like replacement for your vehicle. It will 
typically be a small hatchback.
A courtesy car wasnt available from the repairer. In place of this Admiral arranged for a car 
to be provided from a hire company. This was a small hatchback. I note Mr As comments 
that this was much smaller than his car. He says it wasnt comfortable given his height and 
wasnt suitable for longer journeys. Although I acknowledge his comments, there is no 
requirement for Admiral to provide a larger car under Mr As policy terms. 
The claim records show Admiral did try to assist Mr A. It agreed to provide a different car 
that was slightly larger. Albeit this was still smaller than Mr As car. 
In the circumstances I think Admiral behaved reasonably. It paid £50 for the five days Mr A 
was without a courtesy car, after his car was collected. I think this was fair. We usually ask 
an insurer to pay £10 per day to compensate for the loss of use of a vehicle, when this is the 
insurers fault. So, I think it treated Mr A fairly here. 
Ive read the claim records in detail. It took from 5 June 2022 until 30 September to repair Mr 
As car. So around four months. There are a number of references to parts being on back 
order. The first reference is on 1 August. I can see varying dates were given to Mr A for 
when it was estimated these would arrive. The records show that Admiral considered other 
options to obtain parts more quickly, including the use of used parts. I think this was 
reasonable. But it does appear that the main delay issue was the lack of availability of the 
spare parts needed to complete the repair.  
I acknowledge Mr As comments that Admirals repairer told him it had ordered the wrong 
parts. This was in relation to the front grill/bumper. He says this happened several times. 
When the correct parts were received, it was then found that the surrounding trim shouldve 
been ordered and hadnt. This caused further delays. 
I cant find reference in the claim notes that shows the repairer ordered the wrong parts. A 
record dated 12 September 2022 says the wrong, Grille, grille badge, Adas unit & bracket 
have been supplied. This doesnt say incorrect parts were ordered, but that the wrong parts 
were supplied. In its submissions to our service Admiral has referred to a record from 12 September that it says references an incorrect part that was ordered. However, this isnt 
what the records show. 
I dont dispute Mr As comments about what the repairing garage told him. Its possible parts 
were incorrectly ordered. However, I can also see that there were other parts on back order 
that were needed to complete the repairs. 
Mr A says he visited the repairing garage 16 times. I note his comments that he is very 
attached to his car. However, I dont think Admiral is responsible for paying the costs he has 
claimed for these trips. The business acknowledges communication wasnt always of a good 
standard. This is supported to some extent by the claim records. But I cant see there was a 
requirement for Mr A to travel to the garage, this often. This was his choice. 
In his correspondence to our service Mr A says Admiral should refund the insurance 
premiums he paid whilst his car was off the road. Ive looked at his policy terms to see what 
is expected in these circumstances. The policy terms say:
If a claim has been made during the period of insurance, you must pay the full premium and 
no refund will be given. 
As Mr A made a claim he is required to pay his annual premium in full. So, I dont agree that 
Admiral should provide a refund.  
Ive thought about Mr As comments that he made finance payments on his car, whilst it was 
being repaired. I dont think Admiral is responsible for Mr As finance payments. I do think he 
is due compensation for the overall claim handling experience he had. But this doesnt 
include a refund of his car finance payments. This was always Mr As responsibility to pay.  
Similarly, I dont agree that Admiral is responsible to pay Mr A an amount to cover the 
depreciation in value of his car. Admirals role was to arrange the repair of his car following 
his accident. I think some compensation is appropriate for the poor claims experience. But 
Admiral isnt responsible for depreciation in the value of Mr As car over the repair period. 
Mr A says the garage failed to carry out a repair to one of his alloy wheels. He says he 
arranged his own repair at a cost of £200. I cant see that he referred this point to Admiral in 
his complaint. He should contact the business and ask it to consider this cost as part of his 
claim. If hes not satisfied with its response he can of course submit a complaint. But under 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) DISP rules the complaint must first be made to the 
business. So, I cant consider this point here.  
Mr A says he highlighted a number of paint and body work issues when he visited his car at 
the main dealer. This was towards the end of September 2022. I understand the main dealer 
was tasked with re-gassing the air conditioning in Mr As car as part of the repairs. It was in 
response to Mr As concerns that Admiral arranged for an independent assessor to inspect 
the repairs. The claim records show the assessor tried to contact Mr A on 19 and 25 October 
without success. The records also show Admiral wrote to Mr A to ask if he still wanted the 
repairs to be inspected. I cant see that he responded. 
If Mr A remains concerned about the quality of the repairs Admiral arranged  he should 
contact it to arrange for an inspection. I think its reasonable that the business offered to 
inspect his car. But unless Mr A agrees for this to happen, it cant reasonably consider the 
matter further. 
Having considered all of this I think Mr A has experienced delays, and poor communication 
over the four-month period his car was with Admirals repairer. This has caused him distress and inconvenience when emailing and phoning to chase progress. In these circumstances I 
think its fair that Admiral pays Mr A compensation. 
I didnt think it was clear from the records how much compensation Admiral had paid. I 
asked it to clarify this point. Ive now seen a screen print from Admirals claim system that 
shows a total of £450 has been paid to Mr A. £50 of which relates to the loss of use 
payment, for the five-day delay in providing a courtesy car. If Mr A hasnt received all of this 
amount, or hasnt banked a cheque payment, he should raise this with Admiral, so this 
amount can be paid in full. But based on this evidence and these circumstances, I think £400 
compensation and £50 loss of use payment, is fair. 
In summary, I dont think Admiral treated Mr A fairly given the poor communication and level 
of delay he experienced. But it has paid a fair amount in compensation to acknowledge 
these points. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman