DRN-3279052
The complaint
Mr T says J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to him. He has 
requested that the interest and late payment charges he paid on the two accounts he had 
be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about two catalogue shopping accounts provided by J D Williams to Mr T. 
Account A was opened in November 2015 with Mr T being given an initial credit limit of 
£150. This limit was increased 6 times until it reached £2300 in February 2019. Account B 
was opened in April 2018 Mr T was given an initial credit limit of £150. This limit was 
increased 8 times until it reached £2300 in September 2020. 
Mr T says hes unhappy that J D Williams continued to increase his credit limit on each 
account when he was only making minimum payments each month and was in financial 
difficulties.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ts complaint and thought that J D Williams ought to 
have realised that Mr T wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit on 
either account by the time it offered Mr T the increased credit limit on Account B on 29 
August 2018. J D Williams has disagreed with what they said, saying that it had no 
reason to think that Mr T was experiencing financial difficulties. The complaint has 
therefore been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website.
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Our adjudicator set out in some detail why she thought J D Williams shouldnt have 
provided Mr T with any additional credit from August 2018 onwards. J D Williams didnt 
agree with what our adjudicator said. It said the credit limits it set were affordable for Mr T 
and there were no periods of consecutive or sustained missed payments  with the 
exception of a single late payment for one account. It also it didnt agree that Mr T had a 
history of being in financial difficulty and it did not regard the default on Mr Ts credit file as 
being an indication of such difficulties.   
Nonetheless Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history with 
Mr T, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which J D Williams should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If so, that 
would mean J D Williams should have realised that it shouldnt have further increased 
Mr Ts credit limits.
Mr T says that J D Williams should not have increased his credit limits, given that he 
made only minimum payments on his accounts each month. He has also told us that he 
has been in financial difficulties for several years and has a poor credit rating, with a 
history of missed payments and money being owed to other creditors, including payday 
lending. He also told us he had incurred debt from gambling. 
Unfortunately, Mr T hasnt been able to provide us with copies of his bank statements 
covering the period he had these account. But given the particular circumstances of 
Mr Ts case, based on the information Mr T and J D Williams has given, I nevertheless 
think that a point was reached by 29 August  2018, when J D Williams increased Mr Ts 
total credit limit to £2,400 (not £3100 as our adjudicator said), which ought to have 
prompted J D Williams to realise further credit as likely to be unaffordable or otherwise 
harmful to Mr T. I say this because proportionate affordability checks would have likely 
shown J D Williams that Mr T was by that time having difficulty managing his money. Ive 
seen that during the time he had these accounts and up to this point, Mr T had been 
increasingly making only minimum or near-minimum payments. From the little information 
we have about his other existing commitments, it appears he was also showing some 
signs of payment difficulty as well as a recent increase in the amount of credit 
commitments he had. Further, J D Williams own checks appear to indicate that in the 
months leading up to this increase there was a relative amount of volatility in Mr Ts 
overall indebtedness with other creditors, suggesting he was relying on short term loans. 
Going forwards from 29 August 2018, I can also see the balance owed on Account A had 
reached more than £500. And whilst the balance owed on Account B had reached just 
over £200, I note that it steadily increased in the following six months to over  £1000, 
which I think demonstrates that the further credit J D Williams had given Mr T was 
unaffordable. That means he was likely unable to reduce the increasing debt on these accounts whilst at the same time having to meet his daily living expenses and other credit 
commitments. 
So I think that proportionate checks would likely have shown J D Williams that Mr T was 
in difficulty with managing his two accounts alongside his other debts and day-to-day 
living expenses. I also think there was a significant risk that further increases to his credit 
limits could have led to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably, such that he had no 
funds available to meet his debts and regular outgoings. 
It follows that I think that Mr T lost out because J D Williams provided him with further credit 
from August 2018 onwards. In my view, J D Williams actions unfairly prolonged Mr Ts 
indebtedness by allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period of 
time and the interest being added would only have the effect of putting him into further debt. 
It follows that J D Williams should put things right.
Putting things right  what J D Williams needs to do
Rework Mr Ts account to ensure that from 29 August 2018 onwards 
interest is only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £2100 
(Account A £1400 and Account B £700), including any buy now pay later 
interest, (being the credit limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact 
that no further credit limit increases should have been provided. All late 
payment and over limit fees should also be removed; and
If an outstanding balance remains on the account once these adjustments 
have been made J D Williams should contact Mr T to arrange an 
affordable repayment plan for these accounts. Once Mr T has repaid the 
outstanding balance, it should remove any adverse information recorded 
on Mr Ts credit file from 29 August 2018 onwards for each account. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no 
longer being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mr T, along with 8% simple interest per year 
on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the 
date of settlement. J D Williams should also remove any adverse 
information from Mr Ts credit file from 29 August 2018 onwards.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest. J D 
Williams must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mr Ts complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman