DRN-2356878
The complaint
Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mrs L took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1992. Mrs L paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
I sent Mrs L and Halifax a provisional decision on 3 November 2020, to explain why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
This sale was nearly three decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So I think its understandable that neither side still have all the original records from the sale. 
Indeed, under data protection rules, Halifax were required to dispose of Mrs Ls data rather 
than hold onto it for too long. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have 
happened based on the limited information I have.
Mrs L was offered a discount rate if she took out PPI, but that doesnt mean she was forced 
into having it  she was free to take a different rate or a different product or go to a different 
lender entirely. It looks like her mortgage offer made it clear that the PPI was only required 
for the rate. So I cant see that Halifax misled her there.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mrs L into having PPI. 
And I have no evidence which shows thats what it did here. Further, Ive not seen any wider 
problems with Halifaxs sales process from the time, nor anything which shows that it put 
Mrs L under any unfair pressure here. And this particular sale was too long ago for me to 
reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce documents from the time to defend itself 
now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax did something wrong. 
I think its more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales process, gave Mrs L a choice, 
and that she chose PPI at the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing 
so after such a long time.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs L, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if it did recommend the policy  so to be fair to Mrs L, Ive assumed it did. 
That means Halifax had to check that the PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mrs L was 
eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Mrs L recalled getting an exceptionally high rate of sick pay, and I dont doubt shes given us 
her best recollections. But given her employment circumstances, including the level of her 
role, her salary, and her short length of service, I think its most likely that shes mistaken 
about just how generous her sick pay was. Of course, if Mrs L can evidence her sick pay at 
the time, then Im happy to reconsider this point. In any case, the PPI wouldve paid out on 
top of Mrs Ls work benefits and covered her for a substantial period. And this mortgage was 
a very significant, long-term commitment  there was no guarantee that Mrs L would have 
the same benefits or even the same job in the many years to come. While she may have felt 
secure in her job, redundancies can and do happen, even in jobs that feel secure  and 
especially in cases where someone had only started fairly recently. So it seems sensible that 
she insured herself.
I also understand that Mrs Ls family may have been happy to help, but there was always the 
chance theyd be unable to help when needed. And this policy meant Mrs L wouldnt have to 
ask her family to pay her mortgage for her. Further, the mortgage was in Mrs Ls name  not 
anyone elses  so I dont think it wouldve been suitable if Halifax had recommended that 
she rely on other people to pay it. Ultimately, its worth bearing in mind that if Mrs L fell 
behind on her mortgage, she couldve lost her home. So the PPI couldve really been useful 
for her in protecting her home and providing some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mrs L about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. But as I explained above, Mrs L wasnt affected by any of the main things the 
policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case something went wrong. 
The policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI 
was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs L could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
Mrs L mentioned that many other PPI policies were mis-sold, and I understand why shes 
raised this. But different policies worked in different ways, were suitable in different 
circumstances, were sold using different methods at different times, and so on. So even 
though some policies were mis-sold, others were not. Thats why we look at each case on its 
own merits. Ive explained above why I have not found that this particular policy was mis-
sold. 
Lastly, I understand Mrs L is unhappy with the way that Halifax handled her complaint. Im 
afraid I cannot consider this, as I can only decide complaints about regulated activities  for 
example, the selling of insurance. But handling complaints is not a regulated activity in and 
of itself. So while Im sorry to hear that Mrs L found the complaints process stressful, I cant 
consider that point. Instead, Ive focused my decision on the sale of her PPI. 
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
17 November 2020. But neither Mrs L nor Halifax sent me anything new to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think the policy was mis-sold.My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint in this case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman