DRN-4406179
The complaint
Miss B complains that the car Hyundai Capital UK Limited (Hyundai Capital) supplied to 
her under a conditional sale agreement was not of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Hyundai Capital supplied Miss B via a car dealership with a used car. Within a few days of 
receiving the car Miss B complained to the car dealership about what she saw as faults with 
the car including a key fob error.
Miss B gave the car dealership a chance to fix the car on behalf of Hyundai Capital. But after 
this attempted repair the key fob error continued. 
The relevant consumer law makes it a term of the contract between Miss B and Hyundai 
Capital  that the car should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. Miss B 
considered that the car was not working correctly due to faults that made the car not of 
satisfactory quality and that therefore there had been a breach of contract. Dissatisfied, Miss 
B complained to Hyundai Capital.
Hyundai Capital is, amongst other things, the supplier of the car. Therefore, as Ive 
mentioned above, it is responsible if its car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied, 
Hyundai Capital accepted this premise. However, it did not agree that there was anything for 
it to put right in this instance. Specifically, Hyundai Capitals initial stance was that its car 
was of satisfactory quality when supplied, and therefore it declined to uphold Miss Bs 
complaint.
Miss B remained dissatisfied, she had a car that was not working properly and which by this 
point, she no longer wanted. Further, her stance remained that there had been a breach of 
contract and Hyundai Capital was responsible for it. But Miss B had not got the remedy she 
thought she was entitled to from Hyundai Capital. Therefore, Miss B complained to our 
service. To put things right, at this point, Miss B wanted Hyundai Capital to take back its car 
and refund all the monthly payments shed made towards her agreement with it.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Bs complaint. Our investigator came to the view 
that the car was likely not of satisfactory quality when supplied and this was a breach of 
contract. Hyundai Capital had been given the chance to repair its car, but its repair failed. 
Therefore our investigator recommended Hyundai Capital take the following steps:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Collect the car at no further cost to Miss B.
Refund the customers deposit/part exchange contribution of £4,795.
Pay a 10% refund of rentals to cover any loss of use, or impaired use, of the car 
because of the inherent quality issues.
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until 
the date of settlement.
Pay £300 for distress or inconvenience thats been caused due to the faulty goods.
Ask the credit reference agencies to remove any adverse information it has asked 
them to register on Miss Bs credit file in relation to the agreement.
Initially both Miss B and Hyundai Capital accepted this recommendation, but things did not 
go smoothly from here. 
First, Miss B changed her mind and decided she wanted to keep the car and get it repaired. 
Then Miss B decided she did want to reject the car after all, when she found it could not be 
repaired.  
Subsequently, Hyundai Capital arranged with Miss B to collect the car on three separate 
occasions and each time, Hyundai Capital says on the day and without notice Miss B 
refused to hand its car back, despite having agreed beforehand to return the car. Finally, 
Miss B told Hyundai Capital that she intended to buy a new car but until she did so, she was 
going to keep and use its car, as she needed it to get around. 
Approximately three months after our investigator had made her recommendation, Miss B 
handed the car back to Hyundai Capital. By this time Miss B had purchased a new car, 
however she told us she was out of pocket because she had not received the full financial 
part of the redress as set out in our investigators recommendation. She had intended to use 
that money to buy her new car. But instead shed had to use her credit card in part to pay for 
the car. Therefore shed run up charges on her credit card account which she thought 
Hyundai Capital ought to take responsibility for paying.
Hyundai Capital told us once the car was returned to it, it realised the following:
Miss B had driven 4,600 miles since the date of our investigators view. Therefore, it 
wanted to charge Miss B for this mileage at the rate of 30 pence per mile. The total 
charge was £1,380.
Moreover, in breach of the contract Miss B had never serviced its car, plus the car 
was damaged so it intended to charge her £392 for this.
It appears that Hyundai Capital therefore made a payment to Miss B in line with the 
recommendation but in addition it took off £1,380 and £392 from the total. 
Miss B objected to this on the basis that she did not think Hyundai Capital was entitled to 
deduct these charges from the total. Further, from Miss Bs perspective, the charges were 
only run up due to mistakes made Hyundai Capital after our investigator made her 
recommendation. Specially, Miss B told us, I agreed to give them the car back and was 
waiting for them for ages. 
The complaint could go no further at this stage, so I was asked to take a fresh look at the 
complaint.
I reviewed Miss Bs complaint and having considered the available evidence, I was minded 
to uphold the complaint in part. But the redress I suggested was not the same as our 
investigators given all that had happened after shed made her recommendation. 
In the circumstances, I thought it was fair to let the parties see my provisional findings and 
make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Therefore, I 
issued a provisional decision and Ive set out below what I decided provisionally - and why. 
This forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The issue about the quality of the car is no longer in dispute. Hyundai Capital has now 
accepted that the car was not of satisfactory quality, when supplied, therefore it can be held 
to account for this. The only remaining issue is what is a fair and reasonable remedy for this 
complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Damage to the car and lack of servicing
As far as I am aware Miss B is not disputing that the car was damaged and that she did not 
service it. She just does not agree she should have to pay for these matters.
In holding Miss B to account for the damages to the car and the lack of servicing to the car 
Hyundai Capital is relying on the terms of its contract with Miss B. Those terms make Miss B 
liable to it for these charges. 
I think it is reasonable to assume, as a starting point, that when a person reads and signs an 
agreement (as Miss B did here)  they understand the terms of the agreement and they are 
agreeing to be bound by them. It follows that on the face of it, Hyundai Capital is acting 
reasonably in asking Miss B to pay the charges that she contracted to pay.
I also think it is significant that the lack of servicing of the car, will almost certainly have led 
to Hyundai Capital losing money. I say this because either Hyundai Capital will have had to 
pay for the car to be serviced before selling it on. Or, because Hyundai Capital may have got 
less for the car on the open market because the car had an incomplete service history. I 
dont find that it is fair and reasonable that Hyundai Capital should take this loss. This is 
another reason why I find it fair and reasonable for Hyundai Capital to ask Miss B to pay it 
these charges.
When I look at the circumstances of the complaint, I dont agree I can fairly say Hyundai 
Capital treated Miss B unfairly by keeping her waiting to collect the car and this led to these 
charges. The facts of the complaint as theyve been presented to me dont support that 
version of events, quite the opposite. It follows, I dont agree Miss B is only facing these 
charges because of something Hyundai Capital did wrong.
It follows for all of these reasons Ive no proper basis to uphold this part of Miss Bs 
complaint.
Use of the car
Miss B and Hyundai Capital always agreed that Miss B would pay Hyundai Capital for the 
use of the car. That is what their contract provides for. The question now is should Miss B 
have to pay for the use of the car shes had since May 2022 (when our investigator issued 
the view in which she made her recommendation) and August 2022 (when Miss B handed 
back the car). And If Miss B should pay for that use, how much should she pay?We would expect that when parties agree to a recommendation that one of our investigators 
has made that theyd comply with it without delay. That is not what happened here. I dont 
find that is the  fault of Hyundai Capital. Rather, I can see from Miss Bs perspective she 
wanted to keep hold of the car until she could find a new one. But that being so she has to 
pay for the use she had.
That said, I cant see on what basis it would be fair and reasonable for Hyundai Capital to 
use the methodology it has suggested to calculate the payment for the mileage use. After all 
Miss B never agreed to pay it 30p per mile for the use of the car. Thats a provision that 
Hyundai Capital has retrospectively and unilaterally asked Miss B to accept. Rather, she 
agreed to the monthly repayments so that is the yardstick that should be used. Specifically, 
Hyundai Capital can charge Miss B the pro rata contractual monthly fee for the period 
between the date our investigator issued the view in which she made the recommendation to 
the date Miss B handed back the car. Hyundai Capital must take 10% off that figure to 
acknowledge Miss Bs impaired usage during this time.
Nothing in the agreement between Miss B and Hyundai Capital has ever said that Miss B is 
entitled to drive Hyundai Capitals car for free which is what Miss B appears to be asking for. 
I say this because,  I also note that it appears that the last time Miss B made any repayment 
to Hyundai Capital was in October 2021 therefore she drove the car for free from the date of 
that last payment until the date our investigator issued her view. Thats around seven 
months of free motoring that Miss B has already benefitted from. Hyundai Capital has not 
asked her to pay for this period of use, although it could have done.
Moreover, Miss B appears to have driven a substantial amount of miles in this period. 
Hyundai Capital says in those months she drove 4,600 miles. Miss B has not said this is 
untrue. That amount of extra mileage most likely led to a loss in value in the car. I dont find 
that it is fair and reasonable that Hyundai Capital should pay for a loss that Miss B caused.
For all of these reasons Ive no proper basis for saying Hyundai Capital cannot charge Miss 
B for the use shes had of the car between the date our investigator issued her view, and the 
date Miss B returned the car. Rather, I am saying it can charge for this use, but it must 
calculate the payment she owes by reference to the monthly repayments.
As far as I am aware Hyundai Capital has already carried out all of the redress 
recommended in our investigators view save that it took £1,772.56 = £1,380 + £392.56 off 
the final settlement. It might be useful to see the figures that make up the settlement, so Ive 
set them out below.
However, if I am incorrect and Hyundai Capital has not completed all of the redress that was 
recommended in the view please can the parties tell me in responding to my provisional 
decision. The redress in this decision just focuses on how to calculate the financial 
settlement.
Calculation of settlement to date provided by Hyundai Capital
10% of monthly instalments: £108.80
Compensation for distress and inconvenience: £300
Deposit: £4,795
Interest: £513.26
Total £5,717.06 (Ill call this the total before deductions)
Deductions:
-£1,380 for 4,600 miles at 30 pence per mile where the customer has used the vehicle since 
the view.
Service/damage invoice: -£392.56Total already paid to Miss B by Hyundai Capital: £3,944.50
It follows that all Hyundai Capital has to do now is to behave as if instead of charging Miss B 
for mileage at 30 pence per mile, it charged her the pro rata monthly payments instead, 
minus 10%. 
Miss B has in the past asked us for calculations. It is not this services role to perform 
calculations such as are required in this case, and we will not provide them. But  it is 
Hyundai Capitals role to provide such calculations. So please can it do this calculation and 
send it to us when it responds to my provisional decision. Because we can insist that the 
businesses which fall within our jurisdiction demonstrate that their calculations are correct.
Miss Bs credit card expenses
I appreciate Miss B tells us she incurred expenses on her credit card when she decided, to 
buy a new car on her credit card in anticipation of receiving the settlement money from 
Hyundai Capital. That was Miss Bs choice to make, but I cant fairly hold Hyundai Capital 
responsible for her decision to do this, or for the cost to her of doing so. It follows I dont 
uphold this part of her complaint.
A point of clarification
Ill add for completeness nothing in the redress that our investigator recommended in her 
view, prevented Hyundai Capital from insisting on its contractual rights in relation to charges 
that had already been incurred prior to Hyundai Capital ending the agreement. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to find that Hyundai Capital UK Limited can deduct 
the following sums from the total before deductions:
The pro rata sum that equals the monthly payments Miss B would have paid between 
the date our investigator issued her view and the date Miss B returned the car to 
Hyundai Capital UK. However, it must deduct from this sum 10% to reflect that Miss 
Bs use of the car was impaired due to the inherent fault with the car.
The £392.56 for the servicing and damages.
Whatever sum this comes to Ill call the total after deductions.
If the total after deductions is more than the £3,944.50 then Hyundai Capital UK must give 
Miss B the difference between the two.
Both Miss B and Hyundai Capital responded to my provisional decision. I summarise below 
what they each said.
Miss B responded to say she disagreed with some of the things Id said in my provisional 
decision.  Specifically, shed not driven the car for free between November 2021 and August 
2022. On the contrary, shed made every monthly payment during this period. But Hyundai 
Capital refunded the payment shed made in August 2022 as shed returned the car in July 
2022.  Miss B sent us extracts from her bank statements to demonstrate this. According to 
Miss B Hyundai Capital collected the car on 25 July 2022. As a result, she owes it nothing 
for driving the car.
Miss B added she wants Hyundai Capital to give her the £1,380 it took off her settlement in 
mileage charges. She also wants it to pay her 10% interest on this sum on the basis that if 
shed had this money she would have put it in the bank and achieved this rate of interest on 
the sum.
Further, Miss B wants Hyundai Capital to pay her a further £300 for distress and 
inconvenience. To be clear this is in addition to the £300 it has already paid her for distress and inconvenience. Miss B considers she is entitled to this sum to reflect the time that has 
gone by between when Hyundai Capital paid her £3,944.50 and now. The £300 would also 
reflect that Hyundai Capital provided this service with inaccurate information about her 
payment history. Miss B considers that Hyundai Capital provided this inaccurate information 
deliberately.
Also, Miss B sent us one photo of the car which she told us she returned in excellent 
condition.
Miss B considers shed have been better off selling Hyundai Capitals car by using it in part 
exchange for a new car.
Hyundai Capital told us that Miss B had made her contractual monthly payments to it from 
November 2021 until June 2022. It had refunded the June 2022 payment already and had 
received no further payments from Miss B. Hyundai Capital sent us copies of its internal 
records to support what it had said about this. These records showed all payments it had 
received and all payments it had made.
Up until now Miss B had only shown us a limited extract from her bank statements. We 
asked to see the full statement for June 2022 to see it if showed shed already received a 
refund for this month. Miss B questioned why this was necessary. We explained why. Miss B 
sent us a full statement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their replies. Ive reviewed the file again and revisited my provisional 
decision.
Monthly fees
It is not ideal that the information that Miss B has provided, and that Hyundai Capital has 
provided do not tally.
However both parties have sent us information about payments made and payments 
refunded. So I think theyve both provided us with as much information as they have.
I dont find it likely that either party has provided incomplete or inaccurate information on 
purpose. However,  something does not add up here.
Given that the information provided by each party is to some extent contradictory, I have to 
decide this point on the balance of probabilities.
Miss B has provided us with information from an impartial third party, that is her bank. 
Hyundai Capital has provided us with information from its own records.
I take on board that until we asked it to Hyundai Capital did not supply us with the most up-
to-date information about the payments it received and returned. Whereas Miss B did as 
soon as she realised this information was required.
Miss B has the most to lose here. Plus Hyundai Capital did initially provide us with 
inaccurate information which suggests that its information retrieval systems might be prone 
to error. 
That said, Miss B indicated that from the date she received the view from our investigator 
she had made the car available to Hyundai Capital for collection and it dragged its heels. But 
the evidence Ive seen demonstrates this is incorrect. So I recognise that Miss B has not 
always given us accurate information either.
That said, on balance, in the circumstances, I am persuaded by Miss Bs account of the 
monthly payments she made. That is that she paid all of her monthly payments between December 2021 and July 2022. Im also satisfied that Miss B did return the car in July 2022, 
so she owes nothing for August 2022.
Mileage charge
Nothing Ive seen suggests to me that the mileage charge is appropriate. In particular, 
Hyundai Capital has not told me why it ought to be able to charge for this in addition to the 
monthly payments. It follows that I think Hyundai Capital cannot fairly charge Miss B for this.
That said, Miss B asks for interest on this sum on the basis that if shed had this money 
earlier, she would have put it in the bank and earned 10% interest on it. But shes also told 
us she would have used this money immediately to buy a new car. 
Moreover, she has not demonstrated which bank account she could have put this money 
into and earned 10% interest in any event. 
So, for all of these individual reasons,  Im not persuaded by what Miss B says about being 
entitled to interest on this sum. 
I also note that Hyundai Capital does not appear to have charged Miss B for any of the three 
attempted car pick-ups which she cancelled. It seems some of these pickups were meant to 
be from far flung locations, certainly not from Miss Bs home. And I find it likely that Miss B 
cancelled these pick-ups without notice. There would most likely have been a cost 
associated with each of these attempts. Hyundai Capital might have fairly charged Miss B for 
all the failed pickups but as far as I am aware it did not. So Miss B has potentially benefitted 
financially from this.
For all of these reasons I have no proper basis to tell Hyundai Capital it must pay any 
interest on the £1,380.
Damage to the car and lack of servicing
At the point when I issued my provisional decision Miss B had not disputed the damage to 
the car. Now she is saying she returned the car in excellent condition. But her photograph 
does not throw any light on matters. I say this because it is not a close-up photo. It also 
appears to show the opposite side of the car from where the damage was found. Whereas 
Hyundai Capital has shown us a close-up photo of the damage. 
I also note that the charge for the damage to the car was relatively modest. I have no reason 
therefore to say the amount charged was unreasonable. In any event, Hyundai Capital might 
reasonably have charged this amount, for the lack of servicing alone.
In the circumstances, Ive no proper basis for saying Hyundai Capital cannot charge Miss B 
for the damage to the car and the lack of servicing.
Distress and inconvenience
I dont find that Hyundai Capital is responsible for any delay in Miss B receiving her financial 
settlement. Therefore it follows I find that if Miss B has experienced distress and 
inconvenience in this time, it is not because of anything Hyundai Capital has done wrong.
Miss B is correct to say that Hyundai Capital should have provided accurate information to 
us about her payment history, and it did not. We look at the circumstances of individual 
complaints and, on a case by case basis, make findings about whether a financial business 
has failed its customer in any way. Where we find it has, we make awards designed to make 
the business put things right with the complainant customer. Our awards are not designed to 
punish a business for example for providing inaccurate information, that is the role of the 
regulator.
It follows I  am not persuaded that it is fair and reasonable to tell Hyundai Capital it must pay 
Miss B a further £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Possible sale of the car by Miss BMiss B indicates she might have been better off selling the car. But since she is not the 
owner of the car and never was, I cannot see how that option was ever open to her. It 
follows that I cannot fairly ask Hyundai Capital to compensate Miss B because she did not 
exercise a right she did not have.
What has happened so far
As far as I am aware Hyundai Capital has carried out all of the redress recommended by our 
investigator save for the entirety of the financial portion of that recommendation, which has 
now been amended in any event by me in my provisional and final decisions. I specifically 
asked Miss B and Hyundai Capital to tell me if I was mistaken about this. Neither one of 
them has said anything about this. I take it therefore that my understanding of this point was 
correct.
Ive thought about whether I should ask Hyundai Capital to add interest to any of the refunds 
Ive required it to make. Ive already said why I dont require Hyundai Capital to pay interest 
on the refund of the mileage charge. As to the other refunds, in the circumstances, I dont 
find that Miss B has been deprived of these funds for so long due to anything Hyundai 
Capital has done wrong. Therefore I dont find that it is appropriate to ask it to pay interest on 
these refunds.
In my provisional decision I asked Hyundai Capital to provide new calculations for the 
redress, it has not. Given the history of the complaint and that there is now seemingly a level 
of distrust between Miss B, and Hyundai Capital I anticipate Miss B is going to ask for these. 
I think it would be prudent for Hyundai Capital to get on the front foot and prepare these 
calculations.
My final decision
My final decision is that Hyundai Capital UK Limited,
Can deduct from the total before deductions £392.56 for the servicing and damages.
Must refund Miss B 10% of the payments she made between December 2021 and 
July 2022. But to be clear if the £108.80 it has already refunded already includes a 
refund for this period of time then I am not saying Hyundai Capital UK Limited has to 
make the same payment twice.
Whatever sum this comes to Ill call the total after deductions. It must then add the £1,380 
to the total after deductions. This is the total after deductions plus mileage charge added 
back in.
If the total after deductions plus mileage charge added back in is more than the £3,944.50 
then Hyundai Capital UK must give Miss B the difference between the two.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman