DRN-3688561
The complaint
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 are unhappy with how theyve been treated by Barclays Bank UK 
PLC (Barclays) in relation to their buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage.
What happened
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 took out an interest only BTL mortgage with Barclays in 2008. The 
mortgage term was ten years, so was due to expire in 2018. 
Barclays wrote to Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 in the months leading up to the end of the 
mortgage term, to remind them of this and confirming the outstanding balance due. After not 
hearing from them, Barclays rang and spoke to Mr G1 in April 2018. Following on from this, 
Mr G1 and Mrs G applied for a re-mortgage with Barclays, however this was declined on the 
basis that the application didnt meet Barclays lending criteria. 
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 were unhappy and complained that Barclays had made errors in 
the lead up to the mortgage ending. They said they had notified Barclays of a change of 
address in 2014 but that Barclays hadnt updated their contact details. They said that this 
had led to them not receiving the correspondence from Barclays informing them the term 
was coming to an end and that this had prejudiced them. 
They referred a complaint about this to the Financial Ombudsman Service. An Ombudsman 
here issued a final decision in August 2019. In summary, the Ombudsman said they didnt 
think Barclays had made an error as it didnt have a record of receiving the letter informing it 
of the change of address. They also said they were conscious that Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 
wouldve been aware of how long the mortgage was due to run for when they agreed it, as 
this was set out in the original mortgage offer. They also said that even if an application had 
been made earlier, it wouldnt likely have been accepted, because the application didnt 
meet Barclays lending criteria in a number of areas, including the loan to value (LTV). 
Taking everything into account, the Ombudsman didnt uphold the complaint. 
It looks like any collections activity had been paused pending the outcome of the case, 
however it seems that the mortgage continued after the final decision had been issued. 
Then, in May 2020, Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 received a letter dated January 2020 informing 
them that the current rate they were on was due to end and would automatically switch to a 
variable rate. Over the course of the next month or so, Mr G1 made several attempts to 
contact Barclays over the telephone and via letter. He said he made a number of attempts to 
call where he was waiting for such a long time, hed needed to give up and try another time. 
He did manage to get through to speak to someone mid May and was told that the mortgage 
was due to end in 2038. Understandably, Mr G1 wanted to try to get this clarified and 
confirmed, since it was the first hed heard of this and contrary to what he had understood 
(that the mortgage term had finished and that the mortgage balance needed to be repaid). 
However, his further attempts to engage with Barclays on the topic were fruitless. When he 
rang a different department (as suggested was necessary by the person hed been able to 
speak with over the phone at Barclays) he failed the security questions and couldnt 
therefore find out more about the situation and his options. 
In August 2020, Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 received an offer on the BTL property, which had 
been on the market. They accepted the offer, however the sale value wasnt enough to cover 
the mortgage balance. Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 used other funds to fully repay the 
mortgage balance. 
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 then received further correspondence from Barclays suggesting 
they needed to make further repayments, despite the balance having been cleared. They 
then received further correspondence suggesting that an amount on the mortgage was 
overdue. 
At this point Mr G1 and Mrs G wrote a letter of complaint to Barclays. In summary, they 
complained that it had been very difficult trying to make contact with Barclays and they 
hadnt received a response to any of the letters sent since May 2020. They said theyd 
needed to sell the property because they had felt pressured into repaying the mortgage for 
fear of any consequences should Barclays have demanded repayment in full. They also 
complained that their solicitor had struggled to obtain a final redemption fee prior to the sale 
of the property and also about the customer service issues theyd experienced, in terms of 
the difficulties making contact. 
Barclays issued a final response letter in November 2020. In summary, it said that it couldnt 
see any letters had been received on the system and so it didnt think it had made any error. 
It said it had received written requests for a redemption statement from the solicitor and sent 
this to them. It also said however that it was offering Mr G1 and Mrs G £150 for not 
addressing the complaint in a timely manner. 
Mr G1 and Mrs G referred their concerns to the Financial Ombudsman Service. They said 
that in addition to the points already raised, their solicitor still hadnt received confirmation 
from Barclays that the mortgage had been discharged.
Barclays issued another final response letter in February 2021. In summary, it accepted 
there had been an error in terms of the correspondence sent saying there was still an 
outstanding balance when the account had in fact been in credit. It confirmed the charge on 
the property had been released. Barclays offered another £50 to apologise and to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this, bringing its total offer of compensation to £200. 
Mr G1 and Mrs G were pleased that the charge on the property had finally been released. 
However, they remained unhappy as they didnt think Barclays had fully investigated all of 
their concerns. 
An investigator here reached a view. In summary, they said that as they hadnt seen 
evidence to show the letters Mr G1 had sent had been sent recorded delivery, he couldnt 
say that Barclays has made an error by not responding to them. In terms of the difficulties 
Mr G1 had faced trying to get in contact with Barclays by phone, he thought this was 
probably affected by the pandemic and again he couldnt say Barclays had made an error. 
The investigator accepted that the correspondence Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 received after 
theyd cleared the balance wouldve been confusing and was unnecessary, but they didnt 
think that there was any pressure from Barclays. They said that after receiving the 
Ombudsmans final decision in relation to the previous complaint, Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 
wouldve known that Barclays couldnt assist with any re-mortgage and that the balance 
needed to be repaid. 
Taking everything into account, the investigator recommended that Barclays increase the £50 it awarded in the second final response letter, to £250  bringing the total amount of 
compensation to £400. 
Barclays accepted the investigators recommendation. Mr G1 and Mrs G did not. In addition 
to re-emphasising points theyd previously made, they said that Barclays shouldve offered 
e-mail as a way of communicating about the mortgage. Regarding the letters sent, these had 
all been recorded delivery and signed for. They also said theyd never received the first final 
response letter with the offer of £150. 
The investigator acknowledged what Mr G1 and Mrs G had said about the letters having 
been sent recorded delivery, but noted that no evidence had been provided to show this. 
They also said that even if Barclays had responded to the letters, nothing fundamental in the 
situation would have changed in that the mortgage balance still needed to be repaid. The 
investigator sent Mr G1 and Mrs G a copy of the first final response letter containing the offer 
of £150. 
In response, Mr G1 and Mrs G provided evidence that the letters had been sent to Barclays 
by recorded delivery and signed for. They re-iterated why they thought Barclays ought to 
have agreed to extend the mortgage at the end of the original 10 year term and confirmed 
that they still didnt accept the Ombudsmans decision to the contrary. They said they were 
also worried that Barclays might be reporting some kind of adverse information against 
them, which might affect their ability to obtain future credit. 
The investigator forwarded to Barclays the evidence of the letters from Mr G1 having been 
signed for, asking for its comments. Barclays response was that it couldnt provide a specific 
reason why none of the letters were showing in the system. 
The investigator issued a further view on the complaint. They said they were satisfied from 
the evidence provided by Mr G1 and Mrs G that Barclays ought to have received the letters 
and responded to them. So, he considered what shouldve happened if Barclays had 
engaged with the letters. The investigator still thought this wouldnt have made a difference 
to the overall situation, for the same reasons i.e. Barclays had already told Mr G1, Mrs G 
and Mr G2 that it wouldnt agree to a re-mortgage. So Barclays not responding to the letters 
couldnt be said to have forced Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 to sell the BTL property. The 
investigator said he still thought that Barclays should pay a total of £400 compensation to 
reflect what had happened. 
Mr G1 and Mrs G said they still thought the £400 wasnt enough, but would accept the 
amount, provided it came with an apology from Barclays. The investigator put this to 
Barclays and didnt hear anything back. Mr G1 and Mrs G then said they wanted to escalate 
the matter, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
Following an initial review of the key correspondence, I asked the investigator to ask 
Barclays whether it would be prepared to issue a letter of apology, as this might then resolve 
matters. Barclays responded saying it had sent a letter of apology to Mr G1 and Mrs G and it 
provided a copy of the letter. 
I asked the investigator to share this with Mr G1 and Mrs G, alongside my initial thoughts, 
based on reading the key correspondence. In summary, I said that I couldnt comment on 
the matters decided by another Ombudsman in 2019. And that from what Id seen, whilst I 
could understand that the customer service issues and correspondence from Barclays post 
sale of the property wouldve caused confusion and upset, I didnt think it could be said that 
Barclays had caused Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 a financial loss. I said that based on what Id 
reviewed to that point, I thought the £400 compensation seemed about right and I asked 
Mr G1 and Mrs G if they were now prepared to consider the matter resolved, given that Barclays has sent a letter of apology. 
Mr G1 and Mrs G replied to say they hadnt seen the letter of apology before and that they 
had doubts about its authenticity. They said they didnt think Id fully understood their 
complaint and set out why they thought Barclays has caused them a financial loss in terms 
of the shortfall from the sale and loss of rent. They said they were disappointed that I was 
letting Barclays off extremely lightly, which they thought was unacceptable. They asked what 
Barclays has put in place to avoid similar problems happening in the future and asked a 
number of other questions, which they hoped Id provide answers to. 
I gave Barclays an opportunity to provide any final comments by 3 November 2022. Nothing 
further was provided, so Ive gone on to review the case and decide the outcome.
I noticed that Mr G2 hadnt joined in the complaint and he subsequently provided his 
authority for this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think dont consider that Barclays has caused 
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mrs G2 a financial loss. I also find that £400 represents a fair amount of 
compensation for the frustration and upset caused to Mr G1 and Mrs G by the problems with 
Barclays customer service and its poor administration of the mortgage account. Ill explain 
why.
Before I do, I want to set out my role as an ombudsman. It isnt to address every single point 
thats been made or question thats been asked to date. Instead, its to decide whats fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only going to 
refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and my 
reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, I 
will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.
To decide this complaint, I need to determine whether Barclays caused 
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mrs G2 a financial loss and also consider the impact on them, where 
things have gone wrong.
Has Barclays caused Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 a financial loss?
Mr G1, Mr G and Mr G2 argue that Barclays caused them a financial loss, because the 
difficulties they encountered making contact about the mortgage and Barclays failure to 
respond appropriately to Mr G1s letters led Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 to feel pressured into 
selling the BTL property. I appreciate they feel strongly about this issue, however, I dont find 
this to be a credible argument, for a number of reasons.
First, in each of the letters Mr G1 sent to Barclays by recorded delivery, the first being in May 
2020, he states that their intention is to sell the property. Logically, this immediately 
undermines any argument that Barclays lack of response to any of the letters, can be said to 
have led to Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 feeling pressured to sell the property  in that it was 
clearly already their intention to do this. 
Any pressure Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 felt to sell the property already existing from the 
situation as they understood it  that their mortgage had come to an end and Barclays was not prepared to offer a new or extended mortgage (which another Ombudsmans decision 
previously covered  and which its not appropriate for me to comment on or interfere with in 
any way). 
If anything, the suggestion that the mortgage may in fact be running to 2038 could only 
reasonably have served to have reduced any pressure that Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 felt to 
sell the property. 
In conclusion, I do not find that Barclays caused Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 any financial loss. 
The impact of Barclays poor customer service and administration of the mortgage post sale 
of the BTL property
Mr G1 has provided evidence to show that he sent a number of letters recorded delivery that 
were signed for and yet Barclays has no record of receiving them. Barclays has not been 
able to provide a reason as to why none of the letters are showing on its systems. 
Its unclear what happened here. I would expect Barclays to have responded to letters they 
received. I can certainly understand Mr G1 and Mrs Gs frustration at having received 
confirmation that letters theyd sent had been received and then not receiving any response. 
As above, I cannot reasonably conclude this caused them a financial loss, but I accept it will 
have caused quite a bit of frustration and disappointment.  
I also accept that Mr G1 had difficulty making contact with Barclays over the phone and may 
well have endured some long wait times. However, its likely that this was at least in part a 
consequence of the affect of the pandemic. Mr G1 wasnt being treated differently to any 
other customer and I cant reasonably say that delays in being able to get through on the 
phone represent an error as such. I also appreciate that Mr G1 considers that Barclays 
ought to have provided him with an e-mail address to make contact. However, there was no 
requirement for Barclays to offer e-mail contact in the way Mr G1 wouldve liked. So, I also 
dont consider that this represents any kind of error. 
Barclays has accepted it made errors in the administration of the mortgage account and the 
associated correspondence it sent to Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 after the balance of the 
mortgage had been cleared. I can understand and accept that being asked to continue 
making payments towards a mortgage they believed had been cleared and possible 
consequences arising from this e.g. to do with their credit file, caused Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr 
G2 unnecessary confusion and worry. 
Taking everything into account, I think a figure of £400 represents fair compensation to 
reflect the impact of Barclays errors on Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2. I appreciate that 
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 consider it to be a miserly amount and that this represents letting 
Barclays off lightly. However, it is not within my remit to punish a business. I need to 
consider what is an appropriate figure of compensation, to reflect the impact of the errors. 
I consider £400 to be appropriate and in line with our approach to compensation payments, 
more details of which can be found on our web-site.
Finally, Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 have expressed concern that their credit file may have 
been impacted in some way in relation to the correspondence they received saying they still 
owed money on the mortgage, despite having cleared the balance. Barclays has confirmed 
to them that nothing remains owed and that the mortgage has been fully discharged. If 
Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 consider in the future that Barclays has in some way reported 
inaccurately about the status of the mortgage to credit reference agencies, they should raise 
this with Barclays in the first instance. Putting things right
Barclays should pay Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2 a total of £400 in compensation. If any has 
already been paid, they only need to make up the difference.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr G1, Mrs G and Mr G2s complaint about Barclays Bank 
UK PLC and I direct it to do what Ive set out above under putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G, Mrs G and 
Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman