DRN-3339276
The complaint
Mr L complains that Vanquis Bank Limited declined his payment deferral request.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Mr L had a credit card with Vanquis. At the start of 2020, there were some missed payments.
The arrears and full balance were cleared in May 2020.
In July 2020 Mr L contacted Vanquis after losing his job and applied for a payment deferral. 
At the time, Mr Ls credit card had a credit limit of £500 and the outstanding balance was
£549.90. Vanquis approved a three month payment deferral and confirmed the 
arrangement in writing.
In October 2020 Mr L contacted Vanquis again and asked it to agree another three month 
payment deferral. Vanquis declined the request because the outstanding balance exceeded 
Mr Ls credit limit. Vanquis discussed Mr Ls circumstances with him, including whether he 
was up to date with priority bills. Vanquis says it wanted to see whether it could provide 
other support to Mr L in place of the payment deferral. But no agreement was reached and 
Mr Vs account balance increased when interest and charges were applied.
Mr L complained but Vanquis didnt agree it had made any errors. Vanquis has confirmed no 
payments were made from October 2020 so Mr Ls card was later closed and a default was 
recorded on his credit file.
Mr L referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Vanquis had dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr L asked to appeal and said Vanquis had failed to follow industry guidelines by applying 
interest to his credit card. Mr L also said Vanquis had failed to offer an affordable payment 
plan and closed his credit card despite his ongoing complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and argument is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr L had lost his job and wanted to reach an agreement with Vanquis to give 
him some breathing space. The July 2020 payment deferral was agreed, but it didnt stop 
interest accruing on Mr Ls credit card debt. When Mr L requested the second deferral, he 
told Vanquis he was still out of work. At the time, Mr Ls credit limit was £500 but the 
outstanding balance had gone up to £568.69.
Vanquis declined Mr Ls second payment deferral because the balance was over the 
agreed credit limit. But, I think its reasonable to note that Mr Ls balance was over the 
credit limit when he originally applied for a payment deferral in July 2020. So I can 
understand why Mr L is unhappy his request was declined three months later in similar 
circumstances.
Ive looked at the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidance about deferrals. It says 
businesses shouldnt offer a payment deferral that isnt in the customers best interests. 
The guidance also says a deferral shouldnt be approved if the customer is already 
experiencing financial difficulties that arent connected with the pandemic. The deferral 
guidance provided by the FCA says the process is intended to be used on a temporary 
basis and businesses can decide to decline a request and offer other assistance instead.
I understand Mr L feels Vanquis shouldve approved a second payment deferral. But the 
information Ive seen indicates his circumstances werent suitable for a payment deferral in 
July 2020. In my view, Vanquis shouldve taken that opportunity to try and review Mr Ls 
circumstances and considered offering a greater level of forbearance.
FCA guidance on forbearance where a customer is in arrears gives a range of options 
available to the business. Considering Mr Ls circumstances, I think Vanquis shouldve 
considered waiving interest following his call in July 2020 rather than approving a deferral 
application which had the effect of increasing the outstanding balance. At this point, Mr Ls 
account balance had already gone over the credit limit, so his credit card was technically in 
arrears. In my view, it shouldve been reasonably clear to Vanquis that approving a 
payment deferral that meant a further three months interest were added to the outstanding 
balance wasnt the right option for Mr L. I think the way Vanquis handled Mr Ls account 
made matters worse, which ultimately undermines the purpose of the FCAs guidelines.
Vanquis attempted to carry out an assessment of Mr Ls circumstances after his second 
deferral application was turned down in October 2020. I note Vanquis asked Mr L about 
priority bills and was told he was in arrears with a utility supplier. Vanquis says Mr L ended 
the phone call when he was asked for information about whether he could afford to pay 
his utility arrears and make a payment towards his credit card. I think Vanquis was trying 
to get a clearer understanding of Mr Ls circumstances and whether he was able to afford 
repayments. Its the approach I think Vanquis shouldve taken in July 2020, instead of 
approving the payment deferral.
The effect of approving the first payment deferral delayed the point at which 
Vanquis stopped applying interest and closed Mr Ls account. In July 2020 Mr Ls 
outstanding balance was £549.90 but when the account was closed the balance 
had increased to £646.56. In my view, Vanquis unfairly applied interest on balances 
over £549.90. As a result, I intend to uphold Mr Ls complaint and tell Vanquis to 
refund all interest and fees applied to balances over £549.90.
I also think the approach taken by Vanquis delayed the closure of Mr Ls credit card 
and default. Had Vanquis started its collections process in July 2020, I think wouldve 
closed Mr Ls account by December 2020. That means the default it recorded in April 
2021 will remain on Mr Ls credit file for longer. So I also intend to tell Vanquis to 
backdate the default to December 2020.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional information they wanted me to consider 
before made my final decision. 
We didnt hear back from Mr L. Vanquis responded and said:
- Its process allowed it to offer a payment holiday where customers were no more than 
one payment in arrears- The July 2020 statement was issued prior to the payment freeze application Mr L 
made. It showed no payment had been made during the previous charging cycle. 
That impacted the outstanding balance so it exceeded the agreed credit limit. 
- Vanquis felt Mr Ls financial difficulties were short term in nature and that a payment 
holiday, granted under the FCA Payment Deferral Guidance, was a better option than 
forbearance
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Vanquis response to my provisional decision and relooked at the information 
we have on file. Whilst I understand Vanquis standard approach meant it had the option of 
approving a payment holiday for customers who were in arrears, Im not persuaded thats 
fair in Mr Ls case. 
Vanquis response says Mr Ls credit card payment hadnt been made and that the 
outstanding balance exceeded the agreed credit limit when it agreed a payment holiday. I 
think Vanquis shouldve considered Mr Ls specific circumstances. I looked at all the 
available information again, but I remain of the view that it shouldve been reasonably clear 
to Vanquis that a payment holiday in July 2020 wasnt the right option for Mr L. In my view, 
the approval of the payment holiday had the effect of increasing the final outstanding 
balance and lengthening the process of closing Mr Ls account. 
Ive considered Vanquis response but havent been persuaded to change my view of 
Mr Ls complaint. I still think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Vanquis Bank Limited to settle as 
follows: 
- Refund all interest and charges applied to Mr ls credit card above balances of 
£549.90 
- Backdate default to December 2020 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman