The complaint
Mrs A complains that Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) is responsible for poor 
service in connection with a domestic appliance insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs A had a D&G policy that covered her fridge freezer. She needed it to store her 
medication. When it broke down, D&G offered a replacement fridge freezer or vouchers. Mrs 
A complained that neither was satisfactory. 
Mrs A brought her complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint 
should be upheld. He thought that D&G hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mrs A 
unfairly. He said that the overall capacity of the fridge on the replacement model is larger.
Mrs A disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
The policy should have given her 'like for like' specification.
The proposed replacement wasn't like for like because of the number of shelves and
digital display.
It wasnt a larger capacity in the fridge.
The amount she was offered as cash wasn't fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the details of Mrs As old fridge freezer.
The policy terms provided for repair of the fridge freezer or a replacement with one of a 
same or similar make and technical specification or vouchers for the full retail price from a 
retailer of D&Gs choice.
From the policy terms, I find that  even if Mrs As old fridge freezer wasnt irreparable or 
beyond economical repair - D&G was able to offer a replacement. I havent seen anything in 
the policy terms about an upgrade fee.
Ive looked at the details of the model D&G offered as a replacement. I accept that it had a 
retail price of £1,249.00. It wasnt the same as Mrs As old model and didnt meet her 
requirements for an LED display or the number of storage compartments in the fridge door.
DRN-1728602But from the details Im satisfied that D&G offered a replacement of the same make and a 
similar technical specification. And D&G offered to waive the upgrade fee of £415.00.
Mrs A wanted a different model that D&G said had an upgrade fee of £720.00, from which 
D&G wouldve deducted the £415.00 (so reducing the upgrade fee to £305.00). 
Alternatively D&G offered £1,249.00. As Mrs A told us she had bought a new fridge freezer, 
D&G paid Mrs A £1,249.00 in late April 2019.
Overall I'm satisfied that D&G treated Mrs A fairly in line with the policy terms. I dont find it 
fair and reasonable to direct D&G to pay Mrs A any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Domestic and General Insurance PLC to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman