DRN-3713543
The complaint
Mr D complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay) wrongly increased his credit limit when this was 
not affordable for him.
What happened
Mr D took out a credit card with NewDay in August 2018. NewDay says that he told them 
that he earned £12,000 per year and had unsecured debts of £100. They say that they 
carried out checks into his credit history and identified defaults from over three years ago. In 
the circumstances, NewDay accepted his application and offered a credit limit of £450.
NewDay increased this credit limit repeatedly over the coming years in the following 
amounts:
December 2018 £1,100
April 2019 £2,100
August 2020 £3,100
December 2020 £4,350
April 2021 £5,850
While Mr D did not ask for any of these extensions, NewDay says that these increased limits 
were responsible lending. In support of this, NewDay say that the increases were based 
upon the information Mr D had initially provided, together with the manner in which the 
account was managed, and reasonable assessments of likely disposable income available 
to Mr D. They say that the first increase in particular was for a relatively small sum, given Mr 
Ds reported income. They say that Mr D was able to maintain payments, and indeed often 
made overpayments over the course of the agreement.
Mr D says that NewDay should never have offered him a credit card, as he was not able to 
afford to make the repayments. He says that each of the extended credit limits only made his 
financial situation worse. In support of this, he has provided bank statements from the 
relevant periods. He says that his financial situation did not improve over the life of the 
account, and that each increase was unaffordable.
Our investigator thought that the initial offer of the card had been reasonable, but that further 
checks should have been carried out before any credit increases were applied. They thought 
that reasonable checks would have shown that the increases were not affordable.
NewDay did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Before providing credit, a business must take reasonable steps to make sure that the lending 
is affordable to the customer. This means that appropriate checks must be made at the 
outset, but also before any increase in a credit limit. There isnt a set list of checks that 
lenders needed to carry out. But all of the rules and guidance refer to any checks being 
proportionate.
I have considered the information that NewDay obtained from Mr D before providing the 
initial £450 credit limit. They asked him to tell them how much he earned, and made some 
checks into his credit history. The defaults which were identified were reasonably old, and 
the credit limit offered was modest. In the circumstances, I think it was reasonable for 
NewDay to rely upon what Mr D told them, together with the additional checks that it carried 
out. So I think that NewDay had acted reasonably at that point.
While I have considered what NewDay say about the initial increase, I do not agree that the 
checks carried out at that point were sufficient. The first limit increase was for over 200% of 
the original limit, only a matter of months after the initial assessment that £450 was the 
appropriate limit. While I understand that additional factors were being considered, I do not 
think that it was appropriate to base this increase upon assumptions about Mr Ds 
disposable income. I think that NewDay should have asked Mr D himself more about his 
circumstances, in particular about his income and regular outgoings.
Having decided that NewDay did not carry out reasonable checks in December 2018, I must 
consider what such checks would have uncovered. In order to assess this, I have considered 
the bank statements that Mr D provides from the relevant period. These show Mr Ds 
monthly spending regularly exceeding his income, which appears to have been supported by 
payments from individuals. A number of direct debits were returned unpaid over the relevant 
period, demonstrating that Mr D was also struggling with his cash flow. In the circumstances, 
I do not think that Mr Ds financial situation supported an increased credit limit and that 
asking him about his income and expenditure would more likely than not have uncovered 
this. Having considered all of the evidence, I am satisfied that this reasoning applies equally 
to each subsequent increase.
While NewDay is correct to say that there were overpayments during the course of the 
agreement, there were also a number of overlimit charges. These started in June 2019, 
shortly after the second increased limit, and were applied on a number of occasions after 
this. His sporadic overpayments suggested occasional boosts to income, rather than an 
income which could support regular payments to service increasing debt. This is supported 
by the occasional payments which Mr D would receive from individuals. I am satisfied that it 
is more likely than not that he was being supported by these individuals to help him make 
payments. During the life of the agreement, Mr Ds payments toward the account would 
regularly be lower than his spending on it. 
I am satisfied overall that Mr Ds description of his finances is an accurate one and that his 
use of the card supports his description of the lending as unaffordable. Had NewDay carried 
out proper checks, I am therefore satisfied that it would have concluded that none of the 
higher credit limits were affordable to Mr D and so would not have applied them. This 
additional lending was unaffordable and proper checks would have made this clear to 
NewDay.  
Putting things right
While Mr D has had the benefit of the amounts he has spent, and must repay this, the 
interest and charges which have been applied by NewDay since that first increased credit 
limit must be refunded to him. In addition, NewDay must ensure that Mr Dd credit file 
reflects the situation as it ought to have been had these mistakes not been made.My final decision
For the reasons given above, NewDay Ltd must:
1. Rework the account removing all interest and charges which have been applied since 
17 December 2018;
2. If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr D along with 
8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. NewDay Ltd should also remove all adverse information recorded after 17 
December 2018, regarding this account from Mr Ds credit file;
3. If after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, NewDay Ltd should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan with Mr D for the remaining amount. Once Mr D has cleared 
the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 17 December 2018 should 
be removed from his credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay Ltd to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
NewDay must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for 
one. If NewDay intend to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, they must do 
so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman