DRN-4425809
The complaint
This complaints about a mortgage Mrs L holds with Paratus AMC Limited trading as 
Foundation Home Loans. There are two elements to Mrs Ls complaint  Ill detail them 
below  which relate primarily to how Paratus has treated her requests for the mortgage 
term to be extended.
What happened
The two components to Mrs Ls complaint are, in summary:
Paratus only being prepared to extend the mortgage term by six months, instead of three 
years; and
mistakenly writing to Mrs L on 27 September 2022 telling her a field agent would visit the 
mortgaged property.
Paratus addressed the above points in final responses dated 7 September 2022 and 
4 November 2022 respectively. 
When the case came to us, Paratus objected to us considering the point about the term 
extension because Mrs L had referred it to us outside the six-month time limit. Our 
investigator agreed, and issued a view explaining why she thought the point about the term 
extension was time-barred. In a separate view on the point about the field visit letter, the 
investigator recommended Paratus pay Mrs L £100 compensation for the distress it caused 
her.
Mrs L asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. In a decision dated 24 October 
2023, I determined that our jurisdiction to consider this complaint was confined to the second 
listed point above; i.e. Paratus mistakenly writing to Mrs L on 27 September 2022 telling her 
a field agent would visit the mortgaged property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive set out my conclusions and the reasons for them below.
This isnt a complaint where I have to decide fault. Paratus has accepted it should not have 
sent the letter, and has apologised for having done so. What that leaves for me to decide is 
whether there are further steps Paratus should take to put things right, and if so, what those 
steps should be. 
The letter was sent because the mortgage term had ended, and the writer of the letter was 
seeking to find out what Mrs Ls plans were for repaying the outstanding balance, apparently 
unaware that another department had granted her a six-month grace period. This was an 
example of the left hand not knowing what the right hand was doing, and clearly shouldnt 
have happened. 
Nonetheless, Ive no doubt it came as a considerable annoyance to Mrs L, for which its 
appropriate that she should receive suitable recompense. Mrs L clearly has wider reasons to 
be very upset by what is happening now that her mortgage term has ended, but I cant take 
those into account here. I can only consider the impact of the 27 September 2022 letter in 
isolation. The mistake was soon put right and the available evidence doesnt suggest 
anything materially harmful came from it. Our investigator recommended £100, and in all the 
circumstances that Im able to take into account here, I think thats fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that Paratus AMC Limited trading as Foundation Home Loans must pay 
Mrs L £100. I make no other order or award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman