DRN-2648194
The complaint
Mr S complains that M&G Securities Limited sent him dividend cheques from his investment 
Individual Savings Account (ISA), when these would normally be invested back into it. Hes 
concerned that these may be counted towards his ISA allowance if he pays them into 
another ISA.
What happened
Mr S holds an investment ISA with M&G. The dividends he receives from this were usually 
reinvested back into the ISA, however in December 2019, M&G temporarily suspended 
dealing in the particular fund which Mr Ss ISA was invested in. This meant that M&G sent 
him cheques for the dividends instead, as it said it couldnt hold the payments within the ISA 
while the fund is suspended. 
Mr S said that this meant that the money wouldnt stay within the ISA environment as he 
wished. He suggested that the dividend payments could be made into another of his ISA 
funds with M&G, or into another ISA he holds elsewhere.
 
M&G said that it had written to all affected customers to advise of the suspension of the fund 
and explain that further investments couldnt be made into it during the suspension. Dividend 
payments due to be reinvested, like Mr Ss, would need to be sent out by cheque instead. 
M&G apologised that this hadnt been made clear in its letter. M&G said that it doesnt have 
the ability to hold cash within an ISA product so couldnt transfer the dividend to another of 
Mr Ss ISAs; and they could only be reinvested in the same investment they came from.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. This 
was because the terms of the fund clarified that during a suspension no further investment in 
could be made into it. He was satisfied that M&G was within its rights to suspend the fund. 
The investigator said that M&G wasnt able to reinvest Mr Ss dividends into another of his 
ISAs.
Mr S didnt accept the investigators findings. He said he doesnt think that M&G is providing 
an adequate service to its investors. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done this, I find Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, for much 
the same reasons.
In December 2019, M&G made the decision to temporarily suspend a fund that Mr Ss ISA 
invests in. It wrote to its customers to explain why this was, and what this meant for their 
investment. It said that the fund would still be actively managed and would otherwise operate 
as normal with income payments being made. But any instructions to buy or sell units in the 
fund wouldnt be accepted until the suspension was lifted.
Mr Ss dividends from this fund were normally reinvested back into it, but this couldnt carry 
on while the fund is suspended as it would be buying further units in it.
I do appreciate Mr Ss strength of feeling about this, and how it means that his dividends are 
being paid directly to him in the form of a cheque rather than being reinvested into his ISA as 
he wishes. And I can see that he has suggested other ways that he would like the income 
payment directed to another of his ISAs. 
However, I dont think that M&G has acted unfairly or inappropriately with Mr Ss ISA or his 
request. It isnt able to keep the dividends as cash within the ISA fund, or redirect it to 
another of his ISAs. 
Although I understand that Mr S may wish to credit these payments into another of his ISAs 
directly, it is possible that these may be considered as new credits towards his ISA 
allowance within the tax year. I can only suggest, as the investigator has done, that Mr S 
looks to clarify this status with HM Revenue & Customs so that he is fully informed of any 
impact this may have on his financial plans.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman