DRN-1123859
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with his chargeback request.
What happened
Mr S holds a credit card with Nationwide with a credit limit of £1700. He said he had set up a 
regular payment to a company that Ill refer to as D in this decision. Mr S said this company 
was meant to debit $75 each month from his credit card account. But, on 24 July 2019 it 
debited £1325.42. Four days later it debited a further payment of £337.39 from Mr S 
account. The total it therefore claimed from Mr S account was £1662.81, which caused him 
to exceed his credit limit.
Mr S said he hadnt authorised Julys payments to D. He said he was expecting to be 
charged a monthly subscription amount but D had taken an annual payment upfront from his 
account against his instructions. So, he contacted Nationwide to ask it to deal with these 
payments as disputed transactions under its chargeback procedure so he could get his 
money back. He told Nationwide he was happy for D to debit his account with $75 per month 
but not the payments it had taken in July.
Nationwide told Mr S it would send him documentation to enable him to initiate the 
chargeback process. But Mr S wanted Nationwide to send him a text or email message to 
start that process off. Nationwide told him it wasnt able to do so and it informed Mr S his 
chargeback request would be dealt with by a specific team. Mr S wasnt happy about this 
asked Nationwide to log a complaint on his behalf. Nationwide responded saying it had 
taken Mr S frustrations into account and offered him £25 as a goodwill payment. 
Mr S asked Nationwide to refund the disputed payments while it investigated. But it told him 
it wasnt able to do that. Mr S raised concerns that this meant he couldnt use his card. And 
he asked Nationwide to increase his credit limit in the circumstances. But Nationwide 
declined to do so because it said there were no offers available for Mr S and hed already 
increased his credit facility within the previous six months. It therefore told him the only way 
hed be able to use his card would be to make a payment towards his account balance.
In accordance with the chargeback process Nationwide contacted D to clarify the 
authenticity of Julys payments. D responded explaining that Mr S had been a customer with 
it since 2014. And it said Julys payment had been an advanced annual subscription, which 
Mr S had authorised. This subscription was for $1224 and was due to renew on 24 July 
2020.
Based on the information Nationwide received from D it informed Mr S it wasnt able to 
uphold his chargeback claim as it had no grounds for disputing the transactions. It told Mr S 
he had a subscription with D, which meant it could request payments as and when it wanted. 
And it stated his subscription with D was available to be utilised. It also said, while he had 
wanted his subscription o be paid monthly, he had agreed to an annual subscription with D  
the cost of which it had claimed in July 2019. Mr S wasnt happy with Nationwides response to his chargeback claim. He said his credit 
file had been adversely affected by what had happened. And he felt hed been treated 
unfairly by Nationwide. So he bought his complaint to our service. But, while our investigator 
empathised with Mr S, they didnt uphold his complaint. Overall, they didnt think Nationwide 
had acted unreasonably and they didnt think it needed to do anymore here. Mr S disagreed 
and asked an ombudsman to decide his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr S and Nationwide that Ive read everything thats been sent. 
So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that I 
dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
There are five parts to this and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with them 
separately. 
Did Nationwide act fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with Mr S chargeback request?
I think its important to explain that the chargeback process allows consumers to ask their 
card issuer to reverse payments made on their card in certain circumstances  such as 
where there's a problem with the transaction. It doesnt guarantee that consumers will get 
their money back - its not a legal right - and individual card issuers have their own rules to 
say how the scheme works.
Its clear that Mr S doesnt think Nationwide offered him sufficient assistance in raising a 
chargeback claim. But once it was made aware by Mr S that there was a problem with Julys 
payment to D I can see that Nationwide tried to assist him. Ill explain why.
Ive seen evidence to show that Nationwide offered to send Mr S documents hed need to 
complete and return in order to initiate the chargeback process. I appreciate that he would 
have preferred the process to have been commenced via text or email message. But thats 
not how Nationwide operates. So, to raise a chargeback claim Mr S would have had to 
complete the documents Nationwide offered to send him. It therefore didnt make an error in 
asking Mr S to use the documents it was posting him.
In addition to sending Mr S the documents hed need, Im satisfied Nationwide informed him 
what he would need to do if he wanted it to raise a chargeback claim. I say this because, 
ultimately, Mr S was able to provide Nationwide with information it needed in order to 
investigate his claim.
Ive seen evidence that, after Mr S disputed Julys transactions, it contacted D to clarify the 
authenticity of the payments. This is a step Id expect a bank to take in the circumstances of 
a disputed transaction. 
Having contacted D, Nationwide said D told it that Mr S had provided it with his credit card 
details when the subscription was started. Because of this Nationwide treated these transactions as authenticated. And this explains why it couldnt uphold Mr S chargeback 
claim. I cant fairly conclude Nationwide made an error here.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Nationwide clearly explained to Mr S the 
reasons why it wasnt able to refund the payments D took in July 2019. It told him his 
payments to D had been registered as a subscription, which was due to the way in which he 
had set up his account with D. I appreciate that Mr S may not have wanted to set up an 
annual subscription. But as his account had been set up as a subscription he gave his 
authority for D to request payment from his account as and when. With that in mind I cant 
say Nationwide made an error in allowing the payments to debit Mr S account.
Because Mr S had authorised the payments D claimed Im satisfied Nationwide dealt with 
and concluded his chargeback request fairly. It acted reasonably in asking its disputes team 
to deal with the disputed transactions. That department was trained to investigate and 
process credit card disputes. So, it was proper for that department to be tasked with 
assisting Mr S with his chargeback request. Im also satisfied Nationwide acted correctly in 
placing a block on Mr S account to prevent D from debiting any further payments from his 
account. This is what Id expect it to do.
Did Nationwide make an error in notifying Mr S that his credit limit had been exceeded?
I can see that Mr S was unhappy that Nationwide wrote to him to inform him that his credit 
limit had been exceeded after D had taken the payments. However, as Nationwide explained 
it has a regulatory obligation to notify its customers when theyve exceeded their credit limit, 
irrespective of whether this is due to authorised or unauthorised use of their card.
I can understand why this upset Mr S  particularly given the background relating to the 
transactions that placed his account balance over his credit limit. However, I cant fairly 
criticise Nationwide for sending communications its obligated to send. This is something Id 
expect it to do. And it goes to show Nationwide is following its processes correctly and 
responsibly. So, I dont think it did anything wrong here.
Did Nationwide make a mistake in declining to credit Mr S account while it investigated the 
disputed transactions?
Nationwide said in line with its processes it wouldnt credit a customers account while it 
investigated a disputed transaction. I appreciate that this restricted Mr S account because it 
meant he wasnt able to use his credit card unless his balance was reduced. 
Mr S has referred our service to how other card issuers deal with chargeback requests. He 
said one of his other card providers refunded disputed transaction payments temporarily 
pending its investigation. But, while I understand why Mr S may be keen for me to know 
about how other providers have dealt with disputed transactions, this complaint is against 
Nationwide.
Nationwides decision not to refund disputed transactions pending an investigation is a 
business decision that its entitled to make. Were not the regulator of banks. So, we cant tell 
a business to change its policy in this regard. Im satisfied that Nationwide followed its own 
policy properly and this is why it wasnt able to credit Mr S account pending its investigation.
Did Nationwide make a mistake in declining to increase Mr S credit limit?
Mr S requested that Nationwide increase his credit limit because the payments D took from 
his account in July 2019 led to him exceeding his credit limit. This meant he wasnt able to use his debit card unless Nationwide increased his credit limit or, in the alternative, he made 
a payment to reduce the balance.
Nationwide said it declined Mr S request to increase his credit limit because he had 
increased his credit facility less than six months previously. I appreciate Mr S was only 
asking for a small increase to enable him to use his credit card while Nationwide investigated 
the disputed transactions. But Nationwide said its process for increasing credit limits requires 
a customer to have an offer on their account. Mr S account didnt have a credit limit increase 
offer and this is why the only way hed be able to use his credit card would be to make a 
payment to reduce his account balance.
Its clear that Mr S feels Nationwides approach here is unfair. Hes explained that he holds 
card with other providers, which have much higher credit limits. However, its ultimately up to 
each lender to determine how it assesses applications for credit. And its not for our service 
to tell Nationwide it should have offered a higher credit facility to Mr S. Overall, though I think 
the action Nationwide took here is consistent with a responsible lending approach. So it 
would be unfair for me to criticise that.
Did Nationwide make a mistake in reporting Mr S account status to credit reference 
agencies (CRAs)?
Mr S isnt happy that Nationwide reported his account status to CRAs. He says this has 
adversely affected his credit file. 
I can understand why Mr S would be upset by this but its important that financial businesses 
report accurate factual information about a customers account to CRAs. Guidelines issued 
by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) state that any data reported on a credit file 
must be fair, accurate, complete and up to date.  
In this case Nationwide reported that Mr S had exceeded his credit limit. As this is what 
happened I cant fairly conclude that Nationwide made an error in reporting on this account. 
It follows that I cant ask it to remove any information it reported. 
Finally, I can see that Nationwide offered Mr S £25 as a goodwill gesture to recognise any 
upset he was caused during the disputed transaction process. It also made a donation of 
£100 to a charity chosen by Mr S. Mr S seems to think this is an admission of error on the 
part of Nationwide. But it isnt unusual for businesses to make awards of this nature without 
accepting theyve made a mistake. And Ive already outlined my reasons in detail as to why 
Nationwide hasnt made an error here.
I realise Mr S will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Nationwide informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr S 
further on this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman