DRN-3018306
The complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society recorded a marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database.
What happened
Mr K says he was threatened by an individual and he had to allow that person access to his 
bank account at Nationwide. He wasnt responsible for any fraudulent activity. The marker is 
affecting his ability to get a full bank account elsewhere.
Nationwide said it received a report that money paid into Mr Ks account had been obtained 
through a scam. It was all quickly withdrawn through cash withdrawals and transfers to an 
account of Mr K at a different financial business. He had initially told it in April 2020 that he 
knew nothing about the transactions and was on holiday. When he later complained about 
the CIFAS marker he said he had been threatened and it told him he would need to go to the 
police about this but wouldnt be removing the marker.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that there was a 
high bar for adding a CIFAS marker, but he thought that the evidence supported the loading. 
Here there was fraud taking place and the issue was about Mr Ks involvement. Mr K had 
explained he had been threatened and provided copies of what he said were messages 
between him and the person who contacted him. On the face of it these were threatening but 
he noted the following inconsistencies and unusual aspects to this complaint:
- The fraudulently obtained payments of £2,500 each had been recorded as being 
received on 29 January 2020 and 3 February 2020. Mr K had received a payment of 
£198 on 27 January 2020 and two payments of £500 on 1 February 2020 he says 
from the person involved and knew his name. Mr K had transferred £10 of the first 
payment and £500 of the other payments to his account and the other £500 had 
been withdrawn. It would be unusual for the fraudster to pay money directly to him in 
this way which also risked that person being detected. And Mr K didnt seem to have 
told Nationwide about this.
- Mr K had said he transferred some of the fraudulent money to an account at a 
different financial business as he was told to and the fraudster had access to that too. 
Money was taken out from cash machines and as one payment of £900 was over the 
limit for that, Mr K says he went with the fraudster to do so at a branch having been 
threatened with a knife. It again was unusual for a fraudster to take this risk. And    
Mr K had also previously said he had been at home all that day with family.
- Mr K hadnt initially told Nationwide he had been threatened which was an 
inconsistency.
- The contact details for the numbers Mr K says were used by the fraudster were 
saved as unknown on his phone which was unusual as he knew the persons name.
- He understood what Mr K said about being threatened but thought it strange he 
hadnt contacted the police as Nationwide had said he should do.
Mr K didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that he would send 
pictures and as much proof of what happened as he could. He maintained that he had been 
threatened and explained the impact of what happened both on his mental health and on his 
future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has been given additional time to provide his information. He said he would do so a 
month ago having been contacted again by our investigator. Mr K hasnt done so, hasnt 
asked for any further time and hasnt given any reasons why he couldnt provide the 
information. So, I have decided it is now fair for me to look at this complaint based on the 
evidence and comments that I do have.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Nationwide 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Our investigator had given factual details about what happened with the payments as I 
summarised above. I need to decide whether Mr K was a witting participant in what 
happened and knew or reasonably ought to have known the money was fraudulent. If as he 
says he was coerced into allowing this to happen then Id take that into account in assessing 
his responsibility. 
I note in addition to what our investigator has said that Mr Ks account with Nationwide had 
then only recently been opened with the first entry on 21 January 2020. Mr K says he 
received money from the person who threatened him before the first fraudulent payment. 
And again, before the second one. Some of this money was transferred to Mr Ks other 
account. I see no reason for someone who was threatening him to pay him like this. And I 
havent seen the entries on his other account at the other business to show what happened 
to the money. Mr K says that this other business had recorded a CIFAS marker and then 
removed it. Im not looking at the actions of that business and which may relate to that 
money being second generation funds that had been moved on. But in any event I dont 
have evidence to support what he says about that.
Mr K also says that this person came to his house and he gave him his cards and details. He 
also says he accompanied him to a branch to take out £900. I agree with our investigator 
that this would have been very risky behaviour for that person who might have been 
detected. And Mr K then clearly knew him by sight, had contact numbers for him and there 
was a record of payments from an account that person operated. 
Mr K explains that the messages he has sent were screenshots taken at the time before the 
person called because hed said he was going to check these had been deleted from his 
phone. I agree that these are threatening in nature, but Im not able to verify when these 
were sent and by whom and if they were genuine.
I similarly note the inconsistencies in what Mr K has said. He has felt able to report all these 
details to this service but hasnt gone to the police. I dont have anything else to confirm what 
he had said to help me determine his role in what happened.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Im thinking about what is most likely. Im 
not persuaded on the evidence that Mr K wasnt a witting participant in what happened. He 
knew his account was being used to pay in this money and couldnt have reasonably thought 
that this was legitimate. There is a case to think that he had opened his account for this purpose and that he seemed to benefit from money sent to him in addition to the specific 
payments reported as fraudulent. He hasnt given a consistent account or reported this to the 
authorities. He unusually seemed to know a lot about the person he says was involved. It is 
possible that he originally agreed to get involved and that then when he showed reluctance 
was threatened. But I dont really have evidence to support that and this isnt what he says 
happened. I need to consider this complaint on what I do have. And Im afraid that I find that 
Mr K is reasonably responsible in these circumstances for what happened on this account.
Nationwide says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr K received fraudulent funds 
into his account. So, Ive looked at whether Nationwide was fair to apply the marker, based 
on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the 
business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set 
by CIFAS. This essentially means that Nationwide needs to have enough information to 
make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are 
reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere 
suspicion. 
Having reviewed Mr Ks account of events and the evidence  Nationwide has provided, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In 
coming to this view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr K received fraudulent funds into his account and didnt report this to Nationwide at 
the time.
- He allowed the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the benefit 
of this money.
- Nationwide had grounds to believe that Mr K had used fraudulently obtained funds 
based on the evidence it had.
As a result, I find that Nationwide had a reasonable basis to close his account and to register 
the CIFAS marker. I know Mr K will be very disappointed when I say that I wont be asking it 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman