DRN-3711730
The complaint
Mr S complains because AXA PPP Healthcare Limited (AXA) has refused to refund some of 
the premiums he paid for his private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S held a personal private medical insurance policy, which is insured by AXA. The policy 
renewed in February every year and Mr S paid for the policy by monthly premiums. 
Mr S was unhappy because he felt that during the Covid-19 pandemic, he hadnt been able 
to use his policy. He felt that therefore, AXA should reimburse some of the premiums hed 
paid.
AXA said Mr S policy could still have provided benefits to him, so it didnt agree to refund all 
of his premiums. But it said it would be reviewing the total value of claims paid over 2020 
and 2021, and if the value of these fell compared to 2019 because of the coronavirus crisis, 
it would pass any refunds due back to members by March 2022. AXA called this its 
customer promise. It also offered Mr S a discount of one months premium for the 2021-22 
policy year.
Mr S later received a letter from AXA which said he wasnt entitled to any rebate of his 
premium under the customer promise. So he got in touch with AXA, unhappy with its 
position. It noted that if Mr S hadnt already been given a premium discount, hed have been 
entitled to a rebate of £233.19 under the customer promise. It considered it hadnt properly 
explained to Mr S how the customer promise worked and so it decided to send Mr S the 
rebate amount he wouldve received, had it not been for the discount.
Remaining unhappy with AXAs position, Mr S asked us to look into his complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr S complaint should be upheld. He thought AXAs offer had 
been fair.
Mr S disagreed. He questioned how the rebate could have been fair compensation, when 
hed paid around £6000 for a service which he didnt and couldnt use.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr S, I think AXA has treated him fairly and Ill 
explain why. 
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr S complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of his contract with AXA as 
well as other relevant considerations such as the law and good industry practice. 
The terms and conditions of Mr S policy say his plan is for one year, and that monthly 
premiums must be paid for AXA to provide cover during that year. Insurance policies are 
intended to cover the risk of an uncertain event happening over the duration of the contract. 
An insurer is entitled to retain the benefit of the premium paid to cover the risk during that 
time, even if no successful claim has been made under the policy. AXA continued to provide 
insurance cover throughout the pandemic and following renewal in 2022. It appears that Mr 
S did need to make claims in May 2020 and May 2021. But even if he hadnt done so, AXA 
would have been entitled to retain the premium it charged to cover the risk of Mr S making a 
claim during the policy year. 
Ive borne in mind that Mr S says that when hes renewed his policy previously, AXAs 
waived two months of premiums on one occasion and one month of premium on another. 
But AXA is entitled to decide in what circumstances it is prepared to use its discretion to offer 
refunds or premium waivers. So I dont think this means its bound to refund all of the 
premiums Mr S paid during the pandemic. 
While Mr S considers that the policy didnt provide any services during this time, I dont think 
its accurate to say his policy was unusable. Depending on the type of medical treatment or 
services Mr S required, AXA could have pre-authorised treatment to be carried out at a later 
date. Mr S had access to AXAs clinical support services without any excess or outpatient 
benefit limits, as well as to its remote GP services. Mr S would also have been eligible to 
claim enhanced benefits if hed been hospitalised during that time. 
I wouldnt ordinarily expect an insurer to refund premiums if medical treatment or medical 
services were unavailable due to circumstances outside of its control because of, for 
example, the lack of availability of certain medical professionals. AXA doesnt own or 
operate the private facilities its members use and the requisitioning of insurer-approved 
private facilities for use by the NHS was something which was outside of AXAs control.
In line with its customer promise, AXA reviewed the value of claims made in 2020 and 2021. 
As the combined value of claims had fallen compared to 2019, it passed back the difference 
between the combined value of claims for that year, compared with 2019 to its customers 
through a rebate. It verified its calculations with an independent auditor. I dont think this was 
an unfair position for AXA to take. And AXA has set out a high-level summary of how such 
calculations were carried out.
Here, AXAs calculations showed that Mr S hadnt been entitled to any refund, as hed 
received a premium discount. But as it acknowledged the customer promise hadnt been 
properly explained to Mr S and so it agreed to pay him the rebate he wouldve been due, had 
he not received the premium discount. I think this was a very fair response from AXA in the 
circumstances.
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this case to 
require AXA to refund any premiums or to pay anything more to Mr S. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman