DRN-2734153
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) failed to renew his home insurance policy 
and as a result he was uninsured for a while.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr M called UKI as his insurance was due for renewal. He opted for the policy 
not to auto renew, but it wasnt explained to him that the renewal of his current policy 
wouldnt come into effect until he contacted UKI again. As a result his policy lapsed. Mr M 
then noticed that his premiums werent coming out of his bank account. He contacted UKI 
who advised him that as he had asked for the auto renewal to be cancelled, his policy hadnt 
renewed. It said it would renew the policy and backdate it to the date of renewal. Mr M 
wasnt satisfied with UKIs explanation and felt he was being blamed for its error. He was 
also very concerned that he had been uninsured for a while. UKI reviewed the matter and 
said that the consultant he spoke with should have informed him that the automatic renewal 
being switched off at the start of the call meant that this years policy wouldnt renew 
automatically. The representative should have gone further to confirm what had been done 
on the call and advised any further action required by Mr M in order to renew for the coming 
year. It paid him £40 compensation.
On referral to this service out investigator thought that UKI had acted reasonably and in 
accordance with its own guidelines.
Mr M wasnt happy and in particular questioned why the insurance had been backdated to 
the renewal date rather than the date the error was noticed. He also said the incident had 
caused him a lot of distress because he was concerned that he wasnt insured and may 
have had trouble making a a claim.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should set out here that we act as an alternative dispute resolution service. Our role is to 
resolve complaints informally. We dont act as the regulator for the business nor are our 
awards intended to punish the business. Our powers extend to considering fair and 
reasonable compensation for any errors or failures in service by the business. However I 
have no power to consider how UKI handled the complaint made by Mr M. So although I 
understand he was upset at the way the complaint was handled I cant consider that any 
further.
Mr Ms complaint was that when he rang up to renew his home policy, UKI failed to do that, 
as he had opted to remove the automatic renewal on the policy. This should have been 
explained to Mr M, as he clearly wanted to continue with the policy.
Fortunately Mr M noticed the premiums werent being collected and rang UKI who did then 
process the renewal. The policy was renewed back to its renewal date, in accordance with 
normal practice. I understand Mr M querying this but it is generally preferable for there not to 
be any gaps in insurance cover which Mr M might have had to explain if he got insurance 
elsewhere in the future. Whilst Mr M doubts whether UKI would have covered any claim in 
the interim period, all I can say is that general insurance practice, and our practice would be 
to require that the insurer covers any such claim. This is especially so where the consumer 
isnt at fault.
I can understand Mr Ms upset and his doubt that any claim would be covered. But as Ive 
said my role is to consider compensation for what happened rather than what might have 
happened.
My view is that the compensation paid of £40 is fair and reasonable to address the error 
made by UKI in this case. I understand Mr M was upset that he might not be insured but as 
no claim needed to be made and as UKI remedied the situation as soon as he contacted it, I 
dont propose to make any higher award.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman