DRN-4293961
The complaint
Miss T complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands) 
declining a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment of her dog.
References to Red Sands include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Miss T had a pet insurance policy with Red Sands for three dogs, which she took out in 
October 2018. In December 2022, one of the dogs had an issue with its neck and surgery 
was carried out to remove a growth. Miss T subsequently submitted a claim for the cost of 
the surgery (some £1,900). 
However, Red Sands declined the claim on the grounds they considered the clinical history 
of the dog indicated it had been used for breeding purposes. 
They noted the dog had been thought to be pregnant in February 2019, after which (when 
paying an unrelated claim) they issued a breeding warning in June 2019 as part of the 
remittance advice. The warning drew Miss Ts attention to the policy not covering dogs used 
for breeding purposes. There was also an exchange with Miss T at the time in which she 
confirmed to Red Sands the dog wouldnt be used for breeding.
The dog subsequently became pregnant in 2020, giving birth to four live puppies in October 
2020. The dog then became pregnant in 2021 (thought to be by one of the puppies born the 
previous year) but Miss T had the pregnancy aborted.
Unhappy at her claim being declined, Miss T complained to Red Sands. But they didnt 
uphold the complaint. In their final response they noted the claim accepted for treatment of 
the dog in 2019, and the breeding warning issued, saying they didnt cover pets used for 
breeding (referring to the policy terms and conditions stating this wasnt covered). Red 
Sands also referred to the clinical history of the dog, including the pregnancies in 2019, 2020 
and 2021. Given the clinical history (and the breeding warning issued in 2019) Red Sands 
confirmed decline of the claim. They also said they would be avoiding the policy from the 
most recent renewal date (October 2022) and would refund the premiums paid under the 
policy from that date. But they would retain the premiums paid before October 2022.
Miss T then complained to this service. She was unhappy at her claim being declined, after 
initially having been told they would accept it. She hadnt used the dog for breeding on three 
occasions, as the dog only had one litter (in 2020). After receiving a warning, the dog hadnt 
been used for breeding and the condition claimed for wasnt related to breeding. She was 
also unhappy Red Sands had avoided her policy. Miss T said shed been affected financially 
by owing her vet £1,900 for the surgery. And all three of her dogs were now uninsured. She 
wanted Red Sands to settle the claim and pay compensation for the stress shed suffered.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding Red Sands hadnt acted fairly and 
reasonably as the information provided by Red Sands wasnt sufficient to evidence the dog 
had been used for breeding. It was thought the dog was pregnant in 2019 (but a scan 
revealed no puppies). A litter was born in 2020, but the pregnancy in 2021 was aborted. The 
investigator didnt consider two pregnancies in four years (from the inception of the policy in 
2018) was sufficient evidence the dog was being used for breeding. The investigator thought 
Red Sands should reconsider the claim and, if valid, pay the claim in full (up to the policy 
limits) and interest from the date the claim should have been paid until it was paid. The 
investigator thought Miss T had suffered considerable distress from what happened, so Red 
Sands should pay her £500 in compensation.
Red Sands disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In disagreeing, they said the clinical history confirmed the dog had 
been pregnant on three occasions (2019, 2020 and 2021) and the latter two occasions 
followed the breeding warning issued in June 2019. The policy terms and conditions made it 
clear breeding wasnt covered under the policy (and Miss T had confirmed in 2019 the dog 
wouldnt be used for breeding).
In my findings I concluded Red Sands didnt act fairly or reasonably in applying the exclusion 
for used for breeding to decline Miss Ts claim. The policy didnt include a specific definition 
of the phrase used for breeding or breeding. In the absence of a definition of either term, I 
thought about a reasonable interpretation. I didnt think it would reasonably be held to 
include a dog falling pregnant and having a litter of puppies. Used for breeding could be 
interpreted to mean a pet being used to produce litters of puppies on a continuing basis on 
more than one occasion. In the circumstances of Miss T, I didnt think that was the case.
On the issue of the avoidance of Miss Ts policy, as I concluded it was reasonable for Miss T 
to have thought she wasnt using the dog for breeding, Red Sands acted unfairly in avoiding 
her policy.
To put things right, as I concluded Red Sands acted unfairly to decline Miss Ts claim for 
treatment of her dog, they should reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy (including any policy limits on the cost of treatment and policy excess 
as appropriate). If they settled the claim, they should pay interest on the amount settled, at a 
rate of 8% simple, from the date they would have settled to the claim to the date they settle 
the claim.
On the avoidance of Miss Ts policy, Red Sands should reinstate Miss Ts policy, subject to 
Miss T paying the appropriate premiums from the date of the avoidance. They should also 
remove any record of the avoidance from internal and external databases.
Ive also thought about what Miss T told us of the impact of what happened on her. Taking 
account of all the circumstances, I thought £500 compensation for distress and 
inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
Because I reached additional conclusions (about the avoidance of Miss Ts policy) to those 
of our investigator, I issued a provisional conclusion to provide both parties with the 
opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands have acted fairly towards Miss T. 
The key issue in Miss Ts complaint is whether Red Sands acted fairly in declining the claim 
for treatment of the dog. Shes also unhappy at Red Sands avoiding her policy. 
One the first issue, Red Sands view is that they correctly declined the claim, on the grounds 
the dogs clinical history indicated the dog had been used for breeding  something 
specifically excluded under the policy. Theyd also issued a warning to Miss T about the dog being used for breeding in 2019 (and shed said she wasnt using the dog for breeding). Miss 
T says she hasnt been using the dog for breeding, as it has only had one litter during the 
time shes had the policy. She also says she was told the claim would be covered. 
Ive first considered the pregnancy history of the dog, based on the clinical notes from the 
vet. The first point at which the dog was thought to be pregnant was February 2019. The 
clinical notes indicate the possibility and record ultrasound scans. However, two weeks after 
the scans theres a reference to:
re-scan with ML (double checked) no puppies seen in any view, would be 40th day 
today should be obvious to see, no concern for now.
This indicates the dog wasnt pregnant (although it was thought possible) and didnt give 
birth. However, given the possibility, it wasnt unreasonable for Red Sands to issue the 
breeding warning  and to ask Miss T to confirm she wasnt going to use the dog for 
breeding. 
The second pregnancy was the following year, where the clinical notes record four live 
puppies were born in October 2020 (one puppy was stillborn). 
The dog became pregnant again in November 2021 (thought to be by one of the puppies 
born the previous year). But Miss T elected to have the pregnancy aborted.    
This history indicates one suspected (but not actual) pregnancy and two pregnancies (one of 
which was aborted). This is consistent with what Miss T told us when making her complaint, 
that the dog had only one litter (in 2020).
Having established the clinical history of the dog, specifically concerning pregnancy, Ive 
then considered the grounds on which Red Sands declined Mis Ts claim  that the dog had 
been used for breeding. And this was the case after the issue of the breeding warning in 
June 2019 (and Miss T confirming the dog wouldnt be used for breeding). In their final 
response, Red Sands refer to the policy terms and conditions relating to use for breeding. 
These include the following General Exclusion:
What this policy doesnt cover:
Pets that arent covered:
We dont cover any pets used as or trained to be anything other than a domestic or 
household pet. This includes using them for breeding, hunting, or shooting of any 
kind.
Similar exclusions and wording also appear in the General Conditions and Vet Fees sections 
of the policy. 
Given these exclusions and wordings, the key issue is what is meant by the phrase used for 
breeding (or breeding). The policy document clarifies aspects such as use for breeding 
would include as part of a business or not. But having looked at all the references provided 
by Red Sands and the complete policy document, theres no specific definition of the phrase 
used for breeding or breeding (neither is included in the Definitions section of the policy).
In the absence of a definition of either term, Ive thought about what would be a reasonable 
interpretation or understanding. I dont think it would reasonably be held to include a dog 
falling pregnant (however caused) and having a litter of puppies. Used for breeding could be interpreted to mean a pet being used to produce litters of puppies on a continuing basis 
on more than one occasion (either for commercial gain or other purpose).
From what Ive seen, in the circumstances of Miss T, I dont think thats the case. As Ive 
noted above, the first suspected pregnancy turned out not to be the case. On the second 
occasion, a litter of four puppies was born. But in the third case, Miss T elected to have the 
pregnancy aborted. Which suggests it wasnt her intention for the dog to have a further litter, 
or that she was using the dog for breeding. Had that been her intention, I would have 
expected her to allow the dogs pregnancy to proceed to term.
In thinking about this issue, Ive also had regard to the general legal principle that ambiguity 
in a contract should be interpreted in favour of the party that didnt draft it. In this case, that 
would be Miss T. And given what Ive said about the terms used for breeding and breeding 
not being defined in the policy, then I think there is ambiguity in what those terms mean. 
That being the case, then I think its reasonable to conclude Miss T wouldnt have thought 
she was using her dog for breeding.
Having reached this conclusion, it follows Red Sands didnt act fairly or reasonably in 
applying the exclusion for used for breeding to decline Miss Ts claim. Particularly as it 
appears theyd previously accepted claims earlier in 2022 for the same (or similar) conditions 
as that claimed for in December 2022.
On the issue of the avoidance of Miss Ts policy, one of the General Conditions of the policy 
requires the policyholder to notify Red Sands if they are planning to use the pet for breeding. 
It goes on to say that failure to notify Red Sands may invalidate the policy. The wording of 
the breeding warning issued in 2019 also makes it clear that if Miss T were to plan to use her 
dog for breeding she should contact Red Sands. If Red sands were to subsequently find out 
the dog had been used for breeding the policy would be avoided and all premiums retained. 
In the event, Red Sands avoided the policy - and refunded the premiums paid - from the last 
renewal date in October 2022 (but retained the premiums before that date). However, as Ive 
concluded its reasonable for Miss T to have thought she wasnt using the dog for breeding, 
Red Sands acted unfairly in avoiding her policy.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what Red Sands needs to do to put 
things right.
As theyve unfairly declined her claim for treatment of her dog, they should reassess the 
claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any policy limits 
on the cost of treatment and policy excess as appropriate). If they settle the claim, they 
should pay interest on the amount settled, at a rate of 8% simple, from the date they would 
have settled to the claim to the date they settle the claim.
On the avoidance of Miss Ts policy, as Ive concluded theyve unfairly avoided the policy, 
they should reinstate Miss Ts policy, subject to Miss T paying the appropriate premiums 
from the date of the avoidance. They should also remove any record of the avoidance from 
internal and external databases.
Ive also thought about what Miss T has told us of the impact of what has happened on her. 
Shes been put into financial difficulties by the vets bill, and having been able to only make 
part payment, she says shes being threatened with recovery action by the vet for the unpaid 
bill. I can appreciate how stressful this will have been, alongside having her policy avoided 
and so being without cover for her dogs. Taking these and all the circumstances into 
account, I think £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience would be fair and 
reasonable.My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint. I 
intend to require Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(including any policy limits on the cost of treatment and policy excess as 
appropriate). If they settle the claim, they should pay interest on the amount settled, 
at a rate of 8% simple, from the date they would have settled to the claim to the date 
they settle the claim*.
reinstate Miss Ts policy, subject to Miss T paying the appropriate premiums from the 
date of the avoidance. They should also remove any record of the avoidance from 
internal and external databases.
Pay Miss T £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell them Miss T accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this 
they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited consider that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss T how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Miss T a certificate showing this if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Miss T responded to accept the provisional decision.
Red Sands responded to accept the provisional decision conclusion they should reassess 
Miss Ts claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (and 
apply interest from the date the claim should have been settled).
However, Red Sands didnt agree they should reinstate Miss Ts policy. They said Miss T 
was provided with a breeding warning notice in June 2019 (and confirmed her dog wouldnt 
be used for breeding). The policy assumptions were sent to Miss T when she took out the 
policy and at each subsequent renewal, where the policy schedule sets out the dog is not 
used for breeding. If this assumption wasnt correct, Miss T should have contacted them to 
say they planned to use the dog for breeding (or had bred). Red Sands would have told Miss 
T that if the dog was used for breeding (for any purpose) they wouldnt have provided cover 
for the dog, as this was a general exclusion (across all their policies). The exclusion wasnt 
limited to dogs used solely for breeding as a business, it applied regardless of the 
circumstances.
While they recognised the dog had one litter and one aborted pregnancy, they expected 
precautions to have been taken to avoid the dog becoming pregnant.
On the provisional decision conclusion about compensation for distress and inconvenience, 
Red Sands thought the provisional award too high and requested it be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Red Sands have acted fairly towards Miss T.Ive considered the points made by Red Sands, in particular those regarding the provisional 
decision conclusions on reinstatement of Miss Ts policy and on compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
On the reinstatement of Miss Ts policy, Ive considered the points made by Red Sands 
about the exclusion where dogs are used for breeding and the documentation theyve 
referred to (including the warning notice issued in June 2019). However, I considered the 
documentation (including the warning  notice and Miss Ts confirmation her dog wouldnt be 
used for breeding) when reaching my provisional decision. And it doesnt change my view 
about the absence of a policy definition of the phrase used for breeding or breeding, which 
creates ambiguity in the policy (the contract). Nor that, in the specific circumstances of this 
case, it was reasonable for Miss T to have thought she wasnt using the dog for breeding. 
On the point about Miss T should have taken precautions to avoid the dog becoming 
pregnant (in November 2021) I dont think this is relevant, as the pregnancy was 
subsequently aborted. So, the outcome was the same (no live litter) and consistent with Miss 
T not using the dog for breeding.
So, I havent changed my view on this point and my conclusion Red Sands acted unfairly in 
avoiding Miss Ts policy.
On the provisional decision conclusion about compensation for distress and inconvenience, I 
appreciate Red Sands believe the amount is too high, but they havent provided specific 
reasons why they believe it is too high. But I have considered the circumstances of the case 
again, and havent changed my view that £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. 
So, my provisional decision conclusions havent changed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint. I require 
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to:
reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(including any policy limits on the cost of treatment and policy excess as 
appropriate). If they settle the claim, they should pay interest on the amount settled, 
at a rate of 8% simple, from the date they would have settled to the claim to the date 
they settle the claim*.
reinstate Miss Ts policy, subject to Miss T paying the appropriate premiums from the 
date of the avoidance. They should also remove any record of the avoidance from 
internal and external databases.
Pay Miss T £500 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days 
of the date on which we tell them Miss T accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this 
they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*If Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited consider that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss T how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Miss T a certificate showing this if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman