DRN-3649783
The complaint
Mr G complains that Wise Payments Limited wont return £100 that he says he paid into one 
of their customers accounts as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In November 2021 Mr G made two 
payments, each for £50 from his own bank account into an account held with Wise. 
Shortly after making the payments Mr G contacted Wise and alleged that the payments had 
been made as the result of a purchase scam and he asked to be reimbursed. Wise advised 
that Mr G should report this to his own bank and the Police. Ultimately, they declined to offer 
a refund and so Mr G complained. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend that 
the complaint should be upheld. As he disagrees, Mr G has asked for an Ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied there were no failings by Wise when opening the account in question. They 
correctly followed their processes and there was nothing to suggest that the account might 
later be used in connection with a fraud or scam. 
There was also nothing unusual or suspicious in relation to the account activity (either prior 
to or soon after receiving Mr Gs payments) where Id have expected Wise to have 
intervened or done anything more. This is particularly the case given each of the two 
payments were for £50. 
Wise were correct to point out that a dispute of this nature ought to have been raised 
through the senders own bank. But in any case, Mr Gs money was spent from the account 
before he reported to Wise that there was a problem. As such Wise didnt miss an 
opportunity to recover his funds. 
Im sorry to hear Mr G lost the £100 he sent. But taking everything into consideration, there 
isnt any reasonable basis upon which I can require Wise to do more to resolve this 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman