DRN-1540497
Complaint
Mr P complains that ACF Car Finance Limited (ACF) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance to him when he bought a car in 2008. 
Background
The PPI that was sold to Mr P was a single premium policy. That means he had to borrow 
extra on top of the car loan to pay for the cover. He also had to pay interest on that premium. 
The loan was for four years and the PPI was for the same period. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Through his representatives, Mr 
P disagreed. He said that he wasnt made aware the PPI was optional and he felt pressured 
into buying the cover. He also said that he didnt know he could have cancelled the policy if 
he wanted to. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but Im afraid I havent upheld his complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
The parties are in agreement that this cover was sold during a meeting. I cant know what 
was said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive 
looked at what the parties told me about it. And Ive also considered the paperwork thats 
available from the time. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether ACF would have made it clear to Mr P that he could 
have turned the cover down if he wanted to. I appreciate Mr P feels he was pressured. But 
he hasnt told us specifically what happened to make him feel that way.  Pressure can be 
very subjective  so what one person thinks is pressure, another person may not. I think its 
most likely that the person selling the PPI may well have recommended the cover to Mr P. 
But on the evidence before me, I cant reasonably find he was pressured. 
As to whether he would have known the cover was optional, I can see that the paperwork 
made clear that there was a choice about taking PPI. And so I think its most likely that the 
person selling the cover also made that clear. 
The parties are also in agreement that ACF advised Mr P to buy this PPI policy. So that 
means it had to make sure the cover was suitable for his needs. To help me decide whether 
the cover was suitable, Ive looked at what Mr P told us about his personal circumstances at 
that time. And Ive also looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. I can see that if Mr P had to make a claim because he was unwell, he would have been 
covered for the entire length of the loan. If he was made redundant, his repayments would 
have been met for a year. Mr P told us that he had between three and six months full sick 
pay. So taking that into account, I think the policy would have potentially lasted for 
considerably longer than his full sick pay. 
Mr P told us that he had savings and family members to rely on if he ran into financial 
trouble. With the PPI policy, Mr P could have used his savings on his other essential 
expenditure at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time for him if he was out of 
work. And whilst I appreciate that it would have been the intention of his family members to 
help out if he ran into financial trouble, theres no guarantee that help would have been 
available as and when Mr P needed it. 
Mr P appears to have been in good health when he bought the cover. And I havent seen 
anything unusual about his wider circumstances that would have stopped him from making a 
successful claim if he needed to. 
In his PPI questionnaire, Mr P drew my attention to the refund he would have received if hed 
cancelled the policy early. Its seems unlikely that he would have received a pro rata refund if 
he had done so. But the evidence before me doesnt suggest that Mr P planned to buy a 
new car within that four year period. So I cant say this issue would have made the policy 
unsuitable. 
With all this in mind, I think the recommendation ACF made probably was a suitable one. 
Even so, ACF still had to give Mr P enough information about the cover so he could decide 
for himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. I accept its possible that ACF didnt tell Mr 
P everything it should have done. But Ive set out above how I think the PPI was suitable for 
him. And so it follows that I cant say further or better information about the policy would 
have caused Mr P to act differently. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr P, but Im afraid I havent upheld his complaint and I dont require 
ACF to take any further action in respect of it. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint about ACF Car Finance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman