DRN-2949472
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly increased the premiums on his 
car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M says he initially took out a car insurance policy with AXA in March 2018. He says the 
cost for the policy at this time was £309.18. The cover automatically renewed the following 
two years  he says in 2019 he paid £735.74 and in 2020 he paid £1,923.71. Mr M says he 
feels as those these increases are unfair and there doesnt appear to be any reason for the 
increases.
During this time, Mr M says that he went through a difficult time and sadly, his father passed 
away. He says he didnt notice how much he was paying in premiums because he was likely 
pre-occupied with family issues.
In order to settle this complaint, Mr M would like a refund in any overpayments hes made 
and compensation for the financial stress this situation has caused him.
AXA responded to Mr Ms complaint, but it didnt uphold it. It said its underwriters had 
checked the pricing of Mr Ms policy and confirmed there hadnt been any errors. It also 
explained a bit about how it prices policies and some of the factors it takes into account. Mr 
M was also told that the risk of theft for the car he insured had significantly increased which 
had impacted the cost of the premiums.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M, but he didnt uphold his complaint. He said that 
Mr M had been sent renewal emails to let him know how much the following annual premium 
would be. He also stated that he had checked how AXA had priced Mr Ms policy and that he 
found that it had been calculated correctly.
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators view. He says that given the large increase in 
premium, AXA should have sent him a letter to confirm how much it was quoting. And he still 
felt that the large increase in premium was unfair. He says hes done some research and 
found that the current quote AXA are providing him through a comparison website is much 
cheaper than what he paid in premium.
Because Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this 
decision will come as a disappointment to him, but Ill explain my reasons for this in more 
detail below.
Firstly, Ive seen a copy of the renewal emails that were sent to Mr M before his policy was 
due to renew. I can see that they clearly told him what the cost of the annual renewal would 
be, and just underneath the premium amount it suggests that Mr M checks the cover is right 
for him and asks him to consider shopping around to ensure he gets the best deal.
I appreciate Mr M feels that AXA shouldnt be sending this information in an email and it 
would be more appropriate by letter. But Mr M opened an online account, and so I dont think 
it was inappropriate of AXA to communicate with Mr M by email about the renewal. In any 
event, Mr M appears to have received the quotes as hes forwarded them to this service 
from his email account. Based on what Ive said, I find that AXA has communicated 
appropriately with Mr M about the renewal. 
This service isnt the industry regulator; thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). And 
the FCA doesnt currently regulate on the price insurers charge or the methods an insurer 
uses to calculate a price. 
It's normal for insurers to consider that different factors, pose a different risk for which they 
may charge a different premium. So, by AXA increasing Mr Ms premium doesn't in isolation 
mean it has treated him unfairly. 
Its not my role to say how much an insurer should charge, what factors it should assess, or 
how much risk to attach to each of those factors. Insurance is essentially an assessment of 
risk. And we generally take the view that, providing they treat people fairly, insurers are 
entitled to charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk. 
Insurers consider many factors when setting premiums. And each insurer will take its own 
approach as to how to do that. When deciding how much to charge for their policies insurers 
will make an assessment of how likely it is that their policyholders will make a claim and how 
much they might have to pay out for those. And each insurer will go about that in its own 
way. 
So, when deciding if an insurer has dealt with a consumer fairly, I look to see if its treated 
them the same as it would other consumers with similar circumstances. Ive looked at AXAs 
information about Ms premiums both before and after the renewal. And I've looked to see 
how those have changed. 
The information it has used to price Mr Ms policy is commercially sensitive so I can't share 
that with him. But I can see the premiums it charged took into account the change in risk to 
his car make and model, and these have resulted in the extra premium. While Mr M might 
find that unfair, it's not for me to tell AXA how it should rate these risks. Nor can I tell it to 
change the way it considers those risks. 
From looking at the information it has provided, I think AXA has treated Mr M in the same 
way that it would other customers in similar circumstances. 
There are some aspects of pricing we will look into further, depending on whats relevant in a 
particular complaint. This includes if the price is based on incorrect information, if consumers 
arent given clear information to make decisions with, or if a consumer doesnt have freedom 
to change insurers and choose what premium to pay. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest any of those circumstances apply to this complaint. The 
information it has used to price the policy appears to be correct, the information it has 
provided about the renewal quote is clear and Mr M is clearly aware that he has the freedom to change providers, because I understand that he has now taken out a new policy with a 
different insurer.
Mr M says that when he went and applied for the same policy, as a new customer, he was 
quoted much less. But based on what Ive seen, it doesnt look as though Mr M found a new 
quote through AXA directly. But even if he did, AXA has said that the risk element of his car 
has changed. So it could possibly generate a lower quote. 
As Ive said, different insurers will each make their own assessment of the risks theyre 
asked to cover. The fact that one insurer might rate a risk as being higher than another 
doesn't automatically mean that the insurer who charges a higher premium as a result has 
acted unfairly. So this doesnt lead me to find that AXA did anything wrong, or didnt treat Mr 
M in the same way it would its other customers. It follows that Im satisfied AXA increased Mr 
Ms premium in line with its internal guidance and I think its treated him fairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman