DRN-3369300
Complaint
Ms H is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC hasnt refunded multiple transactions from her 
account that she says were fraudulent.
Background
In June 2020, Ms H received three substantial payments from the Department for Work and 
Pensions. The total value of those three payments was just over £11,000. Ms H says that 
this money then left her account very quickly. She hasnt been able to pinpoint the specific 
transactions that she didnt make, and she told us that she has had memory problems in the 
past. However, she says that she wouldnt have spent such a large sum of money in such a 
short period of time.
She told us that shes had issues with over-spending in the past and asked Barclays to block 
any attempted gambling payments from her account back in 2019. Ms H said that Barclays 
shouldve been more supportive when she received such a large sum or offered her advice 
on what to do with the money. 
Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong and so it said it wouldnt refund her. Ms H 
disagreed with that and so she referred a complaint to this service. It was looked at by an 
Investigator who didnt uphold it. Ms H had told the investigator that her card hadnt been lost 
or stolen, she hadnt shared her PIN with anyone, and she hadnt allowed anyone else 
access to her online banking facility.
The Investigator said that, in view of that, it was difficult to see who couldve made the 
payments from the account other than Ms H. Overall, she concluded that it was likely the 
spending was authorised and so it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to not pay her a 
refund. Ms H disagreed with the Investigators opinion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the Investigator. Barclays can 
only hold Ms H liable for any payments out of her account if she authorised them. I cant 
know for certain what happened to the money that was paid into Ms Hs account  so I need 
to look at what was most likely to have happened.
Ms H told our Investigator that she didnt share her card, PIN or online banking details with 
anyone and so its difficult to see how a fraudster couldve been responsible for this 
spending.
Its also significant that the spending took place over an extended period  Id typically 
expect a fraudster who had gained access to someones bank account to withdraw as much 
money as possible. It would certainly be unusual for a fraudster to have taken Ms Hs card 
on multiple occasions made modest withdrawals and then returned the card to her 
afterwards. The risk of being detected when doing so would be too high, so I dont think the 
evidence suggests that these payments were made by an opportunistic fraudster. 
I know that Ms H says she didnt make these payments but its hard to see how they 
couldve been made by anyone other than her. So, while I cant know certain, I think its fair 
and reasonable for Barclays to hold her liable for these payments on the grounds that she 
authorised them.
I know Ms H says that Barclays shouldve been supportive of her when she received such a 
large amount of money into her account. However, it wasnt required to provide her with 
financial advice so I dont think its done anything wrong here. I have noted that Barclays has 
agreed to pay £100 in recognition of the way its handled things up until now and Ms H is 
free to accept that offer if she wants to do so.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman