DRN-2572779
The complaint
Mrs P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly advised her to invest £7,000 in a product 
which posed too much risk  in 2000. She also says that she shouldnt have been advised to 
take any risk with her money given her changing employment situation.
What happened
An investigator at this service did not believe there was sufficient evidence to uphold the 
complaint, noting:
Mrs P had some investment experience
She had nearly £100,000 in assets, £58,000 of which was in cash and a further 
£17,000 plus in a capital-protected bond due to mature the following year
This meant that less than 25% of her money would be in risk-based based as a result 
of this £7,000 investment
She was a homeowner with an annual income of more than £55,000
The advisor recorded that she was willing to take a moderate risk with this sum, 
agreeing that she was a balanced investor 
The recommended product was to be placed in a tax-efficient ISA
She retained the investment for seven years and received a 24.8% return
Mrs Ps representative did not agree, and said:
Mrs P had only had two previous investments (one with a capital guarantee) and both 
for less than five years; she had no experience of her capital significantly 
fluctuating/falling in value
The recommended fund was almost certainly high risk, with 100% exposure to 
European equities; indeed it was reclassified as such in 2005 and is now described 
as six out of seven on the risk scale
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and broadly for the same reasons.
It is obviously unfortunate that HSBC does not have any documentation concerning the 
make-up of the fund in 2000, and this undoubtedly hampers an assessment of how risky this 
product was. The funds name changed in 2001 and I dont think it is safe to assume it 
necessarily contained a similar mix of assets when it was eventually reclassified as high risk 
in 2005. It was classified as a medium risk product in 2000, at the time of advice, and Ive 
seen evidence to suggest this was not a fairly accurate description at the time.
I accept that Mrs P had very limited investment experience and Im not persuaded (after 
reading the Fact Find/Recommendations letter) that the advisor took sufficient steps to spell 
out the potential risks posed by this product. 
But, overall, I simply dont believe there is sufficient evidence to safely say that this was 
product was unsuitable given Mrs Ps circumstances, substantial income and assets and 
likely financial objectives.
If Mrs Ps income and/or assets had been significantly lower, or shed been recommended to 
invest a much larger sum, I probably would have taken a different view. But as this £7,000 
represented just 7% of her overall money and this investment still resulted in less than a 
quarter of her capital being at risk, I dont believe it was an unreasonable recommendation.
Finally, Ive seen no evidence to suggest Mrs Ps changed occupation warranted this advice 
unsuitable.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman