DRN-1807598
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy HDI Global Specialty SE has avoided his home insurance policy (that is, 
treated it as if it never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
Mr Fs policy was administered by another company but, since HDI was the underwriter, the 
complaint is against HDI.
What happened
Mr F took out a home insurance policy with HDI in November 2018. In July 2019 Mr F and 
his family moved out of their home because building works were due to start. Around ten 
days later, Mr Fs home was flooded. He tried to claim on his policy for the flood damage.
HDI declined Mr Fs claim, avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid. 
When Mr F complained to HDI, it said it wouldnt have carried on giving Mr F cover on his 
home if it had known he was moving out because building work was starting. It stood by its 
decision to cancel his policy from the date he moved out and decline his claim. 
Mr F then brought his complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it thought HDI had 
acted fairly in cancelling the policy. But she thought HDI should refund Mr F his premium 
from the date he moved out of his home until what wouldve been the policy expiry date. 
HDI hasnt responded to our investigators view. Mr F doesnt agree with it and has asked for 
an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold most aspects of Mr Fs complaint. I have, though, 
decided HDI should refund Mr F some of his policy premium, for reasons Ill explain. 
I know Mr F feels strongly about this complaint and so will be disappointed by my decision. 
But I hope the reasons Im about to give help him to understand why Ive reached the 
conclusions I have.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
CIDRA also says a failure by a consumer to comply with an insurers request to confirm or 
amend particulars previously given is capable of being a misrepresentation.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, as long as the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless and an insurer can show it wouldve at 
least offered the policy on different terms, its entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it wouldnt 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, this means it wont have to deal with any claims 
under it. 
Mr Fs policy was cancelled from 9 July 2019 because he didnt notify HDI he was moving 
out of his home to have building work done. HDI says it wouldnt have continued to offer    
Mr F cover if it had been notified. In essence what HDI has done is avoid Mr Fs policy (that 
is, treat it as if it never existed from the date he moved out) under the remedy available in 
CIDRA for misrepresentation. And this means its also saying there was no policy in place 
when Mr Fs claim arose and thats why its declining his claim.
From the policy documentation Ive got from when Mr F bought the policy, I can see HDI 
offered him insurance based on his home being his permanent residence and occupied day 
and night by his family members. His statement of insurance also said the longest period the 
home would be left unoccupied was 30 days and there was no building work in progress. 
Theres no doubt these statements were correct when Mr F took out the policy.
But Mr Fs statement of insurance also says under change in circumstances he must tell 
HDI if there are any changes in his circumstances. And examples of changes he should tell 
HDI about include structural alteration to his home and his home being unoccupied for more 
than 30 days.
And Mr Fs policy document, under the heading IMPORTANT INFORMATION, also says: 
You must tell us if you intend to carry out any building work or changes to your home, for 
example, an extension, loft or garage conversion or any structural alteration, before any 
work begins. Theres more detail on this later on in Mr Fs policy document as follows:
Changes in your circumstances: The terms of your policy and premium are based on the 
information youve given us. If any of it changes you should tell us.
Any changes to your policy are subject to your insurers agreement and may not be
Acceptable.
Below are some examples of changes you should tell us about. This list isnt exhaustive and,
if youre not sure, or want guidance on the effect your change may have on your policy, and
whether itll be acceptable to your insurer, ask our customer services team.
Please tell us as soon as possible if:
 Your home becomes unoccupied or unfurnished
 Your home is undergoing structural alteration, structural repair, restoration or
renovation
 Any of the information provided and recorded in your statement of insurance has
changed.Mr F didnt notify HDI he and his family were moving out of the home while building work 
was being done. The flood happened less than a fortnight after Mr F moved out. But it seems 
he didnt move back in until the work was completed a couple of months later (though Mr F 
says he was visiting the house daily and stayed overnight a few times).
HDI has given us its underwriting acceptance criteria where building work is in progress. For 
what are called mid-term policy adjustments, this shows that, if Mr F had notified it his home 
would be unoccupied for more than a month during the building work, it wouldnt have 
carried on offering him cover. Im satisfied that, by not notifying HDI of this, Mr F made a 
qualifying misrepresentation for the purposes of CIDRA.
I now need to consider if Mr Fs misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate. Ive seen no 
evidence Mr F knew this was a matter that was relevant to HDI as his insurer  nor have I 
seen any evidence he didnt care whether or not it was relevant. Mr F says he didnt notify 
HDI his home would be unoccupied because the actual works hadnt started. And hes also 
said he was visiting regularly. From the evidence I have, I dont think he acted deliberately or 
recklessly.
Under CIDRA, what this means is that Mr Fs misrepresentation was careless. And, in the 
facts of this case, what that in turn means is HDI is entitled to avoid Mr Fs policy (that is, 
treat it as if it never existed) from 9 July 2019 and so refuse to pay his claim for flood 
damage. But HDI must return Mr Fs premiums from 9 July 2019 until the policy wouldve 
ended had it stayed in place. 
In response to our investigators view on his complaint, Mr F questioned how the 
requirement to notify HDI of building work was a condition precedent to liability, given what 
he called the wider lack of materiality. But in looking at Mr Fs complaint, I must consider 
the law, his policy terms and conditions and our long-established approach to complaints of 
this type. Mr Fs question isnt relevant to those considerations. 
Mr F also says his home wasnt unoccupied according to HDIs own definition at the time of 
the flood. But Mr F and his family had moved out of their home  and it seems the building 
work was taking a couple of months. As Ive said, HDIs underwriting criteria show this is an 
insurance risk it wouldnt have accepted had it been notified. And I should also say HDIs 
response is a standard response from building insurers. This is because they expect 
contractors to have insurance cover for the work they perform (although I understand Mr Fs 
flood wasnt connected to the building work) and also the risks associated with a property 
being unoccupied are much greater than normal.
So these and Mr Fs other comments dont change my conclusions on this complaint. I think 
that allowing HDI to rely on CIDRA  which reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases  to avoid Mr Fs policy produces the fair and reasonable outcome 
in this complaint.
Putting things right
I direct HDI Global Speciality SE to refund Mr F his policy premium from the date it avoided 
his policy (which I understand was 9 July 2019) until the date the policy wouldve ended had 
it stayed in place (which I understand was 20 November 2019). HDI Global Specialty SE 
should pay interest on this refund at the rate of 8% per annum simple from 9 July 2019 to the 
date of payment. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, I think HDI Global Speciality SE treated Mr F fairly and 
reasonably in avoiding his policy and declining his claim and so I dont uphold this part of his 
complaint.
But I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part and direct HDI Global Speciality SE to refund Mr F his 
policy premium from the date it avoided his policy (which I understand was 9 July 2019) until 
the date the policy wouldve ended had it stayed in place (which I understand was 20 
November 2019). HDI Global Specialty SE should pay interest on this refund at the rate of 
8% per annum simple from 9 July 2019 to the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman