DRN-3168763
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy with the service provided by AWP P&C SA following a claim under her 
home emergency cover.  
  
What happened
In March 2020 Ms K contacted AWP because she was having problems with her boiler not 
heating. AWP arranged for an engineer to attend to the problem on 14th March, and Ms K 
was told it had been fixed. 
That same day Ms K noticed her boiler wasnt working again. She contacted AWP, and they 
advised the engineer was waiting for a quote for a part so that repairs could be completed. 
Ms K was surprised by this as she wasnt aware that any further work was outstanding.   
Ms K tried to contact AWP for an update but was told each time that the engineer was still 
waiting for the outstanding quote. In the meantime Ms K had no access to hot water or 
heating. On 20th March AWP advised that theyd received notification that Ms Ks boiler was 
beyond economical repair (BER). 
Ms K was unhappy about this as she wasnt given any indication by the first engineer that 
there were still issues with the boiler at the time of leaving her property. Ms K asked for 
another engineer to inspect her boiler. This engineer attended to Ms Ks boiler on 21 March, 
and it was fixed on the same day. 
Ms K complained to AWP about the level of service provided, including the delays in 
informing her about the outstanding part that was required, and the misinformation given 
about her boiler being BER. Ms K explained the difficulties shed experienced, including 
having no access to hot water and heating for six days, and the inconvenience in having to 
chase AWP each time for a response, only to be provided with incorrect information.
AWP responded to Ms Ks complaint on 17 April agreeing that the standard of service had 
fallen below what theyd expect. They explained the boiler required a printed circuit board 
replacement. In instances such as this, the boiler is likely to require further parts. The 
decision made by our engineer to deem your boiler beyond economical repair was based on 
the condition of the boiler at the time of our assistance. AWP offered Ms K £125 in 
recognition of their poor service, and the impact it had had on Ms K. 
Ms K was unhappy with this decision, and brought her complaint to this service for 
investigation. Ms K highlighted the frustration with having to chase AWP over several days, 
and being without hot water and heating while waiting for AWP to respond. Ms K also 
explained about the upset and stress caused when she was told her boiler was BER, and 
how it wasnt until a supervisor at AWP agreed to send another engineer that it was 
confirmed that the boiler could be fixed and wasnt BER. 
The investigator found that the compensation offered by AWP didnt go far enough in 
recognising the upset caused to Ms K. The investigator recommended AWP pay Ms K a 
further £75 for the poor service shed received, and the impact it had had on her. 
Ms K accepted the investigators findings. AWP didnt respond to the investigators findings. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators outcome on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
Ms K contacted AWP to report a problem, and several days later she was told her boiler was 
BER. Ms K was caused shock and upset by this, and asked for another engineer to come 
and inspect her boiler. The second engineer was able to fix the problem on the same day. 
Ms K had to make several calls before the issue was resolved. This added to what was 
already a stressful time for Ms K when she was without hot water and central heating. 
As the above is accepted, the dispute now relates to the award of compensation that should 
be paid in recognition of what went wrong, and the impact this had on Ms K.
The service provided by AWP fell below the standard wed expect. Ms K has provided a 
detailed account about the impact on her wellbeing as a result of not having access to 
heating and hot water over the days that the repair work wasnt completed when it ought to 
have been. This was a particularly challenging time as she was in her home without heating 
and hot water during the colder months, and concerned for her health given the spread of 
viruses at that time of year. 
I can see why Ms K wouldve been frustrated by the lack of clear diagnosis concerning the 
problems with her boiler and heating system. It took several days, and separate inspections 
with different outcomes, before the issue with Ms Ks boiler was resolved. This wouldve 
added to the inconvenience, and period of delay in sorting matters. 
Having considered these events, I think an additional payment of £75 is fair compensation to 
Ms K for the poor service received from AWP. I say this because it fairly reflects the level of 
inconvenience Ms K experienced by needing to call AWP a number of times, and the stress 
caused by the conflicting information she was provided with about her boiler.  
Putting things right
The investigator recommended AWP pay £75 in addition to the £125 already offered to 
recognise the impact on Ms K as a result of the poor service provided by AWP. 
I think this compensation is fair and in line with what I would direct in similar circumstances. 
I direct AWP to pay a total of £200 (less any compensation already paid) to Ms K in 
recognition of their poor service, and impact on Ms K.  
My final decision
For the reasons provided I uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman