DRN-2642589
The complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about how much Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) 
has offered him as the market value of his car following a claim on his motor insurance 
policy. Hes also unhappy with how his claim has been handled.
What happened
In June 2020 Mr S made a claim on his policy after an incident. His car was deemed to be a 
total loss.
Advantage offered Mr S what it said was the market value of the car, based on valuations 
from two trade guides. The valuations were: 
 Glasss market value manager - £3,810
 CAP market value manager - £3,510
Advantage offered the higher of these two figures, £3,810.
Mr S was unhappy with the amount Advantage offered as he said it didnt reflect the true 
market value of the car. He said it would cost him more to replace the car. He also said he 
didnt agree with Advantages decision to write off the car, and he felt Advantages engineer 
had put undue pressure on him to accept the offer.
Our investigator thought the valuation put on Mr Ss car by Advantage was fair. He explained 
that Advantage had received a repair quote in excess of the market value of the car. And he 
didnt think the engineer had put unreasonable pressure on Mr S to accept Advantages 
offer.
Mr S didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint. Let me explain why. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss insurance policy with Advantage say:
If your car is damaged or lost because of an accident, vandalism or malicious damage there 
are three ways your policy can help you get back on the road again. Your insurer will do one 
of the following:
 Pay for any necessary repairs
 Replace your car
 Pay the market value of your car immediately before the loss.
Its for the insurer to decide which option it will take. In this case, Advantage had obtained a 
repair estimate which exceeded the market value of the car. So I dont think its decision to 
pay Mr S the market value of the car, rather than to repair it, was unreasonable.
Advantages definition of market value is set out below: 
The cost of replacing your car in the United Kingdom at the time the loss or damage 
occurred with one of the same make, model, age and condition. This may not necessarily be 
the value you declared when the insurance was taken out. Your insurer may use 
publications such as Glass's Guide to assess the market value and will make any necessary 
allowances for the mileage and condition of your car and the circumstances in which you 
bought it.
We dont decide the market value of the car. But well look at whether the insurer has 
reached its offer in line with how it says it will in the policy, and see if we think its 
reasonable. To decide if an offers reasonable, well look at the valuations the insurers 
received from the main trade guides, and whether its offer is consistent with them. Trade 
guides give a better idea of valuation than adverts, as theyre based on actual sales at the 
time of an accident or loss. Adverts are less accurate as the sale price is often negotiated 
down from the advertised price.
 
Advantage has used two of the guides we would generally use  Glasss and CAP. Its sent 
us evidence of the valuations it took from the guides shortly after the incident. Weve also 
checked the guides Advantage used, and come up with broadly the same valuation figures 
as Advantage.
Advantage offered Mr S the greater of the two valuations from Glasss guide and CAP. So I 
dont think its offer is unreasonable. Its calculated its offer in line with how it says it will in the 
policy.
Mr S says he couldnt buy the same car for the amount Advantage has offered. Hes sent in 
some adverts which he says show this. But as Ive said, the actual market value is likely to 
be less than the advertised price. So I wouldnt rely on adverts to decide if the offer was fair.
Ive looked at the emails between Mr S and the engineer and I dont think the engineer was 
putting unreasonable pressure on Mr S. He simply advised him that he could accept the offer 
or to take his complaint to our service. Its for Mr S to bring his complaint to us  Advantage 
cant choose to do that for him.
Its not for me to decide the valuation of the car. I just need to look at whether Advantages 
offer is reasonable. And from everything Ive seen I think it is. So I dont think it would be fair 
to ask it to increase its offer.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2021.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman