DRN-3699362
The complaint
Mr B complains that  Shop Direct Finance Company Limited  trading as very (very) 
defaulted his account.
What happened
Mr B had an account with very. The limit was £1,325. His income was affected by the 
pandemic and he was placed on furlough. His account fell into arrears and he called very 
on 23 May 2020  when the arrears were £104.60. He couldnt make the next payment 
and then the arrears wouldve been £248.60. Very put his account on hold for 28 days 
while he considered his situation. In July 2020, very put his account on a further 28-day 
hold. On 31 October 2020, Mr B called very after theyd sent him a Notice of Default dated 
26 October 2020  the arrears were then £698.48. On the call, very agreed with Mr B that 
he would make six payments of £177.67. The first four payments were made  the fourth 
one being 6 February 2021. The payment due on 10 March 2021 wasnt paid as the direct 
debit was returned unpaid. On 8 April 2021, very sold the debt to a debt collection agency 
(DCA). The balance was then £1025.54.
Mr B complained. He said that very hadnt acted fairly. He hadnt received any notification 
from them about the bounced payment on 10 March 2021  and theyd sold the debt to a 
DCA without saying anything to him. He said that a default on his credit file would affect his 
job progression and he now cant get a mortgage because of the default.
Very said theyd acted reasonably. They said that before Mr Bs debt was transferred to the 
DCA, they made attempts to call him and sent text messages, without response. Mr B 
hadnt brought his account up to date and so they passed the debt to the DCA.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator said very acted reasonably. Very had 
explained the terms of the arrangement they put in place on 31 October 2020, and Mr B 
had missed a payment. And she thought that in the round, because very had placed Mr Bs 
account on hold from May 2020 until October 2020, very  acted fairly in defaulting his
account and passing it to a DCA.
Mr B didnt agree. He asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I then reached a provisional decision where I said:
In setting out my views, I invite both very and Mr B to comment on what I have to say. Im 
interested to learn from very about the specific detail of the communications they sent Mr B 
after the failed payment on 10 March 2021.
I first considered whether he shouldve been given a payment holiday under the FCAs 
pandemic support scheme.
In April 2020, The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) announced guidance to lenders in 
response to the effects on customers of the COVID-19 pandemic. All lenders, including 
very, had to put in place payment holidays on many credit agreements  to help 
customers who were affected. Customers could ask for a total of two payment holidays 
each of three months
 whereby payments could be suspended. Missed payments would not be reported to 
credit reference agencies, although interest would still be debited to the accounts. This 
support was provided by firms up to the end of October 2020.
The intention was to provide short term support  usually in cases where customers would 
be returning to work within a short period of time. And so  where a customers situation 
was that they were in longer term difficulty  usually evidenced by arrears, then payment 
holidays under this scheme werent normally agreed.
I considered whether Mr B shouldve been given a payment holiday on these terms  
because when he called very on 23 May 2020, he said he was due to return to work by 1 
June 2020. But I dont think he qualified for a payment holiday. I say that because when he 
called very, he was already in arrears. I listened to the call  Mr Bs job had changed, and 
he was taking a cut in overall income (as his bonuses were to be reduced). The income 
and expenditure he went through with verys call handler showed that even when he 
returned to work  his expenditure was more than his income. So  that meant that a 
payment holiday wasnt appropriate in his circumstances.
So  very agreed to a 28-day hold on his account, with no interest or charges. Mr B was to 
consider his situation and advise very. Very contacted Mr B again in July 2020 and it was 
clear on the call (which I also listened to) that Mr B wasnt ready to talk to very in any 
detail, so they put another hold on his account for another 28 days. It wouldve been 
helpful to both very and Mr B if he had engaged with very after that time, but I couldnt see 
he did. No payments were then received  and very sent Mr B a Notice of Default with the 
arrears at 698.48.
Mr B then called very on 31 October 2020 and I listened to that call. Mr B didnt want to 
complete a new income and expenditure form but told very he had returned to work  but 
was still struggling with his commitments. It was agreed that he would make six payments 
of £177.67, and the first one was paid on the call. Interest and charges were suspended. 
A direct debit was to be set up. The call handler advised Mr B that the arrangement would 
show as such on his credit file  but confirmed to Mr B that it wouldnt show as a default. 
She also said that the debt wouldnt be sold if Mr B made the payments hed agreed to.
Mr B then made the next three payments on 4 December 2020, 14 January 2021, and 6 
February 2021. But the payment on 10 March 2021 wasnt made - Mr B told us the direct
debit was bounced through lack of funds, but he only realised this later, in April 2021.
Mr B argues that if he knew what had happened, he couldve done something about it  
but he didnt get any notification from very. And then  on 8 April 2021 (according to the 
records Ive seen from very), the debt was sold to a DCA. Mr B says that was 
unreasonably quick.
I dont dispute that very were entitled to pass the debt to a DCA. I say this because theyd 
served a Notice of Default on Mr B in October 2020  and that remained in force until the 
arrears were paid off, and in March 2020  the arrears were still £303. And so  very 
followed their processes. But strictly following a procedure or process can lead to an unfair outcome for a customer in the individual circumstances of their situation. I think thats 
whats happened here.
I looked at the communications between very and Mr B following the failure of his payment 
on 10 March 2021. I looked at the contact logs provided by very. And (contrary to their final 
response), I couldnt see there were any letters, emails, calls or texts sent to Mr B after 10 
March 2021. There didnt appear to be any notification that the payment on 10 March 
2021 had failed. The last text was sent to Mr B on 8 March 2021  a reminder that the next 
payment was due. But  thats all, until very sent an email on 20 April 2021 - to say that the 
debt had been sold to a DCA. Very also told us that Mr Bs online statements were turned 
off and so paper statements were mailed to him. And the statement dated 20 March 2021 
showed no payment had been made  but I presume this wouldnt have been received by 
Mr B for a few days after that. And it was only then that he realised that the payment had 
failed  and the debt was sold to a DCA shortly afterwards.
We also asked very about what was sent to Mr B when the payment plan was set up on 31 
October 2020 - and it looks like nothing was sent to him. It wouldve been helpful it there 
had been a confirmation of the plan in writing.
As Ive said  very had the right to pass Mr Bs debt to a DCA  because of the arrears and 
the missed payment. But I do think it wouldve been reasonable to expect very to advise Mr 
B of the failed payment and the consequences of that  for example, if he didnt pay then 
the debt would be sold to a DCA. But  on the evidence Ive seen they didnt. But  as Ive 
said, I invite very to come forward with any evidence of communications with Mr B during 
that period.
So, my provisional decision is that very should remove the default from Mr Bs credit file. 
And bring back the debt from the DCA and agree a mutually agreeable repayment 
arrangement with Mr B.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr B agreed with what I said. Very didnt respond.
I now need to make a final decision.
(continued)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr B agreed and very didnt respond, Im not going to change from the provisional 
decision.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. uphold this complaint. And Shop Direct Finance Company
Limited trading as very must :
Remove the default from Mr Bs credit file.
Buy back the debt from the debt collection agency and agree a mutually 
acceptable repayment programme with Mr B.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman