DRN-3902573
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with HDI Global Specialty SE regarding the handling and 
settlement of their rental property building insurance claim.
Any experts or representatives used during the claim process by HDI will be referred to as 
HDI for ease.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M own a property that they rent out to tenants. The tenant contacted Mr and Mrs 
M to let them know that they had noticed cracks to the external walls of the building. They in 
turn advised HDI who appointed its experts to review the damage.
HDI reported back that vegetation (trees) needed to be removed as this was affecting the 
soil and therefore the foundations of the building. HDI said the policy doesnt cover the tree 
removal or associated costs only the repairs. It also said Mr and Mrs M had to take action to 
minimise any further loss.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept this. They said these costs should be covered as they would be 
by other similar policies on the market. As HDI wouldnt agree Mr and Mrs M brought their 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They said HDI was responsible and should pay for all 
the work regarding the vegetation (that is causing the subsidence) so the property could be 
repaired. In view of the distress and inconvenience HDI had caused Mr and Mrs M our 
investigator also said it should pay £250 as compensation for this.
HDI didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HDIs expert report said:
cause of damage
Based on the information detailed above, we are of the opinion that damage has occurred 
due to clay shrinkage subsidence. This has been caused by moisture extraction by roots 
altering the moisture content of the clay subsoil, resulting in volume changes, which in turn 
have affected the foundations.
So, it isnt in dispute that the vegetation is the cause of the subsidence.
The arboricultural assessment report recommended a practical vegetation management 
specification. It said:
This specification will assist in reducing the impact of the adjacent vegetation on soil 
moisture levels, thereby potentially stabilising foundations of the affected area of the 
building.
Where felling has been proposed, this will be on the basis that the vegetation in question 
would not respond well to a severe reduction in leaf area that would inevitably lead to decay, 
the development of potential hazards, and an annual or other on-going management 
commitment and cost.
If pruning is recommended, the specification will be designed to allow continual ease of re- 
pruning with a reasonable prospect of a reduction in soil water use.
Within its final response letter HDI said:
Your policy covers the cost of repairing the damage to the property as a result of the 
subsidence movement. It does not extend to mitigating the cause of the subsidence, in this 
case the cause of the damage has been identified as the large deciduous tree within your 
rear garden. The letter also says: in this instance the removal of the tree is possible.
HDI says it doesnt have to pay for the vegetation removal. In response to this Mr and Mrs M 
say standard home insurance policies would normally pay these costs and paying for the 
removal of the tree wouldnt be excluded.
I think if HDI could show evidence of making it clear to Mr and Mrs M when they bought the 
policy that it would act differently to other insurance providers in the market then Id have to 
consider whether HDI has to pay. However, Ive not seen evidence of either a suitable 
exclusion or details that show Mr and Mrs M were made aware that they were purchasing 
limited cover compared to a standard policy.
Even if HDI had a specific exclusion in the policy and was able to clearly show that it made 
Mr and Mrs M aware that they were purchasing limited subsidence cover Id still have to 
consider if the offer made in settlement of this claim was fair and reasonable. But Im not 
convinced leaving Mr and Mrs M with the bill to deal with the vegetation removal would be 
reasonable as its accepted as the reason for the claim.
HDI say the cost of removing the tree isnt damage its mitigation. So, it says it doesnt have 
to pay. HDI state Mr and Mrs M must remove the tree to minimise the loss and mitigate the 
damage. HDI conclude it isnt standard to pay for tree removal. It says, some Insurers make 
the commercial decision to cover the cost of tree removal as part of a claim.
This service sees quite a few subsidence cases. Based on the cases Ive seen I dont agree 
with HDI - insurers normally pay for the removal of the trees and vegetation. I dont think it is 
only some insurers, I think it is standard in the insurance market. So, I dont think HDI have 
said to Mr and Mrs M when they bought their policy that it wont pay for claims damage that 
other insurers would. I think it is accepted best practice in the market for insurers to deal with 
such claims. I think thats fair and reasonable.
The usual approach of this service in such claim situations is to say HDI need to undertake 
an effective and lasting repair. To do that it needs to start by making sure the cause of the 
damage (the trees and vegetation) have been removed as part of the claim settlement. 
When that has been concluded HDI can then move on to the claim parts it has already 
agreed to - repairing the subsidence damage to the property.In fairness Mr and Mrs M would prefer for HDI to underpin their property as a resolution to 
the subsidence damage. Based on the evidence provided by Mr and Mrs H Im not 
convinced its necessary in this case. On this HDI said We will not be making any 
recommendations to fund the cost of underpinning or the installation of a root barrier as we 
do not feel this is in the best interests of the property going forward and the removal of the 
cause of the damage is the most appropriate mitigation technique. I think this is fair 
comment based on the evidence.
I think a fair outcome here would be for HDI to cover the costs of all the necessary 
vegetation removal to stabilise the property. And then HDI should pay for the repairs to the 
property. HDI knows the cause of the subsidence and it needs to pay to remove that cause.
Theres no doubt that this has been stressful for Mr and Mrs M. Theyve pointed out that they 
would expect their policy to pay for the vegetation removal and I agree with them. HDI has 
caused them further stress and inconvenience beyond what you would normally expect 
following a claim. I think HDI should pay £250 for this.
Putting things right
Pay for the removal of vegetation and trees linked to the cause of the subsidence 
damage.
Pay for the repair work required to the property.
Pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require HDI Global Specialty SE to:
Pay for the removal of vegetation and trees linked to the cause of the subsidence 
damage.
Pay for the repair work required to the property.
Pay £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman