DRN-3695934
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) caused damage to their wall 
when drying out their home following an escape of water.
Mr and Mrs G had home insurance with Aviva in joint names. As Mr G brought the 
complaint, and for ease, Ill refer only to him throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr G made a claim under his home insurance policy following an escape of water from his 
loft which damaged the room below. Aviva accepted the claim and appointed contractors to 
start drying out Mr Gs home.
The contractors felt it necessary to strip plaster from a wall which was showing high moisture 
levels. Mr G said the wall wasnt up to current building standards and he didnt think it was a 
good idea to remove the plaster. Nevertheless, Avivas contractors started removing plaster.
It became apparent that the wall was cracked behind the plaster, and grouting in the tiles on 
the other side of the wall had also split in places. Mr G complained that Avivas use of power 
tools had caused the wall to crack.
Aviva looked into Mr Gs complaint, but it didnt agree it had done anything wrong. Aviva 
appointed a building company to assess the damage, which concluded that there was no 
evidence the wall was cracked during plaster removal. 
Mr G also appointed a building company, which said the plaster didnt need to be removed 
because the moisture reading was a false positive.
Both companies commented on the depth of the wall which no longer met buildings 
standards. Aviva also noted there was an unattached joist and soft filling materials between 
the wall and the ceiling joists.
Although Aviva didnt think it was responsible for the cracked walls, it offered to complete 
repairs using a different contract company. As Mr G didnt accept its offer, Aviva agreed to 
pay a cash settlement of £14,000 for the repair costs. It also offered £500 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Mr G didnt think Avivas offer was enough. He said £500 didnt address the fact that hed 
been unable to use part of his home for 18 months. And his own builder quoted more than 
£20,000 to complete the repairs. Mr G thought Aviva should cash settle the full cost of his 
own builder, so he brought the complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said Avivas offer was in line with the 
policy because Mr G declined its offer to complete the repairs. Our investigator also thought 
£500 compensation was enough because Mr Gs home hadnt been uninhabitable.
Mr G didnt agree. He remained of the view that Aviva had caused the damage so it should 
be responsible for fixing it, fully. He didnt think it was fair to apply the policy terms and 
conditions to the settlement because the damage was due to Avivas actions rather than an 
insured event. Mr G repeated that £500 compensation wasnt enough.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I realise this is not the outcome 
hed hoped for, but Ill explain my reasons.
Theres no dispute that the wall was slender and not up to current building standards. Mr G 
explained it was just within regulations when the loft conversion was done more than 20 
years before.
Plaster
 
The first issue of complaint is whether the plaster needed to be stripped from the wall. 
Avivas contractors took moisture readings and identified high moisture content. Therefore, 
the contractors concluded that the wall was wet due to the escape of water and decided to 
remove the plaster to allow for drying.
Mr Gs contractor says that type of wall is known for giving false positives for moisture, so 
additional tests shouldve been performed before stripping the plaster. Mr G said the water 
stains indicated the plaster didnt need to be removed.
Taking into consideration all expert evidence provided, Im persuaded that it was reasonable 
for Avivas contractors to strip the plaster. Thats because thered been an escape of water 
from the floor above the wall, so when the test returned high moisture readings, it was 
reasonable for the builders to conclude that the wall was saturated. I dont think it was wrong 
for the contractors to rely on the moisture readings in the circumstances of an escape of 
water, so its decision to strip the plaster to facilitate drying without carrying out further tests 
is also reasonable. 
Cracked wall
Mr Gs expert said the wall cracked because Avivas contractor used power tools to strip the 
plaster. Aviva didnt agree that there was any evidence to show it had caused the damage.
The cracks Ive seen on the photos provided are mainly where the walls and/or ceiling join. I 
note Avivas expert said this is where cracks often happen in buildings. The issue here is 
whether Mr G has shown that, on balance, Aviva caused the cracks and that the additional 
damage couldve been avoided.
Mr G told Aviva that the wall only just met building regulations for supporting the upper floor 
and he had concerns about its ability to withstand the stripping. But theres no evidence of 
what the wall was like before the plaster was stripped. 
When Aviva removed the plaster, the wall behind was cracked and Mr G said it was 
crumbling away. But that may have been the case anyway, given the overall concern Mr G 
had about the wall. Both experts concluded that the wall didnt meet current building standards for a supporting wall, and the photos show that gaps between the joists and wall 
were filled with soft building materials inappropriate for the purpose. 
Based on the evidence in both expert reports, I dont think its reasonable to assume that the 
damage was caused wholly or mainly because Aviva used power tools to strip the plaster. If 
the wall was built to support an upper floor, it would be reasonable to expect it to withstand 
the process of plaster removal. Therefore, the evidence persuades me that its more likely 
than not that the wall cracked due to its age and inherent weakness. I dont find that Aviva 
did anything wrong here.
Settlement offer
Even though Aviva didnt think it was responsible for the damage to Mr Gs wall, it offered to 
cover the repairs under the policy. Aviva offered to use a different company, but Mr G 
declined. So, Aviva offered to cash settle based on what it wouldve cost for repairs using its 
own contractors. Its offer was in line with the policy terms and conditions, but Mr G didnt 
think the terms of the policy should apply because he thought Aviva was responsible for the 
damage.
I understand the point Mr G is making, but I dont agree. The policy provides cover for the 
insured event, which is the escape of water. Mr Gs expert said the water didnt damage the 
wall, and I havent seen evidence that persuades me Aviva caused the damage. Therefore, 
the policy wouldnt provide cover for the wall repairs. 
As the evidence suggests that Avivas responsibility to Mr G under the policy is limited to the 
water damage, I see no reason for it to cash settle for the wall repairs based on Mr Gs 
builders costs. I consider its offer of £14,000 fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Compensation
Finally, Mr G said £500 compensation isnt enough for the time hes been unable to use the 
loft room. Aviva offered the compensation in recognition of the delays when the cracks in the 
wall were first discovered. However, it pointed out that further delays were due to Mr G 
obtaining quotes and appointing other companies to look into the matter. 
Claims such as this, where there is significant damage, will always take some time to settle. 
But I cant fairly hold Aviva responsible for all the delays. It offered to complete repairs or 
cash settle, but Mr G declined, so theres little more it couldve done in the circumstances.
I realise Mr Gs home will be in a state of disruption because of the water damage and 
ongoing issue of the wall, but as I dont think Aviva needed to offer any more than it already 
has, I cant reasonably hold it responsible for the length of time this matter has taken.
Overall, the evidence doesnt support Mr Gs complaint that Aviva caused the damage to his 
wall by stripping the plaster. Aviva has made an offer to repair or cash settle at £14,000, plus 
£500 compensation. I consider that fair and reasonable in the circumstances, so I wont be 
asking Aviva to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman