DRN-3225675
The complaint
Mr W complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2016, Mr W acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn). Mr W was required to make 59 monthly repayments 
of £220.33. The total repayable under the agreement was £12,999.47.
Mr W says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit search to assess Mr Ws 
creditworthiness and level of indebtedness. It also said that it checked Mr Ws recent bank 
statements to verify his income and that based on the checks it carried out, Mr W did not 
exceed its lending criteria.
Mr W fell into arrears on the agreement soon after, and consequently the car was recovered 
by Moneybarn in October 2016. Moneybarn terminated the conditional sale agreement and 
sold the car at auction, which has left Mr W now owing Moneybarn just under £10,000.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn ought to 
have realised the agreement wasnt affordable to Mr W.
Moneybarn didnt reply to our investigator and so the case has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
I note that Moneybarn verified Mr Ws income. However, it didnt ask Mr W about his 
expenditure. Although it says that it completed a credit check, this wont have indicated what 
Mr Ws regular living expenses were. Without knowing what Mr Ws regular committed 
expenditure was, Moneybarn wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the 
agreement was affordable or not. Not only that, Moneybarn had an opportunity to consider 
Mr Ws expenditure from the bank statements that he provided which covered the two 
months prior to his application for finance. 
Moneybarn only used the bank statements to verify Mr Ws income. However, it surely would 
have been prudent for Moneybarn to have looked at these in a little more detail as it would 
have given a reasonable picture of Mr Ws overall financial situation at the time. Im not 
satisfied therefore that Moneybarn completed proportionate checks. 
Mr Ws bank statements, which were seen by Moneybarn, show that he was struggling 
financially. There were at least ten direct debits which bounced for other credit commitments 
he had at the time. This includes payments that were due to the DVLA and his gym 
membership. Not only that, direct debits bounced on three payday loans on more than one 
occasion. So, not only was Mr W borrowing from a number of payday lenders at the time 
which likely indicated that he was struggling to pay existing commitments with disposable 
income, he wasnt able to make these payments sustainably. Additionally, Mr W was being 
charged for the bounced direct debits which was a further cost he had to repay. And the 
statements dont show that Mr W had enough credit in his account to comfortably afford the 
proposed repayments. 
Clearly Mr W wasnt in a position to afford the repayments towards the new agreement 
without financial difficulty or having to borrow further. Had Moneybarn completed 
proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered this too. It therefore didnt act 
fairly by approving the finance.
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, it should, in theory refund all 
the payments Mr W has made. However, I note that Mr W did have use of the car for around 
four months, so I think its fair he pays for that use. But Im not persuaded that monthly 
repayments of over £220 a month are a fair reflection of what fair usage would be. This is 
because a proportion of those repayments went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement, Mr 
Ws likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have been if 
he didnt have the car. In doing so, I think a fair amount Mr W should pay is £110 for each 
month he had use of the car. This means Moneybarn can only ask Mr W to repay a total of 
£440 (plus the £40 charge for damage it levied when it collected the car as this charge 
doesnt form part of this complaint). Anything Mr W has paid in excess of this amount should 
be treated as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ws complaint, Moneybarn should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay.
Refund all the payments Mr W has made, less £440 for fair usage, and the damage 
charge. 
oIf Mr W has paid more than this, Moneybarn should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. Or;
oIf Mr W has paid less than this figure, Moneybarn should arrange an 
affordable and sustainable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Once Moneybarn has received the amount, it should remove any adverse information 
recorded on Mr Ws credit file regarding the agreement.
If Moneybarn has sold the current outstanding debt on, it should take appropriate steps to 
ensure that the above direction is carried out. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Moneybarn No.1 Limited to put things right in the manner 
set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman