DRN-2802788
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc have declined a part of 
their subsidence claim in relation to the right rear conservatory under their home insurance 
policy.
Both parties have had representatives and specialist experts involved in their claims. But for 
ease Ill refer only to Mr and Mrs P and RSA throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P noticed crack damage at their home and after involving their own experts and 
being told this was subsidence damage, they contacted RSA to make a claim. RSA 
appointed experts to inspect and validate the claim. There were several areas of damage 
and RSA accepted most of these as covered under the policy. But, in relation to the right 
rear conservatory it said the survey carried out by Mr and Mrs P prior to purchase had 
confirmed this part of the property was suffering from cracking and a sloping floor so it 
wasnt covered under the claim. It said the damage was caused prior to the policy being in 
place. Mr and Mrs P didnt accept this and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said as the movement had carried on during the 
term of the policy, wed expect insurers to deal with damage caused during the term of the 
policy, even if the movement or damage started before the policy did. Our investigator said 
the pre purchase report referred to a worst case scenario involving structural repairs but said 
the property was generally satisfactory. He said Mr and Mrs P had got two surveys done and 
the second one didnt identify any significant issues or defects with the conservatory. He said 
it was unlikely both reports would miss significant damage. So, he said it wasnt clear that all 
the damage occurred before Mr and Mrs P took out the insurance with RSA.
RSA also made a point about the foundations for the conservatory being faulty construction 
and design so further exclusions would apply. Our investigator said no significant damage 
was noticed until 2015. He said RSA needed to deal with the claim. RSA offered £150 as 
compensation for the delays it had caused dealing with the claim. Our investigator said this 
was reasonable.
RSA didnt accept the view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
What I said in my recent provisional decision:
On reviewing the pre-purchase survey this said there was external cracking to the house. It 
said there was consolidation of the solid kitchen floor too. But it also said these issues 
appeared to be longstanding and non-progressive and the Likelihood of further significant 
movement seems remote. The report also mentioned that trees and vegetation was close 
by and regular pruning was advised. It said the repair of the kitchen floor was essential. It 
didnt make any specific points about the conservatory, but I accept this was purely the pre-
purchase survey.
Mr and Mrs P did have their own building survey report conducted too. This referred to some 
hairline cracking in the mortar joints. It explained this was due to differential thermal 
movement and is not of structural significance. It agreed with the pre-purchase survey that 
this appeared to be historic. With reference to the kitchen floor this said, The floor has 
obviously suffered from some form of structural failure. Turning to the conservatory this 
report said The floor slopes towards the rear right hand corner. There is a crack to the 
middle of the rear elevation wall. The report went on to say this was likely to be settlement 
rather than progressive structural failure. It went on to say Mr and Mrs P as a prudent 
purchaser will budget for a worst case scenario, i.e. that some structural repair work will be 
required. Rather like the pre-purchase report this survey said the precise condition couldnt 
be assessed until the space was empty of furniture and the floor was uncovered.
To highlight issues this report rated some of the problems with three asterisks to denote 
Defects that are serious and that need to be repaired/replaced or investigated urgently. It 
said this category included Suspect structural failure to the kitchen floor and the Uncertain 
condition of the conservatory floor. Im not sure what discussions took place between the 
experts and specialists when the claim damage was first checked. But I can understand why 
RSA didnt accept the claim for the rear right conservatory. I think this was reasonable. I 
dont know if any evidence was requested or shared that confirms what action was taken by 
Mr and Mrs P when they moved into the property. So, its unclear to me what the actual 
condition of the conservatory floor was when they moved in. Its clear that the more detailed 
survey Mr and Mrs P arranged showed some issues needed to be resolved. What I dont 
know is what was done to address these concerns at the point Mr and Mrs P took control of 
the property.
Im surprised there isnt more on the file about this point from both sides. As I think this is the 
fundamental issue. RSA in its final response did say it was excluding paying for the damage 
to the rear right conservatory. It said the survey prior to purchase had confirmed there was 
cracking and a sloping floor. RSA said it was notification to Mr and Mrs P that works were 
required. I think thats fair comment. Without more details about what did happen and what 
was done at the purchase completion I think RSA acted reasonably when it accepted the 
other damage but excluded the damage to the rear right conservatory.
RSA was clear that the policy exclusion under the subsidence section applied in this case. 
The wording said, Damage that started before this policy came into force. RSA said theres 
no other investigations it can carry out to show exactly when damage started and if/when it 
may have stopped. What it can say is the damage clearly commenced prior to policy 
inception and this is specifically noted in the policy document. Based on the details Ive 
seen I have to consider if what RSA has done is reasonable and fair. In the circumstances of 
this case I think it is.
I understand the point made by our investigator around RSA dealing with damage where 
there has already been damage and having to deal with all of it. And there are 
circumstances where I think that fairly applies. I think this is fair if a policyholder is 
completely unaware theres a problem and then suddenly damage appears. So even though 
damage may have been occurring over a period if we accept the policyholder would never 
have known then its quite likely wed ask insurers to pay. I dont think thats the case here. I 
think RSA are saying Mr and Mrs P had a survey that pointed out there were issues that they 
needed to deal with.
Theres been quite a bit of further debate about the foundations of the conservatory. But I get 
the feeling that was sort of an additional point made by RSA as it was already turning down 
this part of the claim. So, Im not sure I really need to make a finding on it. If I do need to 
make a finding on it my position is likely to be, theres nothing in the wording that suggests 
certain industry expert codes need to be applied to the foundations for a conservatory. I dont think these regulations apply to conservatories, so I wont apply them. What Id be 
interested in if I do need to make a finding is what proof was passed on, if any, to Mr and 
Mrs P at purchase in relation to the build, such as local building control. Were any 
certificates issued, can they get documentation to show it, etc. Although I note that it might 
be the structure didnt require any permission. Further Id be looking at a point made by Mr 
and Mrs P that the damage is below the foundations of and affecting the main house too. 
These are the areas Id be looking to be clear on. But as mentioned, I dont think this is the 
central point and I note in correspondence RSA said it hadnt been a reason for declining 
this part of the claim.
Theres often added difficulty in claims of this nature when it comes to removal of vegetation 
that isnt owned by the policyholder. RSA has accepted that it wasnt as proactive as it 
shouldve been in dealing with this. Because of this it has offered £150 as compensation for 
any distress and inconvenience this has caused. I think thats fair in the circumstances of 
this case.
Mr and Mrs P did suffer some costs themselves involving expert reports prior to making a 
claim. For the expert reports our investigator said he felt Mr and Mrs P wouldve always 
made the decision to get this done privately. When they did RSA was unaware of the claim 
and when it did get involved it agreed to pay for most of the damage. So, I dont think this 
independent report added anything specific to the claim. I dont think RSA needs to pay for it. 
There was also debate about the tree costs associated with the area affecting the rear right 
conservatory. As I dont think RSA has acted unreasonably in declining to pay for the 
conservatory it follows that I dont think it has to pay for removal of the Cypress tree roots 
linked to this damage either.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs P made several points. Ill bullet point the main factors:
They had two surveys done.
Their builders dug up the kitchen floor. The underfloor heating was removed, and the 
floor was taken down to the concrete. It was inspected and the builder determined that 
there wasn't a problem. Mr and Mrs P decided to not reinstall the underfloor heating but 
did have a damp-proof membrane installed. 
The conservatory floor is the same floor as it was when Mr and Mrs P moved in. The 
surveyors said nothing beyond the comments about the sloping floor. The flooring was 
retained and there was no reason to dig it up. 
Mr and Mrs P said there was no cracking. But then say there was, one slight hairline 
crack, probably less than 1  2mm which was likely caused by settlement. They said the 
crack was deemed inconsequential by the builders.
Mr and Mrs P said they took the experts word for it and didn't think there would be future 
subsidence issues.
Mr and Mrs P said all reasonable steps were taken.
Invoices showing trees were pruned in 2017 were provided.
The builder said when he revisited recently, and the conservatory walls has large cracks 
and theres a big slope towards the garden.
Based on Mr and Mrs P providing details from the time when they did own the property, I 
thought it was fair to pass this to RSA to review. It doesnt appear the parties discussed or 
reviewed this evidence originally as part of the claim.
RSA responded and its main points were:The conservatory foundations arent adequate and are clearly shallow. RSA also said the 
conservatory was excluded due to faulty design as NHBC guidelines hadnt been 
followed.
RSA maintained the damage was pre-existing as there was a crack to the middle of the 
rear elevation and the floor sloped.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the effort made by Mr and Mrs P to provide further evidence in relation to their 
actions at the time of purchase. This was helpful.
It seems that work was done to deal with issues regarding the kitchen floor.
But Im surprised that the comments from Mr and Mrs P and the builder seem to differ 
dramatically from what the survey report said about the conservatory. The survey report was 
carried out before they completed their purchase. The survey was clear that there was 
cracking, and the floor was sloping. The survey is the reason RSA turned down the claim 
and why I said RSA had acted reasonably in doing so.
But it appears that no action was taken at the point of purchase to resolve any issues that 
clearly existed with the conservatory floor or the wall cracking.
RSAs response hasnt added anything to the decision.
Based on the further details Ive I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman