DRN-2810197
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain about National House-Building Councils decision to decline a 
claim made under their property warranty.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr C have a Buildmark property warranty with National House-Building Council 
(NHBC) which covers their home.
These warranties provide cover in three sections. Some cover is provided during the building 
of the property. Then, in the first two years after completion, NHBC expect the builder to deal 
with any problems, but provide a resolution service if there is a dispute between the 
homeowner and the builder. And finally, NHBC provide a further 8 years of insurance to 
cover any serious problems with the property arising from a defect in the way it was built.
Mrs C and Mr C made a claim towards the end of the period of the warranty when they 
noticed cracking in the outside wall of their house.
NHBC carried out an inspection and concluded that the damage was merely cosmetic  and 
caused by weathering. And they declined the claim on that basis.
Mrs C and Mr C commissioned their own report from a qualified surveyor. He concluded that 
the cracking was a result of structural movement in the property. And he made a 
recommendation about the remedial work he thought was necessary.
Mrs C and Mr C provided that report to NHBC and made a complaint to them about their 
decision to decline the claim. NHBC didnt change their position and maintained that the 
decision to decline the claim was correct. So, Mrs C and Mr C brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought NHBC were wrong to decline the claim. He found 
the surveyors report more convincing than NHBCs own inspection report. He said NHBC 
should carry out the remedial work recommended by the surveyor  and pay Mrs C and 
Mr C the £350 it had cost them to commission the surveyors report.
NHBC disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
I agreed with our investigator that the complaint should be upheld. But because I thought it 
should be resolved in a different way, I issued a provisional decision. 
This gave both NHBC and Mrs and Mr C the opportunity to comment on my thinking and/or 
provide more information or evidence before I make my final decision.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The warranty says that in years 3-10, NHBC will pay the full cost of repairs to 
physical damage caused by a defect in any of certain parts of the property 
(including the walls).
A defect is essentially defined as a failure by the builder to meet NHBCs mandatory 
building requirements  as set out in the relevant guidance.
There are a number of caveats and exclusions set out in the warranty policy 
documents.
NHBC say they will not pay any claim where the cost of the required repairs is £1,000 
or less (indexed). This is referred to as the minimum claim value (MCV).
They also say they will not pay for repairs where the claim relates to:
 shrinkage, thermal movement or movement between different types of 
materials.
or
 cosmetic damage such as minor cracking, spalling or mortar erosion to 
brickwork, which does not impair the structural stability or watertightness of 
the home.
The original NHBC inspection report said the claim should be declined on the 
grounds of the latter exclusion (cosmetic damage). But it also said the likely cause of 
the cracking was thermal and/or moisture expansion of the brickwork.
NHBC have also said that the cost of the required repairs would not meet the MCV, 
even if it they were to accept (which they dont) that the damage is caused by a 
defect in the build.
Mrs C and Mr Cs surveyor measured the cracks at between 1.5mm and 4mm. He 
also noted a crack in the windowsill adjacent to the cracking in the brickwork. He said 
the brickwork was supported by a lintel above the integrated garages door  which is 
underneath the wall where the cracks have appeared. And he took measurements to 
show that this lintel wasnt level.
His conclusion was that the cracking was due to structural movement in the lintel 
above the garage door.
So, we have a difference of opinion between the two experts whove inspected the 
property about the cause of the cracking.
I cant resolve that difference of opinion one way or the other. We arent qualified 
experts and our service doesnt carry out independent inspections of buildings.
I can however try to pick my way through the warranty policy and the implications of 
its terms as they apply to this particular case.
I should start by saying I dont agree with the NHBC inspectors conclusion that the 
claim should be declined because the damage is cosmetic.As Mrs C and Mr Cs surveyor pointed out, the Building Research Establishment 
(BRE) has published guidance on cracking in buildings.
I dont think theres any dispute about the measurements taken by the surveyor 
which showed the cracks in Mrs C and Mr Cs house to be between 1.5mm and 
4mm.
The BRE guidance describes cracks between 1mm and 5mm as easily filled but 
requiring some external repointing to ensure weatherproofness.
The relevant exclusion in the warranty document (as quoted above) says NHBC dont 
cover cosmetic damage such as minor cracking which doesnt affect the stability or 
watertightness of the home (my emphasis).
It appears the cracking in Mrs C and Mr Cs home is wide enough  according to the 
BRE  to affect the watertightness of their home. So, I cant reasonably say that 
particular exclusion would apply in this case.
However, the NHBC inspection also said that the cracking was due to thermal 
shrinkage or movement  and theres another exclusion in the warranty which applies 
where that is the cause of any damage.
This conflicts with the surveyors report, which said the problem was structural 
movement  as shown by the fact the garage door lintel isnt level.
NHBC have pointed out that the lintel above the garage door doesnt support the 
brickwork and blockwork where the cracking has appeared. Theres a further steel 
lintel above the ceiling of the garage  and set back from the opening where the 
garage door is.
This may not have been apparent to the surveyor. He himself says in his report that 
he hasnt carried out a full building survey and hasnt inspected parts of the structure 
which were concealed, inaccessible or unexposed at the time of the inspection.
So, theres no real surprise he didnt realise that the ceiling of the garage masked 
from view the steel lintel which supports the crack-affected wall.
It seems to me then that the surveyors logic  which places the blame for the cracks 
on the non-level garage door lintel  falls away here.
That doesnt necessarily mean that the cracks are due to weathering and thermal 
movement, as NHBC suggest, but it certainly makes that more likely as the 
explanation for the cracking.
NHBC have also pointed out that the idea that there is structural movement causing 
the cracking isnt supported by any evidence of: movement on the gable wall to which 
the brickwork is attached; or other cracking or other indications of movement 
elsewhere on the exterior of the building; or any cracking inside (which one might 
expect if there were structural movement); or any sign of movement to the garage 
roof.
I should also say at this point that if there is structural movement in the property, that 
may not be due to any defect in the build. If, for example, it were due to subsidence 
around the property, NHBC most likely wouldnt be liable to cover the cost of repairs 
under the terms of the warranty.All of that said, Im not convinced as yet that the cause of the cracking has been 
definitively identified. And that being the case, Im minded to ask NHBC to inspect the 
property again. I think that should be done as soon as practicable  and at the latest 
within a month of my final decision on this case being accepted by Mrs C and Mr C.
If it remains the case that there are no other potential signs of structural movement  
more than two years after NHBCs original inspection  I think it would be safe to say 
that the cracking was caused by thermal movement and weathering rather than by 
any more serious underlying structural issues with the house.
I understand NHBCs arguments about the MCV. And I fully recognise that both the 
NHBC and the surveyor are basically in agreement about what needs to be done to 
remedy the situation.
Whatever the cause, both think the affected area needs to be re-pointed. And I 
believe NHBC agree with the surveyor that the cracked sill would also need repair or 
replacement.
I havent seen any detailed costings from NHBC to suggest all of that work  
including the sill  would come in at less than the MCV. It may be worth NHBC 
providing those costings now, in response to this provisional decision.
I think that will be irrelevant if the suggested further inspection confirms that there is 
no structural movement at the property and the cracking was in fact caused by 
thermal movement.
If that is the case, NHBC can rightly say that the relevant exclusion (for shrinkage, 
thermal movement etc.) in the warranty policy applies  and so wont be liable to pay 
out whatever the cost.
But that costing information may be useful to me if other information comes to light in 
response to this provisional decision  for example, from Mrs C and Mr C - which 
supports the argument that there is structural movement at the property.
Of course, if NHBCs further inspection shows that the cracking is caused by 
something other than thermal movement, I would expect them to consider the claim 
again in line with the terms of the warranty.
In summary, I said that for the reasons set out above, I was minded to ask NHBC to carry 
out a further inspection of the property.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mrs C and Mr C responded to my decision to say they were pleased to agree a further 
inspection, but disappointed that Id considered the damage might conceivably be shrinkage 
or thermal movement (as described in the exclusion set out in the policy).
They said it was unlikely the composite lintel under the window would have cracked due to 
shrinkage or thermal movement and that it was more likely this was a result of significant 
stress. 
They also referred to damage to the lintel above the garage door and to bowing of the door 
frame. Again, they think this cant be due to shrinkage, but must indicate more significant 
movement. And they included new photographs to show the building as it appears now  particularly around the area which is showing cracking etc.
NHBC responded to say they were happy to agree to a further inspection of the property to 
investigate the causes of the damage reported by Mrs C and Mr C. Theyve very helpfully, in 
my view, suggested having those investigations carried out by one of their structural 
engineers  who are independent of their claims handling function.
NHBC also provided me with detailed costings to show that if the required repairs are as 
they originally envisaged  i.e. essentially re-pointing and replacement of the composite sill  
that would fall below the MCV set out in the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked again the evidence we had before I made my provisional decision and Ive 
considered very carefully the comments NHBC and Mrs C and Mr C have provided in 
response to that provisional decision.
Having done so, I havent changed my mind. I think the fairest possible outcome here is for 
NHBC to re-inspect the property so that we might have some greater certainty about the 
cause(s) of the damage. 
I understand Mrs C and Mr Cs arguments about the damage to their house and why they 
think it isnt caused by shrinkage. And Im grateful for the further photographs they provided 
to show the cracking as it appears now.
But I think that was exactly why I thought NHBC should go back now and take another look 
at the property, to see whether the damage as it now presents itself indicates a more serious 
root cause.
Im very grateful to NHBC for agreeing to use a structural engineer to carry out the further 
investigations. Id also expect that engineer to fully engage with Mrs C and Mr Cs arguments 
about the damage as its now presenting itself. 
If he or she should decide that in their opinion the damage is due to shrinkage or thermal 
movement (as per the original NHBC inspection report), Id expect a thorough explanation to 
be provided to Mrs C and Mr C to justify that opinion.
I would also expect that the structural engineer is very clear about exactly what remedial 
works need to be carried out to repair the damage. Im mindful of the fact that the costings 
NHBC have provided to me very recently (which fall below the MCV) might change if the 
engineer identifies further work that might need to be done to rectify, for example, more 
recent damage.
To be clear, the planned investigation will need to answer two questions. One, is the 
damage caused by shrinkage, thermal movement or movement between different type of 
materials (and so excluded under the policy)? And, if not, two  exactly what work is 
necessary to repair the damage.
Putting things rightIn summary, NHBC should arrange a further inspection of the property, as soon as 
practically possible and convenient for Mrs C and Mr C (and at the latest not more than one 
month after the date on which Mrs C and Mr C accept this decision). 
That inspection should be carried out by an NHBC structural engineer, who must be 
prepared to engage with the evidence and arguments presented by Mrs C and Mr C and to 
comprehensively justify his or her conclusions.
NHBC should then re-assess the claim on the basis of the findings in the new inspection 
report. And if the claim is accepted, NHBC should also pay Mrs C and Mr C the £350 it cost 
them to obtain their own surveyors report.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint.
National House-Building Council must arrange a further inspection of the damage to Mrs C 
and Mr Cs property, by a structural engineer and within a month of the date Mrs C and Mr C 
accept this decision - and then re-assess Mrs C and Mr Cs claim on the basis of that 
inspections findings. 
If the claim is then accepted, they should also pay Mrs C and Mr C £350 to cover the cost of 
the surveyors report they commissioned.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman