DRN-3406911
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has unfairly put restrictions on her 
bank account due to concerns about a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Mrs C says Santander unfairly placed restrictions on her account three times 
between January 2020 and November 2020. She said she had little access to her 
account across this time, and wasnt kept updated.
Santander says it applied three restrictions on the account. 
o31 January 2020 until 11 February 2020. It wrote to her around this time to 
say it had put a temporary block on the account, and that the activity may be 
linked to a scam.
o22 July 2020 until 10 September 2020. This restriction was put in place after a 
family member raised concerns with Santander about transfers abroad.
o8 October 2020 until the account was closed shortly after. This restriction was 
put in place after another financial business raised concerns.
In November 2020 Santander wrote to Mrs C saying itd had concerns raised from 
various sources. And that when shed tried to make a large international transfer, 
shed been unable to provide supporting evidence to confirm the authenticity of the 
underlying property purchase. Mrs C since moved her banking to another business.
The complaint was brought to this Service and upheld by our Investigator. He said 
Santanders initial concerns were valid, but he felt it wasnt reasonable for it to 
continue restricting use of the account once shed attended a UK branch in August 
2020. So, he said it should compensate her for loss of use.
Santander said its concerns were not resolved in August 2020 after she attended a 
branch. And a further restriction was placed shortly after due to contact from another 
bank raising concerns about her actions. It also said Mrs C was still able to make 
withdrawals from her account and that her statements reflected she did this. It also 
said her direct debits were unaffected, so she still had use of her funds.
The Investigator didnt change his mind. He said the loss of use related to plans Mrs 
C had for the money abroad. As Santander didnt agree, the complaint was passed to 
me for an Ombudsmans decision.
I issued my provisional thoughts on 15 March 2022 explaining why I didnt intend on 
upholding the complaint. Ive included an extract of this below.
oSantander is obliged to consider the welfare of its customers. In this case it 
has had concerns raised to it by independent sources. For each of these 
concerns, it has completed an investigation and placed appropriate 
restrictions on the account. This is in line with what Id expect to see in the 
circumstances for the wellbeing and protection of its customers.
oI note the restrictions applied did not prevent Mrs C from being able to 
withdraw funds, and her direct debits were unaffected. So, Im satisfied the 
restrictions in question were reasonable in light of the concerns raised and 
not excessive.
oMrs Cs main concern appears to be about her intention to make international 
payments for a property abroad. Im satisfied Santanders decision to prevent 
these transfers was supported by evidence. It sought out evidence from Mrs 
C to validate the authenticity of the purchase, and the evidence wasnt 
available. So, in light of the what she was able to provide, I think Santander 
acted reasonably by maintaining the block as it did.
oMrs C has said she is not victim of any scam. And I can see how any 
restrictions would be frustrating with this belief in mind. But I wouldnt expect 
Santander to ignore concerns or potential warning signs raised to it just 
because its customer doesnt share the same concern.
oSo, Im not intending to uphold this complaint or direct Santander to do 
anything further.
Santander responded to say it had nothing to add. And we didnt hear back from Mrs C.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been provided with no new arguments or evidence to consider. So, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman