DRN-3166353
The complaint
Mr M complains Prestige Finance Limited lent irresponsibly and applied interest and charges 
unfairly on a secured loan.
What happened
At the start of 2008 Mr M held a secured loan with a loan provider. Mr M fell into financial 
difficulties.
In April 2008 Mr M applied for a loan with Prestige through a broker. He borrowed £11,270. 
This loan was used to pay his existing loan and cleared arrears with his main mortgage 
provider. The Prestige loan fell into arrears in May 2008 and has been in arrears since.
Mr M complained to Prestige about granting the loan and the interest and charges applied to 
the loan. He said he had paid back more than his loan amount, but his debt isnt reducing.
Prestige didnt support the complaint. It said the loan was agreed after it had assessed 
affordability. It also referred Mr M to his broker if he felt the loan had been mis-sold.
Regarding the loan balance, Prestige explained the loan had been in arrears since May 
2008. Because payments hadnt been maintained and interest not paid, the interest was 
added to the loan balance, increasing the loan balance, which attracted interest. Charges 
had also been applied during the loan term. Prestige said that some of the charges had been 
applied incorrectly and it removed £320 of charges.
Unhappy with the response, a complaint was referred to our service. 
Mr M explained how his situation has caused distress which has impacted him and his 
family. Theyve missed out on holidays and Christmas. Both him and his partner suffer with 
depression and he wants the situation to end.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He said Prestige had a responsibility at the time 
to complete a series of checks relevant to the circumstances, taking into account the loan 
details and the borrowers circumstances. He felt Prestige had fulfilled its responsibility. He 
also said that he couldnt see interest and charges had been applied incorrectly when 
referring to the terms of the credit agreement. In closing, he said he wouldnt be asking 
Prestige to do anything but that he expected Prestige to act appropriately and 
sympathetically to Mr Ms situation.
Mr M was unhappy with the investigators findings and asked that it be investigated again. 
He felt that Prestige took advantage of his situation and should have done more.
Our investigator considered the complaint again and issued a second opinion. He remained 
of the view that the Prestige hadnt done anything wrong in respect of lending and the 
charges and interest applied to the loan during its lifetime. Mr M disagreed and asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
In preparation of this case being referred to an ombudsman, a second investigator reviewed 
the readiness of the complaint and raised the issue of whether this complaint was one our 
service could consider. That is, whether it was referred to our Service in time. 
The complaint was referred to me, to issue a decision on whether our service can consider 
the merits of Mr Ms complaint. My decision was that we could consider the merits of Mr Ms 
complaint. So, the complaint has been referred to me to issue a decision on the merits of the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to Mr Ms complaint;
Mr M said Prestige lent irresponsibly when he took out a secured loan.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of the application.
Mr M felt the loan was given to him even though it was clear he couldnt afford it. He states 
that he was in the building trade with no steady work, and had social security helping him to 
pay the interest on his main mortgage for a period of low to no earnings. At no point during 
his application was he asked to produce payslips or proof of income, and he was given no 
advice about the arrears and what it could mean for him and his family. He felt that this was 
irresponsible lending.
This loan was taken out through a broker and therefore Prestige didnt provide advice about 
the suitability of the loan. But the guidance at the time required Prestige to demonstrate that 
before the loan was granted, it considered Mr Ms affordability to repay the loan. To do this, 
Prestige should have considered the information provided by Mr Ms broker. It could also 
conduct its own checks such as credit checks, whether the loan falls within its lending criteria 
and Mr Ms income.
Ive noted the following before the loan was granted:
Prestige was in touch with the broker and asked for a letter explaining the purpose of 
the loan and the reason for arrears on Mr Ms mortgage. This letter confirmed the 
purpose of the loan was to pay off his existing loan. It said the mortgage arrears were 
the result of unemployment at the end of 2006.
The application form asked Mr M to confirm his income and any arrears he had at the 
time, this was completed and signed by Mr M. This confirmed Mr M was a self-
employed labourer, earning £1,750 per month. His monthly mortgage payment was 
£299.
A property valuation was undertaken.
Prestige checked Mr Ms credit file. Im not persuaded there is anything on the credit 
file provided by Mr M and his broker that would have concerned Prestige. Because Mr M was applying for the loan to repay an existing loan and clear mortgage arrears, 
I would expect there to be evidence of debt on the credit file.
Mr M provided a self-certification letter stating he was a self-employed labourer 
earning £21,000 per annum. Prestige set out in its application process that it only 
needed a self-certification from applicants if they are earning up to £40,000. For 
earnings above this, they would need an accountants letter or copy of the accounts. 
So, Prestige werent required to take any more information from Mr M when he self-
certified.
I acknowledge Mr M said that he was told by Prestige he would need to stop the help he was 
getting from social security for his mortgage payments if he wanted to be accepted for the 
loan. Ive looked at the evidence provided at application and there is a letter from the Job 
Centre confirming it had stopped making payments towards Mr Ms mortgage due to his 
change in circumstances. The letter doesnt detail the change in circumstances but that 
payments stopped suggests his financial situation had improved. Due to the length of time 
that has passed there are no phone recordings available, but Ive seen the internal notes 
recorded by Prestige. So, whilst I acknowledge what Mr M said, it also appears he told 
Prestige in summary that he was off work from November 2006 until March 2007, it took a bit 
of time to get the money coming back in again and he recommenced payments to the 
mortgage company in May 2007. Says he wasnt aware at the time he could claim DSS 
assistance, so this was sorted out after he returned to work It paid him 5 months mortgage 
as this is what was owed to him. He told Prestige that this had ended, and he was back in 
work from March 2007. 
Prestige has denied it told Mr M that he would need to stop the social security payments. It 
has also shown me it wouldnt have lent if Mr M was on benefits, but Im persuaded that as it 
had evidence provided by way of Mr Ms broker that the benefits payment had stopped, and 
it was entitled to rely on the information Mr M supplied and told it. Finally, Mr M signed the 
declaration confirming that the loan repayments were affordable. And it was recommended 
he take advice about this. I can see he had a broker at the time. 
Having considered the evidence presented, Im persuaded Prestige undertook sufficient 
checks to demonstrate Mr Ms ability to repay the loan.
Mr M is unhappy with the amount of interest and charges applied to his loan and 
whether they have been applied fairly.
The interest rate was clearly set out in the documents signed by Mr M, as was the amount 
hed have to pay in total. Mr M was advised by a broker; it was the brokers role to ensure Mr 
M understood the terms of the loan.
Following Mr Ms complaint, Prestige reviewed the charges applied to Mr Ms loan. Its 
highlighted instances where it has overcharged Mr M for missed payments, which it has 
since credited him for. Taking this into account I have reviewed the other charges, as well as 
the explanation of charges within the credit agreement and tariff, Im not persuaded Prestige 
applied the charges during the lifetime of the loan unfairly.
Further, in November 2020, Prestige reviewed Mr Ms account and acknowledged his 
account required assistance to repay the loan. It took into account Mr Ms circumstances and 
applied a reduced interest rate and backdated this to January 2017. This reduction was not 
due to the interest being overcharged as I can see that the interest was charged at the 
agreed contractual rate. However, Prestige have identified that Mr M will need assistance to 
repay the debt owed. I also see it has asked Mr M to complete an income and expenditure 
form so it can discuss Mr Ms circumstances. Im satisfied Prestige has acted positively and sympathetically and has taken appropriate action. I am pleased to see that Prestige is 
assisting Mr M with the repayment of his loan.
Finally, I understand the impact this matter has had on Mr M and appreciate he has had a 
difficult time. However, I dont think Prestige, has acted unfairly or unreasonably so I wont 
be asking Prestige to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman