DRN-4294742
The complaint
Mrs S complains about ERGO Reiseversicherung AGs (ERGOs) delays in paying a claim 
under her travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs S made a claim under her travel insurance policy with ERGO in November 2022 and 
chased ERGO for a response several times. 
In January 2023, ERGO wrote to Mrs S and said her claim would be processed and paid 
within 7-10 working days. When this didnt happen, Mrs S brought her complaint to the 
attention of our service. ERGO wrote to Mrs S again in March 2023 and said her claim had 
now been paid. ERGO told Mrs S it was very busy and apologised for the delays shed 
experienced. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and recommended that ERGO 
should pay Mrs S £50 compensation for the trouble and upset it had caused her. 
Mrs S agreed with our investigators opinion. ERGO didnt respond. As no resolution was 
reached, Mrs Ss complaint was referred to me as the final stage in our process. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims promptly, provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder made a claim 
and provide appropriate information on its progress, and settle claims promptly once 
settlement terms are agreed. Ive taken these rules into account when making my decision 
about Mrs Ss complaint. 
An insurer is entitled to make reasonable enquiries to satisfy itself that a claim is covered 
under a policy before making a payment, and making an insurance claim inevitably involves 
an element of inconvenience for a policyholder. However, ERGO didnt handle this claim as 
Id have expected it to. 
I think the overall delay in this case from November 2022 to March 2023 was excessive and 
unreasonable. ERGO didnt respond to several of Mrs Ss requests for an update about the 
claim and, on one occasion when ERGO did respond, it asked for information which Mrs S 
had already provided. Mrs Ss claim wasnt paid in January 2023 when ERGO told her it 
would be, and it took a further two months after that for Mrs Ss claim to be paid. I also dont 
think the explanation about the reasons for the delay set out in ERGOs final response letter 
to Mrs S was particularly helpful. 
Im satisfied that Mrs S experienced distress and inconvenience because of how ERGO 
handled her claim, and I think a compensation payment of £50 would be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances to recognise the impact of the situation on Mrs S. 
Putting things right
ERGO Reiseversicherung AG needs to put things right by paying Mrs S £50 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
ERGO Reiseversicherung AG must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mrs S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the deadline date for settlement to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint about ERGO Reiseversicherung AG and I direct it to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman