DRN-4222389
The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money unfairly decided to default 
his account.
What happened
Mr M raised a complaint about irresponsible lending which he referred to this service. A final 
decision was issued dated 23 November 2022 upholding the complaint. Mr M says that part 
of the resolution was for Virgin Money to agree an affordable repayment plan with him in 
regard to his outstanding debt. Mr M says this didnt happen and instead Virgin Money 
decided to default his account. He says he is currently off work due to stress and that as he 
works in the financial sector a default will impact his employment.
Virgin Money issued a final response to Mr Ms complaint in April 2023. It said that it had 
complied with the decision from the Financial Ombudsman Service issued in November 
2023. It said that the direction regarding Mr Ms credit file was to remove the adverse 
information once the balance had been cleared which hadnt happened. It said that it had 
applied a hold to Mr Ms account while his previous complaint was being investigated and 
this would be removed. It said Mr M was making token payments towards his account and 
the Financial Conduct Authority guidance was that it should default customers in this 
situation and report this to the credit reference agencies.  
Mr M didnt agree with Virgin Moneys response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that Virgin Money was required to 
record accurate information with the credit reference agencies. He said that it had held off 
any reporting until after the previous final decision had been issued by this service. He noted 
that a debt charity had put forward a repayment offer but that Virgin Money had advised this 
wasnt sufficient. He didnt think that Virgin Money had done anything wrong in regard to the 
actions it had taken.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that Virgin Money should have 
accepted his repayment plan and that other businesses had accepted the offers made 
through the debt charity he was working with and not applied defaults. He reiterated that the 
lending by Virgin Money was irresponsible and said it wasnt fair his account would be 
subject to a default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr M is upset that he was told his account could be defaulted even 
though a decision was issued by this service saying that the lending had been irresponsible. 
I also understand that this is particularly worrying for him given he works in the financial 
sector. But for me to uphold this complaint I would need to be satisfied that Virgin Money has 
done something wrong or treated Mr M unfairly.
As Mr M has already received a final decision regarding his previous complaint, I cannot 
comment any further on the issues covered by that decision. This decision is about whether 
Virgin Money did anything wrong by saying that Mr Ms account could be defaulted, and this 
reported to the credit reference agencies and the service Mr M has received while dealing 
with this issue. 
I note Mr Ms comment that other businesses have accepted his repayment offers and not 
defaulted his accounts, but I make my decision based on the specific circumstances of each 
complaint. This complaint is about the actions taken by Virgin Money and so I have 
considered the relevant rules and regulations alongside the evidence provided to assess 
whether Virgin Money has done anything wrong.
I appreciate Mr Ms comments about the lending being found to be irresponsible but, as 
there was still an outstanding balance on his account after the refund of interest and 
charges, Virgin Money wasnt required to remove any adverse information from Mr Ms credit 
file at that time (the direction from the previous decision was to remove the adverse 
information once the balance had been cleared). Mr M still had a balance to repay on his 
account and it is right that this will be reflected on his credit file. 
I can see that Virgin Money wrote to Mr Ms debt management company on 16 November 
2022 to say that based on the submitted income and expenditure information Mr M wasnt 
able to pay enough to set up a formal arrangement. It said that it wouldnt apply interest and 
charges due to Mr Ms financial difficulties and that Mr M would need to make his minimum 
contractual payments or arrears would accumulate and the account could be defaulted. 
Virgin Money has explained that a hold was placed on Mr Ms account while his previous 
complaint was being investigated but when this was lifted the default procedure continued. It 
wrote to Mr M in December 2022 and February 2023 to set out the arrears on his account. 
Given the arrears on Mr Ms account and noting the repayments that he is able to make, I do 
not find I can say that Virgin Money was wrong to take further action and for this to be 
reported to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr M also complained about the service he received in regard to this issue. Virgin Money 
upheld this part of his complaint and offered Mr M £75 compensation for the delay in 
responding to his emails and this new complaint being logged. Having considered the issues 
raised I find this compensation reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman