DRN-1600903
 
The complaint
Mrs M complains that U K Insurance Limited ("UKI") has poorly handled a claim she made 
under her car insurance policy. Mrs M has been represented in bringing this complaint to our 
service. So any reference I make to her includes that of her representatives.
What happened
In July 2019 Mrs M was involved in a collision while driving. Soon after she contacted her 
insurer, UKI, to let it know of the accident.
Within several hours Mrs M says she was contacted separately by a "no win, no fee" 
solicitor's firm and engaged with it in relation to a personal injury claim. She says she was 
mis-led into believing it was acting as a representative of UKI, but later discovered it wasn't. 
So she complained to UKI, saying one of its representatives must have passed on her 
details.
Mrs M complained about UKI's investigation into these concerns and accused a staff 
member of trying to prevent her from making an official complaint. Mrs M also raised 
concerns about the service provided by the hire car company.
UKI said it had never had any involvement with the solicitors firm in question. But said it 
would reconsider this matter if Mrs M requested a subject access request ("SAR") from the 
company involved which showed anything to the contrary. UKI disagreed it had hidden 
anything within its complaint handling or treated her unfairly but said it could've 
recommended a SAR request earlier than it did.
UKI accepted Mrs M's insurance claim and it was settled as non-fault. It provided an initial 
valuation for her vehicle at £3,800, later raising this by £100 in light of information provided. 
Mrs M said this wasn't a fair offer, especially taking into account she had recently had a new 
engine fitted.
Mrs M's vehicle was written off, but she requested to keep the salvage. When it was 
returned there was damage on the car that wasn't accident related. UKI agreed it was 
responsible and said it would waive its salvage fee of £570 as it wouldn't repair a written off 
car that it had paid the market value for. Mrs M complained UKI had made her liable for 
disposal costs as a result, so UKI offered to dispose of it for her which she declined.
UKI awarded Mrs M £300 in compensation overall for its mistakes. Mrs M wasn't happy so 
brought her complaint to our service. She reiterated her concerns, and explained the car was 
left on her driveway which she paid to have removed, leaving her further out of pocket.
One of our investigators looked into what happened. Ive summarised her findings below:
Our service can't make a finding on whether a data protection law had been 
breached and referred to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to make this 
determination. But based on the information our investigator had, she said there was 
nothing to show or indicate UKI had done anything wrong or hidden anything. And its 
staff had listened to concerns and suggested practical steps to establish the problem.
She was unable to investigate Mrs Ms concern that a manager said theyd note 
future calls to prevent the complaint escalating as this fell outside of our jurisdiction. 
She looked at motor valuation guides and said UKI's valuation was fair and above 
the average of the three shed considered. And she was satisfied it had considered 
the condition of Mrs Ms vehicle and relevant factors when reaching this figure. 
UKIs offer to waive the £570 salvage fee was fair and she didnt expect it to repair 
damage to a car it had written off and paid the market value for. She also said UKI 
had offered to take back the car when Mrs M said she was left to deal with the scrap 
of the car but she hadnt taken it up on its offer.
The investigator concluded UKI had made mistakes, but it seemed much of the 
distress was caused by the accident and issues that were outside of UKIs control. 
So she felt its offer of £300 alongside waiving the salvage fee was fair in the 
circumstances.
Mrs M disagreed, reiterating her points about the valuation and that she believed adverts 
would be used alongside the valuation tools. And the overall impact this claim and 
experience had on her and her partners lives. She provided a number of calls for the 
investigator to listen to from across the life of the claim.
The investigator reviewed everything provided. She said the phone calls didnt change her 
view, and that she didnt think the new engine would increase the value of the car in light of 
the relevant guides so she didnt expect UKI to offer any more. She also said she wouldnt 
expect UKI to tailor its valuation to around Mrs Ms location. And while Mrs M had said she 
incurred costs in relation to the salvage, shed never provided details or evidence of this.
The investigator looked again at the actions of the hire company, and discovered Mrs Ms 
interaction with this company was not as part of any cover under their policy. So she wasnt 
able to comment on its actions any further. Mrs M disagreed and said they felt the hire 
company had been working on behalf of UKI. So the complaint has been passed to me for 
an ombudsman's final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I'm not upholding this complaint. I'll explain why.
Mrs M has raised a number of complaints during the life of this claim. I've considered these 
in turn and in places grouped her concerns together. 
contact from third party solicitors and UKIs handling of concern
Mrs M has accused at least one member of UKIs staff as taking her details and giving these 
to a third party. This is a serious allegation and following its own investigation UKI has said 
theres no evidence to support this. And it has encouraged Mrs M to seek a SAR from the 
third-party solicitor to establish where it obtained her details from.UKI has said it will reconsider the matter if Mrs M obtains the SAR and this supports her 
allegation. But from what Ive seen, Mrs M hasnt done this. Nor has she provided anything 
of this nature following our investigators comments for reasons of her own. So, in the 
absence of any substantiating evidence, I dont consider it would be fair to conclude UKI has 
done anything wrong here. 
Mrs M has complained about the way UKI handled its investigation of these concerns. And 
its agreed in turn that it couldve been more empathetic in the way it handled this. But based 
on the evidence provided, Im satisfied UKI didnt provide any information to the third party. 
So I dont think it made a mistake, even if its handling of this couldve been better.
vehicle valuation and settlement 
In line with Mrs Ms policy, UKI accepted to cash settle the claim to market value of the car.
UKI has said it takes this market value from a number of motor guides which are based on 
actual sold units for the month of loss, with consideration to the vehicles mileage for the 
month of loss, the pre-accident condition, and the specific vehicle type, as well as any 
vehicle options that may be fitted to the vehicle.
Market value is defined in the policy as the cost of replacing your car with another of the 
same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
Our service doesn't value vehicles ourselves, instead we check whether the valuation the 
insurer has placed on a car is fair. 
When doing so we will typically consider the various recognised trade guides alongside any 
other evidence provided. Sometimes we are provided with adverts for similar cars on auction 
sites, but typically we'll put more weight on the trade guides as cars don't often sell for the 
advertised price  and are often priced to allow for negotiation.
Our investigator has already given details of the relevant trade guide prices so I won't repeat 
these. But simply the average of the trade guides came to £3,808. UKI has agreed to pay 
£3,900 which I'm satisfied is reasonable and in line with what I'd expect. So it follows that I 
think UKI's offer for settlement is fair  taking into account its condition and recent 
replacement parts.
Mrs M has said her issue is not about the value that UKI has given for the car, but instead 
that it doesnt meet the cost to replace their old vehicle to the same standard. And shes 
provided details of prices of cars in the local area and said she will need more to replace her 
car. This may well be the case, but Im satisfied UKI has offered her the market value for the 
car, as it's required to under the terms of the policy. So this doesn't change my mind. 
salvage and issues around this
Mrs M wanted her damaged vehicle returned to her after the incident. And UKI has agreed it 
damaged the vehicle while it was in its care. As a result it waived its standard £570 salvage 
fee, leaving Mrs M to do with the vehicle as she wished. I think this is reasonable given it 
had written the car off and paid the market value for it.Mrs M since said the vehicle was of no use to her, and she would need to pay to have this 
scrapped herself. UKI explained it could still collect the car and dispose of it for her, which 
seems reasonable to me and would resolve the issue she highlighted. But Mrs M has 
seemingly refused this offer. Im satisfied UKI has done everything it needs to in relation to 
this matter.
overall handling
UKI has acknowledged it hasnt provided the correct level of service to Mrs M. It has said 
"we agree the service you have received is not acceptable. I make no excuses for the lack of 
care and empathy that has been demonstrated by others and it gave reassurances it 
would be dealing with this internally.
So I have to consider whether UKIs offer of compensation, taking into account its actions 
and handling of the claim, is fair in the circumstances.
Mrs M has clearly been very impacted by this overall experience and Im sympathetic to her 
situation. However, I cant attribute all of whats happened to UKI. 
I say this as UKI wasnt responsible for the accident itself, nor am I persuaded that it had any 
involvement with the third-party solicitors. I also have explained why Im satisfied UKI has 
offered a fair settlement offer for the vehicle, and why its steps related to the damaged 
salvage was fair. 
Mrs M also raised some concerns about the car hire company I agree with our investigator 
that this company isnt connected to UKI for the reasons shes already given. However this 
issue appeared to stem from Mrs M saying she felt forced into agreeing to a vehicle 
valuation offer she later said was unfair. She subsequently complained about this issue and 
brought that complaint to our service. So it seems any impact of this conversation, even if it 
went exactly as Mrs M has described, is very limited.
UKI has said it wasnt as empathetic and didnt show as much care as it couldve and 
damaged Mrs Ms car after it was written off. But overall, including waiving its salvage fee, 
Im satisfied £300 is a fair and reasonable sum to account for these mistakes and lack of 
empathy within its handling. So Im not directing it to do anything further. 
My final decision
U K Insurance Limited has made an offer to pay £300. I conclude that such an offer is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is that U K Insurance Limited should 
pay Mrs M £300 if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 August 2020. 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman