DRN-1419082
The complaint
Mr S complains about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as 
Mercedes-Benz Finance (MBFS) have asked him to pay as a result of his vehicles late 
return.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr Ss car hire was due to end on 1 March 2019. Ive seen that in January 2019 the 
collection company arranged a collection with Mr S for that date.
Subsequently Mr S entered into discussions with MBFS about extending the lease or buying 
the car through a third party. 
Mr S contacted MBFS on 28 February 2019. Ive listened to that call as its now been 
provided by the business. Mr S was concerned that hed been given until 4 March to 
consider MBFSs offer to buy the car through a third party but that a company are pestering 
(him) to take the car tomorrow. Its clear that this company is MBFSs collection agent.
During that call the MBFS call handler tells Mr S the name of the collection company and 
offers to put him through to that company if Mr S doesnt believe they are authorised by 
MBFS to collect the car. Mr S refuses to be put through and questions whether MBFS should 
supply him with an official notice of collection. The call handler explains they dont do that.
Later in the call Mr S says that if the hire is extended to 4 March the collection company are 
threatening extra charges. So, I think its clear Mr S knew the collection was scheduled and 
that extra charges would be incurred if the car wasnt collected. I think sufficient information 
was given to him on that call for him to understand that the collection agent was authorised 
and that he refused an opportunity to speak with the collection agent to clarify that further.
So, when Mr S subsequently refused to allow the collection agent to collect the car I dont 
think MBFS were wrong to apply charges for a cancelled collection and extra hire and I dont 
think it would be fair to ask them to take any further action
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman