DRN-1489505
The complaint
Mr A complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC (T/A Barclaycard) handled his application 
for a credit card. He also complains about the service he received after his account had 
been opened.
What happened
Mr A applied to open a credit card account with Barclaycard. His application was approved 
and his card was opened on 15 May 2019. Mr A asked Barclaycard for a credit limit of 
around £5000 as he had wanted to transfer his balance from a credit card he held with a 
financial institution, which Ill refer to as N here. 
Barclaycard gave Mr A an initial credit limit of £200 and asked him to prove the income hed 
declared during the application process. Mr A provided income validation documents to 
Barclaycard. But, after reviewing this information, Barclaycard declined to increase Mr As 
credit limit from £200 to the amount hed requested. 
As Mr A wasnt given the credit limit hed applied for, he didnt activate or use his credit card. 
But, on 16 May 2019, Barclaycard completed a balance transfer in the sum of £180. Mr A 
wasnt aware of this. And, as he didnt know he had a balance on his Barclaycard account, 
he didnt make any payments towards it. So, Barclaycard registered late payment markers 
with Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Mr A was unhappy with this and complained about how Barclaycard had dealt with his 
application for a credit card and the service he received after his account was opened. 
Barclaycard investigated Mr A's complaint and upheld it. 
Barclaycard maintained its decision not to increase Mr As credit limit beyond £200 was 
correct and in line with its duty to lend responsibly. But it accepted there had been delays in 
it reaching that decision and verifying Mr As income documentation. So, it credited his 
account with £75 compensation to recognise that. 
Barclaycard also acknowledged it had made an error in processing his balance transfer in 
circumstances where he hadnt activated his credit card. It apologised for doing so and 
confirmed it had removed the late markers it had recorded with CRAs. To recognise the poor 
service Mr A had experienced, and to compensate him for the trouble and upset he was 
caused, Barclaycard credited his account with £123, which cancelled out the outstanding 
balance on his account. And it confirmed that it had closed Mr As account in line with his 
request.
Being dissatisfied with how Barclaycard had responded to his complaint Mr A referred it to 
our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided and thought, overall, that 
Barclaycard had dealt with Mr As complaint fairly. They were persuaded the compensation it 
had paid was fair and reasonable. So they didnt think it needed to do anything further. And 
they didnt recommend upholding this complaint. But Mr A didnt agree with our investigators 
view. So the matters been passed to me for a decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I can see Mr A's gone to some trouble 
to provide our service with some detailed submissions. I want to assure him that Ive read 
everything he has sent us. I hope he will understand if I dont address every comment hes 
made in this decision. I intend to concentrate on what I consider to be key to this complaint.
I can see that Mr A has raised some concerns about the adequacy of our investigators 
investigation into his complaint.  But Im satisfied our investigator has requested all the 
evidence Id have expected them to ask for from both Mr A and Barclaycard. I should also 
point out that Ive considered all of that information afresh before making a final decision. Id 
like to assure Mr A that the information I have is clear and I dont need any more to be able 
to reach a decision here.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr A experienced. I understand he feels very strongly 
about the issues raised in this complaint. Barclaycard has already accepted it was 
responsible for the errors it identified in how it dealt with Mr As application for a credit card 
account and the subsequent balance transfer it made to N on his behalf. 
I accept that Mr A was unaware Barclaycard had transferred £180 to N after approving his 
application to open a credit card account. And I can understand why he wouldnt have 
anticipated Barclaycard would proceed with a balance transfer in circumstances where it had 
only given him a very small proportion of the credit limit hed requested. I realise how much 
of a shock it must have been for Mr A to discover Barclaycard had transferred £180 to N. 
And I can understand how this caused distress and inconvenience.
Mr A said he was also caused distress and inconvenience by the correspondence he 
received from Barclaycard about his account, which was contradictory and confusing. He 
told our service he was assured hed received telephone calls which never materialised. And 
he also received text messages, which caused him upset. I can see why, overall, Mr A feels 
he experienced poor service from Barclaycard after he applied for a credit card account.
Barclaycard has already made a goodwill payment, which it says addresses the problems Mr 
A encountered. But he feels Barclaycards offer to resolve his complaint doesnt go far 
enough. So, the issue here is whether Barclaycard has acted fairly and reasonably in 
offering to put things right. In thinking about this, Ive considered things from both sides. 
Our service isnt here to punish businesses and, when deciding what potential compensation 
to award, we must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any business 
error and non-financial loss, including trouble and upset. 
In relation to financial loss I havent seen any evidence that Mr A has lost out as a result of 
what happened. Barclaycard told our service its rectified the adverse information it recorded 
with CRAs. I think this was a fair approach by Barclaycard given the error it made in 
transferring £180 to N without informing Mr A.
Mr A says the late payment markers Barclaycard applied severely impacted his credit file 
and caused applications for credit to be declined. I can see that our investigator asked Mr A 
to provide supporting evidence to demonstrate that the late payment markers were the sole 
reason applications for credit were declined. But this hasnt been forthcoming from Mr A. In the absence of the evidence our investigator asked Mr A to provide its not possible to 
draw the conclusion that applications for credit that Mr A made were declined because of the 
information Barclaycard had recorded on his credit file. And this means Im satisfied I dont 
need to ask it to compensate Mr A for any financial loss here.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss, there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions 
have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether 
compensation would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
In recognition of the poor service Mr A received Barclaycard credited his account with £75 
and made a further payment of £123, which cleared his credit card balance. It also closed 
his account in line with his request. 
Ive seen evidence that Barclaycard transferred £180 to Mr As account with N. He seems to 
think he didnt owe that money to Barclaycard. But Im satisfied, in paying these funds to N, 
Barclaycard reduced his outstanding balance with N. This was money Mr A would have had 
to have paid towards his balance with N had Barclaycard not paid it on his behalf.
I understand that Barclaycard isnt asking Mr A to repay this sum as part of its offer to 
resolve this complaint. So, Im satisfied Mr A is now in a better position than he was before 
he applied for a credit card with Barclaycard. I say this because he now owes less than he 
did before he took out his credit card with Barclaycard. 
Mr A told our service that the £180 Barclaycard paid to N shouldnt be considered to be 
compensation. Hes also said the same in relation to the £75 compensation Barclaycard 
credited his account with. I understand the point Mr A is making here. But I dont agree 
because hes had the benefit of the money that credited his accounts with Barclaycard and N 
in that his overall balance has been reduced.
I can understand why the issues affecting Mr A caused him great concern. Its clear he was 
affected by the issues hes complained about. But I think Barclaycard offered as much 
assistance as it was able to and took appropriate steps to put things right here.
Ive considered that the problems Mr A experienced meant he had to spend time contacting 
Barclaycard in attempts to resolve what had happened. Its only right that Barclaycard 
recognises this and Im satisfied that, by paying the compensation it has, its done that in a 
fair way thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that wouldve been caused 
here. 
Having thought very carefully about the impact all of this had on Mr A, Im satisfied that the 
compensation Barclaycard has already paid fairly recognises the impact its errors had in the 
overall circumstances of this complaint. 
I understand Mr A will be disappointed with this decision. But, for the reasons outlined 
above, Im satisfied Barclaycard has acted fairly in dealing with this complaint. So, it wouldnt 
be fair to ask it to do anymore. This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve his 
dispute with Barclaycard informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr A any further 
with this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman