DRN-3410054
The complaint
The estate of Mrs S complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) 
misadvised the late Mrs S in respect of her pension plan and the purchase of an annuity 
resulting in a much lower death benefit being paid than the £20-30,000 expected. The estate 
would like the full value paid.
What happened
Mrs S died in April 2021 and her husband, Mr S, was the sole beneficiary of her will. For 
ease I will refer to Mrs S and Mr S in this decision.
Mr S says following his wifes death he contacted Standard Life about her pension with it. He 
was surprised to be told no death benefits were payable other than a final annuity payment 
of around £1,011. This was the amount due since the last annual payment had been made 
in December 2020. Mr S says based on what his wife had told him he was the named 
beneficiary of her pension, which he felt was worth between £20-30,000. He wrote to 
Standard Life raising a number of queries. 
He asked why his wifes plan was an annuity and said he didnt believe his wife understood 
that the plan wouldnt pay out a greater lump sum on death. He questioned whether his wife 
had been given appropriate advice. Standard Life looked into the complaint but rejected it.
Standard Life said Mrs S had called it in November and December 2011 to arrange taking 
benefits from her plan. The available options had been discussed with her, but it hadnt 
provided her with any advice. It said it mentioned taking financial advice, but she declined. It 
said Mrs S decided to take her benefits in the form of a tax-free cash sum and an annual 
annuity, which was guaranteed for five years. 
Standard Life said dependents pensions had been discussed but Mrs S said she wasnt 
married to Mr S at the time and had no financial dependents. So, it wasnt possible to 
arrange a dependents annuity. It said documents confirming the arrangements were sent to 
Mrs S giving her 30 days to change her mind which hadnt been returned, so it could only 
assume she was satisfied with the terms offered.
It said that in response to a Financial Conduct Authority review it had contacted Mrs S for 
further details about her health status in 2018. And as a result, had increased the annuity by 
£1,258.36 to £2,931.42 a year and paid a one-off back payment of £8,808.52. It said after 
tax-free cash was paid, £35,060.71 had been used to purchase the annuity and that total 
income of £27,641.14 had been paid out on it. 
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. He said his wife had been in poor health and 
wouldnt have purchased an annuity if shed been aware of the death benefit position. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint, but he didnt uphold it. 
He said Standard Life had provided recordings of the telephone calls from November and 
December 2011. And he didnt think it had given Mrs S any advice and had confirmed it 
couldnt at the start of the calls. It provided her with the available options. He said initially 
Mrs S had just wanted to take the tax-free cash sum and no income. Standard Life said as 
her fund was below £50,000 in total it couldnt facilitate this option, and this was confirmed in 
the retirement pack it sent to her. 
Our investigator said Standard Life said if Mrs S wanted to take the tax-free cash an annuity 
would need to be set up with the remaining funds. He said annuity options including 
dependents pensions were discussed. And Mrs S had confirmed she wasnt married to Mr S 
and that he wasnt financially dependent on her, which meant the criteria for a dependents 
pension wasnt met. 
Our investigator said this was also confirmed in the retirement pack and that a complete 
summary of the benefits was sent to Mrs S on 10 December 2011. This confirmed what 
would happen if Mrs S died. He said he was satisfied Standard Life had paid what was 
agreed and hadnt misadvised Mrs S or withheld any information from her.
Mr S disagreed as he recollected both Mrs S and him signing documents nominating each 
other as beneficiaries of their pension plans. Our investigator said Standard Life had 
provided a copy of a nomination of beneficiary form Mrs S had completed for the original 
pension plan in 1999. This did nominate Mr S as beneficiary. But this plan had ended when 
the funds in it were paid out as tax-free cash and used to purchase the annuity. Mr S said he 
still didnt think his wife knew what she was agreeing to.
 
As Mr S doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr S, so Ill 
explain why.
I dont think Standard Life treated Mrs S unfairly or unreasonably. Ive listened to the two 
calls she made to it in November and December 2011. 
In the first call there is quite a long conversation where the Standard Life representative 
explained he could only discuss products offered by it and certain partners. And that he 
couldnt provide Mrs S with financial advice or recommend what she should do, saying:
Im not going to be able to tell you what you should or shouldnt do but I can give you 
a list of your options. 
Mrs S confirmed she wasnt using an independent financial adviser. And that she was happy 
to discuss things with Standard Life on the basis it wasnt providing her with advice, and she 
would be making any decisions for herself. It was explained that Standard Life couldnt offer 
a drawdown plan as the value of Mrs Ss plan was below its minimum. 
The operation of annuities, including guarantee periods and dependants pensions, is then 
discussed. It is explained that the existing pension plan would end if an annuity is 
purchased. Mrs S confirms she wanted the pension paid annually in arrears, with no 
increases, and no dependants pension, but with a five-year guarantee. The call is concluded 
with Mrs S to take her benefits on the 20 December 2011, which would be her sixtieth 
birthday. In the second call on 10 December 2011, Mrs S confirms she now wished to take her 
benefits immediately as the funds were needed for a new roof. The details are reconfirmed 
with her and a new quotation was issued the same day. The 30-day cancellation period is 
explained again.  
I dont think Standard Life provided advice during these calls. And I think Mrs S understood 
the options being discussed, what she had chosen and was then arranged for her. And I also 
think the documents she was sent subsequently clearly explained the arrangement being 
made and what would happen in the event of her death. 
At the start of the first call Mrs S said she wanted to take her tax-free cash but no income. 
The rules about how pension benefits could be taken changed considerably from 2015 
offering more flexibility than previously available. Before then the only alternative to 
arranging an annuity was a drawdown arrangement, where tax free cash could be taken with 
the remaining fund left invested. From which a variable income could be taken. The rules 
allowed the minimum income level to be set at zero. And depending on the performance of 
the investment its possible that a drawdown plan could offer higher death benefits than an 
annuity. 
Standard Life explained it didnt offer this option given the size of Mrs Ss pension fund. 
Other pension providers might have had lower limits, but I dont think Standard Life needed 
to suggest this to Mrs S as that could be seen as providing advice. Drawdown is considered 
to be a relatively high-risk arrangement compared to annuity purchase, which offers a 
guaranteed return. This, along with higher ongoing costs, makes it appropriate for larger 
funds and investors with a high-risk tolerance. And during the calls Mrs S expressed 
reservations about investment markets, mentioning how much money shed lost. 
It is possible to nominate anyone to receive the benefits of a pension plan on death and 
there doesnt need to be any financial relationship with the beneficiary. But for pension 
annuities paying an income for life, all options, like frequency of payment, guarantee periods 
and dependants pensions had to be selected at outset and couldnt be changed later. 
And HMRC rules set out who could be classed as a dependent. Legally married spouses or 
civil partners were automatically classed as dependents. But unmarried partners could only 
be classed as a dependant if there was financial dependence or interdependence. Mrs S 
confirmed there wasnt financial dependence with Mr S at the time and their subsequent 
marriage didnt change how the annuity had been set up. 
So, taking everything into account I dont think Standard Life has made any error here or 
treated Mrs S unfairly. I think she was aware of what was being arranged. And Standard Life 
appears to have made the payments due under the annuity that was arranged.      
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman