DRN-3813326
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a package bank account. 
What happened
Mr J told us he opened a Gold fee-paying package bank account around 2000 and the 
earliest evidence available shows that Mr J held the Gold account from at least September 
2001.
Mr J says he was told he had to take the Gold account if he wanted to keep his overdraft 
facility and this was the only reason he agreed to have it. While Mr J made use of some of 
the other benefits that came with the Gold account, he says he wouldnt have agreed to have 
the account if he was given the option to keep his previous free account with the overdraft.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Js complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.
As Mr J didnt agree this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has 
been provided, I dont think the Gold account was mis-sold to Mr J. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I 
must base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything 
that is available.
There is limited information available from the time Mr J took this account. Mr J tells us he 
was told he had to upgrade his account to a Gold account to keep his overdraft facility. I 
have considered what Mr J said but for me to uphold this complaint for this reason I would 
have to see persuasive evidence that this was the information Lloyds gave him, and I 
havent seen this. 
Lloyds says it advised Mr J to take the Gold account. So, it had to check the account was 
right for him.
At the time Mr J applied for the Gold account the main benefits were worldwide travel 
insurance, Sentinel card protection, extended warranty, and an interest free overdraft of up 
to £100. 
Mr J has already told us he wanted to keep his overdraft facility. So, I think its fair to say he 
would have found the interest free overdraft useful.
Mr J has also told us he travelled at least once each year so the travel insurance would also 
have been a useful benefit.
Mr J went on to register several mobile phones to the mobile phone insurance when it later 
became a benefit of the account, so I think Mr J was aware of the benefits that came with the 
account and overall found them to be useful.
I appreciate Mr J has said the cost of the account was high compared to what he could find 
the same benefits on the open market, and he didnt use all of the benefits that came with 
the account. But it wasnt Lloyds responsibility to compare alternative products for Mr J. It 
would have been for Mr J to consider whether the account offered good value for money and 
whether he could match the benefits for a lower cost elsewhere.
Package bank accounts are not tailored to the individual so Its not uncommon to find that 
customers are unable to make use of all the benefits that come with them. But as Ive said 
above, I think Mr J would have found some of the benefits that came with the Gold account 
useful so I think the recommendation to take the account was reasonable, and I dont think 
Lloyds mis-sold the account to him.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman