DRN-1892399
The complaint
Mr D complains that a car acquired with finance from PCF Bank Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr D was supplied with a car and entered into a finance agreement with PCF.
Within the first week, Mr D experienced issues with the warning lights. He took the car to his 
local garage who diagnosed an issue with the air conditioning. It also found that the engine 
was overheating and said the main engine fan wasnt working. It advised Mr D to take the 
car to a main dealer.
The main dealer looked at the car in late July 2019 and diagnosed a coolant fan fault which 
was causing the engine to overheat.
Mr D contacted the supplying dealer and confirmed the results of the diagnostic. The dealer 
disagreed with the diagnostic and said the fault could be fixed by replacing a switch, which it 
posted to Mr D.
Mr D continued to have intermittent issues with the car. In October 2019 the warning light 
illuminated indicating an engine temperature and oil pressure problem. The car went into 
limp mode and was recovered to a local garage, who diagnosed failure of the head gasket.
Mr D contacted the supplying dealer, who arranged for the car to be recovered. The dealer 
confirmed that the head gasket had failed but said it wasnt responsible for putting things 
right because Mr D had caused the damage by driving the car when it was overheating.
Mr D complained to PCF, who arranged for an independent inspection. Then inspection 
concluded that the head gasket had failed due to the car being driven when the engine was 
already damaged. It also said that whilst repairs had ben carried out o the fan resistor 
switch, the head gasket failure hadnt been caused by the original fault. Based on the 
findings of the report, PCF said it wasnt responsible.
Mr D wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She felt that the initial repairs were insufficient 
because the supplying dealer hadnt acted on the recommendations of the garage which had 
carried out the diagnostic.  She said the supplying dealer hadnt replaced the fan unit or 
carried out an inspection of the car itself to establish what repairs were needed. The 
investigator felt that the failure of the head gasket could have been contributed to by the 
initial fault and recommend that Mr D be allowed to reject the car.
PCF didnt agree. It said the supplying dealer had offered to inspect the car when the initial 
fault occurred, but Mr D wasnt willing to bring the car to the dealer. It also said the 
dealership disagreed that the fan was broken and felt the issue was more likely to be the 
switch, so it sent this part to Mr D. 
PCF said it wasnt responsible for the damage to the head gasket because the dealership 
had done everything it could to try and rectify the issue but Mr D had continued to drive the 
car in the knowledge that it was overheating.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because PCF supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such 
as, amongst other thigs, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a 
second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr D  to have a degree of wear and tear. So, I 
order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that there was an inherent fault 
with the car as opposed to issues caused by general wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, its 
presumed to have been present or developing at the point of sale unless the business can 
show otherwise. The busies is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. After 6 months the 
burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the fault was present at 
the point of supply.
Mr D and PCF disagree about whether the car had an inherent fault. Mr D says that the 
engine was overheating within the first week and that the attempt at repair failed. PCF says 
that the dealership sent the switch and offering to replace the fan if the switch didnt resolve 
the issue. It says Mr D continued to drive the car whilst it was overheating which led to the 
head gasket failing.
In order to decide whether the car was of satisfactory quality, I need to look at all the 
available evidence and decide, on the balance of probabilities, whether the car had an 
inherent fault.
Mr D took the car to two local garages within the first 2 weeks. Both garages diagnosed the 
engine overheating and said a new fan was needed. I can see that Mr D made the supplying 
dealer aware of what the local garages had recommended.
Theres a dispute as to whether Mr D refused to take the car to the supplying dealer. Mr D 
says the dealer disputed the findings of the local garage and said it would send the switch as 
it was easy to fit. PCF says that the dealer advised it that Mr D refused to bring the car back 
for repairs. 
Im unable to say which version of events is correct here. However, Im satisfied that under 
the relevant legislation, theres evidence of a fault which was causing the engine to overheat 
and because this fault occurred within the first week its presumed that the fault was present 
at the point of supply. So, it was the supplying dealers responsibility to put things right. 
The real issue here is not where the repairs were carried out, but whether those repairs were 
sufficient. I say this because there was a clear diagnosis from the local garage that the fan 
needed replacing. The supplying dealer has admitted that it disagreed with this diagnosis 
and only sent one of the two parts which the local garage had recommended needed 
replacement. I dont think the supplying dealer did enough here. It disputed the diagnosis without good 
reason. It should have arranged for the car to be independently inspected if it disputed the 
diagnostic carried out by the local garage, or it shouldve arranged for the car to be 
transported back to them for inspection and repair. 
Based on what Ive seen, the supplying dealer only facilitated a partial repair, because it only 
supplied some of the necessary replacement parts.
Ive thought about whether the failure to replace the fan led to the failure of the head gasket. 
In doing so, Ive taken the independent report into account. 
The report suggests drive on damage and concludes that the fault with the head gasket 
would not have been present at the point of supply. This conclusion appears to be based on 
the premise that the complaint about the engine overheating was made after the car had 
covered around 5,500 miles since the original diagnosis. Based on the information Ive seen, 
this isnt correct, because Mr D reported the engine overheating within the first week and this 
was confirmed by two local garages. On balance, Im persuaded that the engine was 
overheating at the point of supply.
The suggestion in the independent report is that Mr D exacerbated the underlying issue by 
continuing to drive the car. This service has asked Mr D to comment on this and hes 
explained that the car didnt regularly overheat after the switch had been replaced. And that 
he had no reason to contact the supplying dealer again. Im persuaded by Mr Ds testimony 
here. If the car had continued to overheat, I dont think Mr D wouldve hesitated to tell the 
supplying dealer, in the same way as he had done so before. On balance, I think its more 
likely that the initial repair masked the underlying fault for a few weeks.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im persuaded that there was a fault with the car at the point 
of supply which caused the engine to overheat. The attempt at repair wasnt sufficient in 
terms of the extent of the repair and I dont think the repair was successful because the 
engine overheated again leading to failure of the head gasket.
Putting things right
Taking into account the relevant legislation, I think the business had a reasonable 
opportunity to repair the fault. The repair wasnt sufficient, and it wasnt successful, so I think 
Mr D should now be allowed to reject the car. 
The car was collected by the supplying dealer in October 2019 and Mr D hasnt been able to 
drive it since, so Ill also be asking PCF to refund some monthly payments.
I can see that Mr D has been caused inconvenience here. Hes had to take the car to two 
different garages, and hes broken down.  Following the break down hes had to buy another 
car to use. I think he should be compensated for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. PCF Bank Limited must:End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr D
Refund any deposit paid by Mr D together with 8% simple interest per annum from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Refund all monthly payments made by Mr d since October 2019 together with 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman