DRN-3195367
Complaint
Mr H says that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly demanded the partial 
repayment of his overdraft within a few weeks when it decided to reduce his overdraft limit.
Mr H is being assisted in his complaint by his mother Mrs M.
  
Background and my provisional decision of 18 November 2021
On 23 December 2017, Nationwide wrote to Mr H explaining that it had reviewed the way   
Mr H had managed his account and others he may have had and had decided his overdraft 
limit was unsuitable for him. So it was going to reduce Mr Hs limit to £2,000.00 on                
2 February 2018 and Mr H needed to make sure that he paid enough funds into his account 
to bring his balance below his new arranged overdraft limit by 2 February 2018. Mr Hs 
existing overdraft limit was £4,000.00 and he was almost overdrawn to his limit at this stage.   
As Mr H was studying and didnt have an income at that point, he was unable to bring his 
balance below £2,000.00 in time. What followed is disputed by the parties. But what isnt in 
dispute is that Nationwide eventually accepted Mrs M had the authority to represent Mr H 
and a repayment plan was set up to bring the overdraft balance under £2,000.00. 
Mr H was to pay £60 a month and the overdraft would then reduce by around £10 a month. 
However, in February 2020, Nationwide reached the view the facility had become 
demonstrably unsustainable and began the process of defaulting the account.
Mrs M, on behalf of Mr H, complained. One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns 
and didnt think that Nationwide had done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. Mrs M 
disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.  
I issued a provisional decision  on 18 November 2021 - setting out why I intended to 
partially uphold Mr Hs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a 
summary of my findings. 
I started by saying that while I appreciated Mr H and Mrs M were unhappy with Nationwides 
decision to reduce Mr Hs overdraft limit and believe this was the reason for Mr Hs 
subsequent difficulties, a lender is required to monitor how an overdraft facility is used. And 
not only is a lender entitled to take corrective action in the event an overdraft limit appears to 
be unsustainable for a customer, it is required to do so. 
So if Nationwide believed an overdraft limit of £4,000.00 was unsuitable for Mr H  and the 
heavily overdrawn balance for an extended period may have led it to reach this conclusion   
I would say it correctly identified a problem in relation to Mr Hs overdraft usage. And taking 
corrective action in these circumstances, to prevent financial difficulty and unsustainable 
debt, was in line with Nationwides regulatory obligations and good industry practice.
That said, while Nationwide might have correctly identified a problem in Mr Hs overdraft 
usage and it was required to take action, I didnt think that it automatically followed it acted 
fairly and reasonably. I said this because Id expect any action taken by a lender to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate to the particular circumstances. And I didnt think that 
Nationwides actions to correct Mr Hs overdraft usage were fair, reasonable and 
proportionate given the circumstances in this case. 
To explain, while Nationwide agreed to accept payments of £60 a month from Mr H in order 
to get his overdrawn balance below £2,000.00, the plan still required Mr H to pay interest on 
the full amount owing, even though the precursor to this action was Nationwides opinion that 
the full overdraft limit was unaffordable and it wanted to reduce the balance as a result. I was 
particularly disappointed that Nationwide hadnt seen the logical absurdity and 
unreasonableness in this position for itself.
More crucially, and leaving aside the incongruity of the position and my incredulity at this in 
itself, I, in any event, couldnt see how adding interest of approaching £50 a month (at least 
in the early stages), when Mr H was only paying £60 a month was ever going to reduce the 
balance within a reasonable period, or within the two year period set out in Nationwides 
policy. 
So, in my view, Mr H defaulting was an inevitable consequence of the arrangement Mr H 
entered into and I struggled to see the logic of it here. As far as I could see, all this plan 
ensured was that Nationwide would be able to recover further interest from Mr H before the 
overdraft inevitably defaulted. I thought that some might have even argue that Nationwide 
was egregiously taking advantage of Mr Hs impecunious position, although this was not a 
finding I needed to make in this case.  
I also wanted to make it clear that I wasnt making a finding that a lender didnt have the right 
to charge interest on any arrangement to pay or as part of all forbearance measures. But I 
expected any arrangement entered into with a customer to take into account the particular 
circumstances at the time. 
In this case, Nationwide had asked Mr H to reduce the amount he owed by almost £2,000.00 
at a time when it was told that he was in full time education and therefore not working. I 
couldnt see how arranging a plan where the vast majority of what was being paid would be 
going towards paying interest was fair and reasonable or suitable given these particular 
circumstances. 
In my view, the combination of the drastic reduction required to Mr Hs limit, together with 
Nationwides conclusion the £4,000.00 was unaffordable and Mr Hs employment situation 
all pointed to it being fair and reasonable for Nationwide to waive any interest and charges 
as part of any arrangement. This would have at least seen a reasonable prospect of Mr H 
clearing the arrears within Nationwides self-imposed two-year deadline  especially as there 
was an expectation of Mr H returning to full time employment during this time.          
  
So I thought that Nationwide acted unfairly towards Mr H when it agreed and imposed an 
unsuitable and, in my view, wholly illogical arrangement to pay on him, which had no 
reasonable prospect of succeeding. 
As this was the case and Mr H ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges 
because Nationwides failure to set up an arrangement to pay which had a reasonable 
prospect of preventing the account from defaulting. I set out my intention to issue a final 
decision which found that Mr H lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong.
Having reviewed matters, I also saw that Mrs M notified Nationwide of the position in relation 
to Mr Hs illness very early on in the process. There wasnt enough here for me to make a 
finding that Nationwides actions caused Mr Hs hospitalisation as Mrs M had suggested. That said, I did think that Nationwides failure to take into account Mr Hs illness and 
immediately refer him to its specialist support team as well as imposing an unfair 
arrangement to pay, undoubtedly would have caused Mr H significant additional distress 
during what was already a difficult period of time for him. 
As this was the case and bearing in mind Mr Hs circumstances during the period, I was 
minded to direct Nationwide to pay Mr H an additional £400 in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience its actions caused. 
Nationwides response to my provisional decision
Nationwide initially asked for an extension to respond to my provisional decision. When this 
response was refused, on the grounds of Mr Hs circumstances and as Nationwide didnt 
provide reasonable grounds for its request, Nationwide confirmed it wouldnt be responding 
in time.
Mr Hs response to my provisional decision    
Mrs M, on behalf of Mr H, responded to my provisional and provided further comments. In 
summary, she:
said Nationwides actions here were especially poor and not in accordance with its 
overriding obligation to treat Mr H fairly.
said Nationwide shouldnt have granted the overdraft in the first place if it considered 
the facility to be unsustainable given it knew that he was about to return to full time 
education and wouldnt have an income. In these circumstances, the initial decision 
to provide the overdraft was irresponsible.
said whilst Id made it plain that Nationwide was entitled to charge interest on the 
overdraft, the arrangement entered into was laughable and not professional.
reiterated the impact she believes Nationwides actions had on Mr Hs illness and 
provided further information on this.
argued Mr H had to pay extra for his mortgage because of the default Nationwide 
applied on his credit file.
maintained that Mr H should be compensated for all that he had to pay and the fact 
that he has been distressed and inconvenienced. Mrs M also said that she had to 
deal with all of this while she was ill herself.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses. I can confirm that Ive read and considered everything 
theyve said and provided. 
Having considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.Mrs M now says Mr Hs overdraft limit was arguably provided irresponsibly at the outset. But 
this matter has never been raised with Nationwide. On the contrary, it has always been         
Mr Hs position that the overdraft limit shouldnt never have been reduced. I dont know 
whether Mrs M genuinely believes that Mr H shouldnt have been provided with the overdraft 
limit he was provided with in the first place. But if this is the case and she (as well as Mr H) 
want this matter looked into this needs to be taken up with Nationwide in the first instance. 
As Nationwide hasnt yet had the chance to look into this matter and it has the right to look at 
any complaint before I do, Im not offering any comment upon it in this decision.  
Ive also thought about what Mrs M has said about the calls she had with Nationwide and the 
interest charged on the arrangement to pay. But I already explained, in some detail, why I 
thought that Nationwides actions in relation to these matters were unfair in my provisional 
decision. So while I appreciate Mrs M feels strongly about this, Ive already agreed with her 
on these points and therefore her additional comments havent changed my view.
Ive also considered Mrs Ms arguments regarding additional compensation for the distress, 
inconvenience and other losses she says Nationwides actions caused. The first thing for me 
to say is that I did make a £400 award for the significant amount of distress and 
inconvenience Nationwides actions caused Mr H. I can only assume that Mrs M believes 
this amount to be insufficient. 
I know Mrs M believes that Nationwides actions have resulted in Mr H having to pay more 
for his mortgage. I do accept that this is possible. Nonetheless its also possible Mr Hs 
overdraft would still have, in any event, defaulted even if the interest, which I think shouldnt 
have been added, wasnt added. 
Indeed, the monthly repayment agreed wouldnt have cleared the arrears within two years. 
Furthermore, Mr Hs mortgage is a joint one and Im not in a position to speculate over what 
terms he might have been able to obtain anyway and therefore accurately determine what 
loss, if any, Nationwide is responsible. So there simply isnt enough here for me to say 
Nationwide should compensate Mr H for his mortgage arrangements.
Finally, Ive considered the information Mrs M has referred to regarding Mr Hs medical 
condition including the website she has referred to. And while I agree the distress 
Nationwides actions caused wont have helped matters, the information provided isnt 
sufficient to persuade me that Nationwides actions were more likely than not responsible for 
causing Mr Hs hospitalisation. 
As this is the case, I remain satisfied that my award of £400 for Nationwides failure to take 
into account Mr Hs illness and immediately refer him to its specialist support team as well as 
imposing an unfair arrangement to pay, remains fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
So overall and having considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision of 18 November 2021 and Im still 
upholding Mr Hs complaint on the same basis.   
  
Fair compensation  what Nationwide needs to do to put things right for Mr HHaving thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for Nationwide to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Hs account balance, at the time it closed, so that all interest, fees 
and charges applied to it from March 2018 (when the first repayment plan was 
agreed) onwards are removed.
I understand that Mr H has since cleared his balance with Nationwide. So the 
extra he paid, over and above what the reworked closing balance now shows, 
should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr H along with 8% simple 
interest on the overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until 
the date of settlement. 
As there will no longer be an outstanding balance after all adjustments have been 
made Nationwide should remove any and all adverse information from Mr Hs 
credit file.
Pay Mr H £400 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions in 
failing to properly take into account Mr Hs circumstances caused.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint. Nationwide Building Society 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman