DRN-3131783
The complaint
Mrs L has complained about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited. She isnt 
happy that it turned down a claim under her equine insurance policy.
A number of other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Red Sands are 
responsible for it Ive primarily referred to them in this decision.
  
What happened
I looked at this case and provided my initial thoughts in my provisional decision as follows;
Mrs L made a claim under her policy after her horse injured itself after it was spooked. Red 
Sands turned down the claim relying on an exclusion clause that said it wouldnt pay any 
claims caused by barbed wire or other fences.
Mrs L complained as she didnt feel the clause was highlighted and didnt believe the policy 
was fit for purpose. She highlighted that the horse was kept in a fenced area that used a 
well-maintained electric fence. Mrs L said that she wasnt aware of the exclusion under the 
policy and said that she didnt receive an email with her policy or a hard copy of her policy 
documentation as she requested. Had she have received this Mrs L would have gone 
through the policy details and cancelled it as it clearly wasnt suitable for her needs. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs L but didnt uphold her complaint. He was 
satisfied that Red Sands had sent all the policy documentation and the clause Red Sands 
was relying on was clear. So, he didnt think Red Sands had acted unreasonably in relying 
on the exclusion in turning down the claim. 
As Mrs L didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to a different conclusion to our investigator and Im presently 
minded to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ls horse was spooked which caused it to injure itself on the fence that surrounded the 
compound it was grazing in. Her horse was treated for the injuries it sustained and Mrs L put 
in a claim to Red Sands for the vet and hospital fees incurred. But she was surprised to find 
out that Red Sands wouldnt pay her claim relying on a clause that she wasnt aware of. Red 
Sands said it wouldnt pay any claims caused by barbed wire or other fences.
Ive looked at the policy documentation and the clause Red Sands is relying on wasnt 
highlighted to Mrs L in the policy summary. And given the significance of the clause and its 
significant restriction of cover I would expect it to be. I certainly dont feel it is fair for the 
clause to be tucked away on page 36 (under point 11.30 of the general exclusions) of a 41- 
page policy document.
Given this I agree that the clause isnt easy to find and feel that it should be highlighted in 
the policy summary given the significance of the exclusion. Im satisfied, from what Mrs L 
has told this service, that if she was made aware of the clause she would have taken cover 
elsewhere given how her horse is generally kept. And there are policies out there that 
provide such cover.
Furthermore, Mrs L makes the point that her horse would be open to theft or straying if it 
wasnt suitably fenced in while grazing. Indeed, Red Sands policy says that You must 
ensure any area in which your horse/pony is kept is appropriately fenced or otherwise 
secure. Under Section 4 Loss by Theft or Straying which is clearly at odds to the general 
exclusion it has relied on in turning down Mrs Ls claim as her horse has been injured while 
kept in an appropriately fenced area.
Given all of this, and the fact that the exclusion wasnt clearly highlighted to Mrs L, I think the 
fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for Red Sands 
to honour Mrs Ls claim.
Replies and developments
Both sides responded to my provisional decision. Mrs L said again that she felt the policy 
wasnt fit for purpose and outlined that she had paid all the vet fees.
For its part Red Sands reiterated its position. It said it appreciated the comments made in my 
provisional decision regarding the location of the exclusion (that it was tucked away and not 
highlighted in the policy summary). But said it was satisfied the exclusion was clear and 
confirms that it wouldnt pay any claims caused by barb wire or other fences.
Red Sands highlights that it is the policyholders responsibility to ensure that the policy 
meets their needs. And says the policyholder has a 14-day cooling off period in which they 
can make contact to discuss the policy or cancel it. Ultimately, Red Sands was satisfied that 
Mrs Ls horses laceration was caused by the top wire on the fence and so the claim was 
correctly declined.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Im still minded to uphold this complaint. I know Red Sands maintains its 
position that it acted correctly when it relied on the clause in the policy in declining the claim. 
But it has accepted the position I have outlined in my provisional decision (that the clause 
wasnt clearly highlighted in the policy summary) although it feels the clause is clear. While I 
agree that the clause is clear Im satisfied, given the significance of the clause and its 
significant restriction of cover, that the clause should have been clearly highlighted. It 
certainly doesnt feel fair for the clause to be tucked away on page 36 of a 41-page policy 
document. Furthermore, Im satisfied that Mrs L would have acted differently had the clause 
been clearly highlighted in the policy summary. 
Given all of this, and the other reasons outlined above, I think the fair thing to do in the 
particular circumstances of this case is to uphold the complaint and for Red Sands to honour 
Mrs Ls claim. And pay simple interest on the claim if Mrs L has already paid the claim, which 
I understand from her latest response that she has.My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Mrs Ls veterinary fees. It should also pay 
interest on this amount at the simple rate of 8% per year from the date she paid to the date 
of settlement.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman