DRN-2602376
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Phoenix Life Limited gave her unsuitable advice when it advised her to 
set up a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution Pension Plan (FSAVC) instead of 
joining her employers Additional Voluntary Contribution (AVC) pension scheme.
She says she has lost out financially as a result.
What happened
Mrs L brought her complaint to our service about the mis-selling of the FSAVC policy. 
Phoenix Life looked into it and upheld her complaint. It acknowledged that it couldnt show 
that its financial advisor provided Mrs L with a full comparison of the benefits as between a 
FSAVC and her employers AVC. It said it agreed that it needed to put Mrs L in the same 
financial position she wouldve been in had she been advised to contribute to her 
employers AVC, rather than taking out a FSAVC with Phoenix Life.
Phoenix Life provisionally calculated Mrs Ls loss. It said its calculation had been made in 
accordance with the guidance provided by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) for 
Pension Review loss assessment and financial assumptions provided by the Financial 
Ombudsman Service (FOS). It had assumed the contributions Mrs L paid into her FSAVC 
would have been paid into her employers AVC scheme.
As Mrs L had transferred her FSAVC policy away from Phoenix Life it agreed to pay her a 
sum of £1,265.16. It said, if she was a higher rate tax payer, she would be eligible to reclaim 
additional tax relief equal to the difference between her highest tax rate and basic rate tax.
It said this was an interim payment whilst it waited for the FCA to update some information it 
needed to complete the calculation (CAPS information) It said it would make a final 
payment to her once this information was available.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ls complaint and thought that Phoenix Lifes offer of 
redress was fair and reasonable and in line with other awards made by this service in 
circumstances like this. He recommended how the CAPS issue could be resolved.
Phoenix Life made the interim payment to Mrs L. Her complaint has been referred to me as 
the final payment has not yet been paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue left to be decided is whether Phoenix Lifes offer of settlement is fair and 
reasonable and how the CAPS issue should be addressed in the redress calculation.  I am 
going to uphold this complaint and make an order for Phoenix Life to put things right in the 
same way as set out in our investigators view. 
Ive noted that Phoenix Life has made an interim payment to Mrs L already. It has said that it 
is having problems calculating the full amount of redress due to the CAPS issue. My order 
below recognises this difficulty and sets out how redress should be calculated here.
Putting things right
Phoenix Life should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators 
FSAVC review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data 
for the CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So, where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Phoenix Life should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 
and the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
Phoenix Life confirmed it isnt possible for any redress to be put into Mrs Ls pension
policy. So, it should be paid directly to Mrs L as a lump sum after making a notional
deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of 
the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
Phoenix Life has already paid £1265.16 to Mrs L. So, this can be deducted from the
overall redress due.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order Phoenix Life Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman