DRN-4469969
The complaint
Mr C complains about how Accelerant Insurance Limited handled his claim on his property 
insurance policy, following an escape of water.
What happened
Mr C is the leaseholder of a flat in a block, that one of his family members lives in. The 
building management company arranges an insurance policy to cover the flats, this is 
underwritten by Accelerant.
In February 2022 he made a claim after water started bubbling through the floorboards in the 
hall way and the bedroom carpet was saturated. Accelerant accepted the claim and, once 
the leak was identified and fixed, it sent contractors to begin drying the property in April 
2022. However when they arrived they said the flooring needed to be stripped out first. They 
left and Accelerant arranged the stripping out, but this wasnt completed until June.
In July drying equipment was installed and drying was completed by August. However during 
this time Mr C had been concerned about the worsening condition of his property. He 
instructed his own expert to comment on the condition and they said due to the length of 
time it had taken to dry out the property, the dryers had caused micro-dust to become 
dislodged and this was a serious irritant to lungs and eyes. He therefore said the property 
wasnt habitable particularly as the tenant had asthma.
Mr C was also concerned about an infestation of insects at the flat, that he said had been 
caused by the damp conditions.
In September 2022 Accelerant agreed to move the resident into alternative accommodation 
and this was arranged to begin in October.
However during this time Mr C had been unhappy with how the claim had been handled and 
hed made a number of complaints. He said it had taken too long for the claim to progress 
and due to the delay in drying the property, his contents had been damaged by the damp 
conditions. He also said the saturated carpet had never been removed in order for full drying 
to take place and this had contributed to the issues and the insect infestation.
Accelerant responded to his complaints and agreed the claim had taken too long to 
progress. It apologised for the delays. However it didnt agree it was responsible for the 
damaged contents or the carpet. It said the insurance policy only provided buildings cover 
and not contents, so it would have been for Mr C to arrange with his contents insurers to 
remove the contents, including the carpet.
Mr C didnt think this was fair as he said the damage to the contents was caused due to 
Accelerants negligence in dealing with the claim so it should be responsible. He brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered the issues and recommended the complaint be upheld. She 
thought Accelerant should pay £400 compensation to apologise for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused by delaying the claim. She also thought it should consider Mr Cs 
list of damaged contents to decide if it could have done more to prevent their damage. And 
where it finds it should have, it should pay for their repair or replacement. 
Mr C accepted our investigators outcome, however Accelerant didnt. It said it agreed to the 
compensation but didnt agree it was responsible for any of the damaged contents.
As agreement hasnt been reached, the complaint has come to me to decide.
In October 2023 I issued a provisional decision. In it I said:
I understand Mr C has a separate complaint about the issues that have arisen since his
tenant was moved into alternative accommodation. However this decision will only deal with
issues raised up until the end of September 2022, that Accelerant dealt with as part of his
first complaint, This includes delays during that time and damaged contents.
Delays
The claim was raised in February 2022, and from this point it took five months for drying
equipment to be installed. This is far longer than Id expect for a claim of this nature.
The cause of the leak was quickly identified and rectified. And after this, Id have expected
Accelerant to act quickly to strip out the affected areas and commence drying. However the
dryers didnt first attend until two months after the claim, in April. And at this time had to
leave as strip out work hadnt been completed. It took another month for this to be arranged,
and a month after this for the drying equipment to eventually be installed in July.
I would have expected this to have been completed within a month of when the leak was
identified and fixed, so I think Accelerant caused around a four month delay.
From looking at the claim notes and correspondence, Ive been unable to identify a reason
why this was delayed. Other than poor communication with its contractors. So I consider this
delay to have been avoidable.
During this time Mr C was constantly contacting Accelerant to ask for updates and to enquire
about when appointments would take place. And hes explained that his tenant was living in
the property that remained damp for a much longer period than it should of, and was
experiencing worsening health. This would have been very distressing for Mr C.
Based on this Im minded to agree with our investigator that Accelerant should pay £400
compensation to apologise for the distress it caused at the start of the claim.
Contents
Ive also considered what both sides have said about the damaged contents. Ill address the
saturated carpet first.
There is no dispute that the policy provided by Accelerant doesnt include cover for contents.
Therefore it is only responsible for repairing damage to the buildings as part of the policy
cover. However part of this includes ensuring the building has been suitably dried. And its
clear hear that in order for this to be done, the saturated carpet would need to be removed.
Accelerants own contractors even commented as such themselves during their visit in
August, when they questioned why it hadnt been removed.
I agree Accelerant wouldnt be responsible for replacing the carpet. As that would
reasonably fall under contents cover. However as the carpet needed to be removed in order
for the property to be dried out, I think it should have done this when it stripped out thehallway floor and kitchen tiles. And because it didnt, it seems likely the damp problem at the
property worsened.
Mr C has reported that due to the damp conditions caused by the delay to drying the
property, his contents have now also been damaged. Accelerant has said it wouldnt be
responsible for these as it provides a buildings policy, however I dont agree thats a fair
approach in the circumstances.
It's clear that the property took far longer to be dried than it should have. And that the damp
carpet remained in place when it should have been removed. Based on this, it seems likely
that the contents that was stored in the property would be damaged by the exposure to
damp conditions for a prolonged period.
Further, Mr C has shown that the property developed an insect infestation. And Accelerant
havent disputed that this seems to have been a result of the damp conditions.
While Accelerant has said it isnt responsible for the contents, it hasnt taken any steps to
inspect the items. Nor has it provided evidence to show why they werent damaged by the
prolonged damp conditions in the property.
Accelerant has said that it was Mr Cs responsibility to remove the items of contents and this
should have been done by contacting his contents insurance provider. However I dont agree 
it should have been necessary to remove all contents from the property, based on the
escape of water. If the property had been dried out promptly then its likely the contents
could have remained in the flat without issue. So I dont agree its fair to decline to consider
the items on this basis.
Based on this it seems likely that at least some of the damage to the contents has been
caused by the property being exposed to damp conditions for longer than it should have
been. And as the delays to the drying of the property were caused by Accelerants poor
handling of the claim, I think its fair and reasonable that it considers the items Mr C says
have been damaged and repairs or replaces those that have been caused by its in-action.
Mr C has provided an extensive list of items hes said have been damaged. While I agree
Accelerant should accept responsibility for those that have been damaged by damp and the
insect infestation, I dont think it fair to ask it to cover everything without having the
opportunity to consider the evidence Mr C has provided. Im therefore minded to require 
Accelerant to accept Mr Cs claim for consequential losses and cover the cost of the repair
or replacement of all items that were damaged to damp or insect infestation, based on its
validation of the evidence provided.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr C responded to my provisional decision to explain that he doesnt rent the property out, 
instead a family member lives in the flat.
He also said that all the contents he is claiming for have been removed and disposed of, as 
they were told to do by Accelerant. So there was nothing left for it to inspect.
Accelerant responded to say that it didnt agree it was responsible for the carpets, as it had 
told Mr C from the start that these would be the responsibility of his contents insurer but he 
took no action to have them removed. They also said the resident of the flat was difficult 
when its contractors attended and made no attempt to move any of the contents out before 
the visit. It didnt agree it should cover the cost of the contents.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I apologise for my incorrect statement that Mr C rents out the property in my 
provisional decision. I have amended this in the background section of this complaint to 
better reflect the circumstances. 
While the items of contents are no longer available for inspection, its only fair that 
Accelerant is given the opportunity to validate the list of contents being claimed for. This 
includes validation of the cost of the items and ensuring they havent been covered under 
any other insurances. However, once this is complete I would expect Accelerant to make 
prompt payment for the items.  
I have also considered what Accelerant has said about the carpets and contents. I havent 
disputed that the replacement of the carpets should be covered under the contents 
insurance. However under the buildings policy, Accelerant were obliged to ensure the 
building was properly dried in order for repair work to begin. And if, in order to ensure the 
property was dry, this required the carpets to be removed, this service would expect 
Accelerant to have carried this out. From the evidence, it seems that because the carpets 
werent removed, the damp problem at the property was left to get worse and this 
subsequently caused an insect infestation. And as I consider it Accelerants responsibility to 
ensure the property was dry, it follows that it is now responsible for reimbursing the cost of 
the damaged furniture due to the prolonged damp conditions. 
I note Accelerants comments about its contractors having to move some of the contents, but 
again I dont consider this to be unreasonable if it was required to ensure the property was 
properly dried. 
Ive considered everything each side has said in response to my provisional decision, as well 
as the evidence provided to date. Based on this, I see no reason to depart from the findings 
laid out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Cs complaint and direct Accelerant Insurance 
Limited to:
Pay Mr C £400 compensation.
Consider Mr Cs list of damaged contents and pay to replace those that have been 
damaged by the damp or insect infestation and havent been covered by another 
insurance policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman