DRN-3906103
The complaint
Mr W has complained that Sainsburys Bank plc collected money from his account for three 
months for a home insurance policy he didnt set up.
What happened
In January 2022 Sainsburys said there was no evidence to suggest the policy had seen set
up fraudulently, so it didnt uphold his complaint. It said that Mr W had made a request to
claim back the monthly payments he had made from his bank and this left him owing
Sainsburys a balance of £57.01.
Sainsburys said it would waive the outstanding balance in order to resolve Mr Ws 
complaint.
Mr W contacted us as he remained unhappy. He said hed wasted a lot of time trying to get
the matter resolved with Sainsburys and it still owed him money for payments it had
collected from his account without his consent. Mr W wanted compensation for the distress
and inconvenience Sainsburys had caused him.
Our Investigator issued three views. In the first view she recommend the complaint shouldnt
be upheld. Mr W disagreed and said he wasnt a customer of Sainsburys. In a second view,
the Investigator said we couldnt consider his complaint as Mr W wasnt an eligible
complainant.
In a third view, the Investigator recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld. She
explained that as Sainsburys had issued a final response letter to Mr W and provided him
with referral rights to this service, we could consider his complaint on its merits. As there was
no evidence a policy had been set up fraudulently, and Sainsburys appeared to have put Mr
W back in the position he would have been in had the policy not been set up, she thought it
had done enough to resolve the complaint.
Mr W didnt agree. He asked if this service has considered evidence to show he was a
customer of Sainsburys.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 December 2022 intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
We asked Sainsburys to provide proof of Mr Ws application for the policy and what 
payments Mr W had made and what they were for. Sainsburys didnt provide this 
information. So I gave both parties an opportunity to provide further comments and 
information before I made a final decision. I said I intended to request Sainsburys pay Mr W 
£100 compensation and to cancel Mr Ws policy from outset, providing the appropriate 
refund and adding interest to the refund amount. 
Mr W accepted my provisional decision. Sainsburys didnt respond. So the case has been 
passed back to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision is along the same lines as my 
provisional decision. 
In order to say Sainsburys acted reasonably it needs to be able to show it acted in 
accordance with Mr Ws instructions in setting up the policy. Mr W told us that he complained 
to Sainsburys in October 2021 about having had three payments taken from his account for 
a policy he didnt set up. He hasnt specified what months the payments were taken.
We have received limited information from Sainsburys. To support its decision not to uphold 
Mr Ws complaint we asked it to provide proof of his application for a policy: either through a 
recording of a sales call or screenshots of the online application.
In August 2022 Sainsburys told us the policy was cancelled mid-term with an outstanding 
balance of £57.01. It provided a home policy schedule which showed a mid-term change 
date for October 2021, with an expiry date for the policy of July 2022.
This would suggest the policy originally started in July 2021. In line with what Mr W told us, 
this seems to tie in with his complaint that three months payments - since July 2021 - had 
been taken from his account when he complained to Sainsburys in October 2021.
We asked Sainsburys to show what payments had been made and what the breakdown of 
payments returned were. Sainsburys hasnt provided this. It isnt clear from the policy 
schedule what the mid-term change was in October 2021.
Sainsburys said that the only person to benefit from the policy was Mr W. I agree. But the 
fact remains that evidence to support Sainsburys set up of the policy hasnt been provided.
So in the absence of this key information, I cant conclude that Sainsburys has reasonably 
resolved Mr Ws complaint. I think as a broker, Sainsburys should be able to provide proof 
of a policy - for the customer as well as this service - in order to say there is no evidence of a 
fraudulent set up of a policy.
In the absence of any details as to when the policy was started and the amounts Mr W paid, 
I think Sainsburys should cancel the policy from the outset and provide Mr W with a full 
refund minus any amount he claimed directly from his bank. It should pay interest on the 
refund at a rate of 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date it reimburses Mr 
W. It should ensure the cancellation isnt recorded against any internal or external 
databases.
My requirements are on the basis no claim was received by Sainsburys during the life of the 
policy.
I think Sainsburys should pay Mr W £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Sainsburys Bank plc to do the following: 
arrange for the cancellation from outset of the policy it hasnt provided proof of 
application for.
Ensure the cancellation isnt recorded on external or internal databases as a 
cancellation by Sainsburys.
arrange for Mr W to receive the equivalent of a refund adding interest at a rate of 
8% simple interest a year from the date of the policy to the date of reimbursement 
- subject to no claim having been received under the policy.
Pay Mr W £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman