DRN-3025026
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the number of calls he received from Vitality Health Limited. 
What happened
Mr B asked Vitality for a quote in relation to private medical insurance. Vitality provided two 
quotes and arranged a follow up call. Vitality left a voicemail for Mr B and then called him a 
further 60+ times over a period of about three weeks. Mr B complained to Vitality and it 
offered him £75 compensation and an apology for the number of calls made. And it also said 
it had given feedback to the individual concerned. It explained that had Mr B contacted it 
sooner, it could have arranged to put a stop to the calls earlier on. Mr B remained unhappy 
and so Vitality increased its offer of compensation to £100.
Unhappy with Vitalitys response, Mr B referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator 
agreed that the calls were excessive but thought £100 compensation was reasonable.
Mr B disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
The number of calls made amounted to stalking and harassment.
He was still receiving notifications after he had blocked the call. The person knew 
they were being blocked but continued to ring.
This is a borderline criminal offence and £100 is nowhere near acceptable. Mr B has 
reported it to the ICO.
The number of calls has left Mr B stressed and harassed at a time of redundancy and 
furlough.
Vitality only partially upheld the complaint and blamed Mr B.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that the £100 compensation offered by Vitality is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances. Ill explain why. 
The facts of the case have already been set out in some detail by the investigator and so I 
wont repeat them again. Ive also seen that the investigator has provided Mr B with a link to 
our website outlining how we consider awards for compensation. 
Both sides accept that Vitality made an excessive number of calls for which it has apologised 
and offered £100 compensation. Mr B disagrees with the level of compensation and so thats 
what Ill focus on in my decision. 
Mr B feels Vitality should pay him an amount per call and has said this should be a minimum 
of £10. But when assessing what level of compensation is appropriate, I have to take into 
account the impact on Mr B. 
Im sorry to hear of Mr Bs employment circumstances, which were no doubt, stressful. And it 
wasnt reasonable for Vitality to call Mr B so many times. I cant decide whether its actions 
amount to stalking, harassment or a criminal offence. Thats something Mr B would need to 
contact the police about. But I can consider the impact Vitalitys actions had on Mr B. 
Mr B quite sensibly blocked the number but he continued to receive notifications. So I agree 
that this would have been annoying and frustrating. Mr B say he was stressed by the number 
of calls he received. But I have to also take into account any actions Mr B took or could have 
taken to minimise the impact of the excessive calls. Ive seen that when he did contact 
Vitality about the number of calls being made, a stop was put on the calls. So Im satisfied 
that Vitality took swift and appropriate action. 
Mr B is unhappy that Vitality blamed him for not asking them to stop the calls earlier. Having 
considered Vitalitys responses to the complaint, I dont think its intention was to blame Mr M 
but to explain what it had considered during its investigation of the complaint. In this case, 
the calls could have been stopped at an earlier stage had he made contact sooner. Vitality 
also accepted it would have been reasonable for the adviser to have stopped calling sooner. 
And that she should have followed up in another way, for example, by email. It confirmed it 
had provided feedback to the individual involved which I think is reasonable.
Mr B has provided me with evidence of online reviews from other customers. But I can only 
consider his specific complaint and cant comment on reviews by other customers.
Having considered all of the above, I think £100 compensation is appropriate as I dont think 
the impact of the excessive calls was long lasting. And although it wasnt Mr Bs fault that 
Vitality called him so many times, he could have contacted Vitality at an earlier point to ask it 
to stop calling. 
As Vitality has apologised, offered compensation for the stress caused to Mr B and has fed 
back to the individual involved, I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I think Vitalitys offer and apology is fair and so it doesnt 
need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman