DRN-3752959
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Usay Business Limited mis-sold her a private medical insurance policy. 
Mr B is assisting Mrs B in bringing her complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in January 2021 Mr B contacted Usay in relation to private 
medical insurance for Mrs B. Usay recommended a policy which Mrs B took out. The 
policy began on 16 January 2021.    
In late 2021, Mrs B sought medical treatment in relation to symptoms she had. 
Ultimately, Mrs B had surgery in January 2022. I understand that the insurer declined 
Mrs Bs claim. It said that Mrs Bs choice of consultant wasnt included in her cover.  
Mr B, on Mrs Bs behalf, says that Usay didnt explain the policy at the time of sale. Mr B 
says that Mrs B wasnt told that the policy excluded any reimbursement for a consultant 
she chose. Mrs B says that her consultant was operating in a hospital included in the 
insurers directory, but her claim wasnt covered as she chose the consultant. Mrs B 
wants Usay to reimburse her medical costs. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Usay had 
given Mrs B advice that was unsuitable. The investigator said that Usay had provided 
Mrs B with all the necessary information, including the policy terms which set out how 
the policy worked. 
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. Mr B responded on her behalf and said, in 
summary, that Usay didnt explain that Mrs Bs choice of hospital wouldnt be covered 
under the guided option. He says that Usay wasnt aware of the policys limitations, as in 
a phone call on 11 January 2022, it confirmed that the cost of Mrs Bs hospital would be 
covered under the policy only to correct that later. 
The investigator considered what Mr B said but didnt change his view. As there was no 
agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was an advised sale by Usay. This means that under industry guidelines set out by the 
Financial Conduct Authority, Usay needed to take reasonable care to ensure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs Bs demands and needs. This includes taking into account factors such as 
the level of cover, the cost of cover and any relevant exclusions, excesses, limitations, and 
conditions. 
Ive listened to the recording of the phone calls between Usay and Mr B when Usay sold the 
policy. Usay asked Mr B whether he was content for an insurer to choose the consultant and 
hospital or whether hed rather choose the consultant and hospital himself. Mr B said that 
hed rather choose but that it wasnt a strong preference. In the call when Usay went over its 
recommendation, Mr B confirmed that he was happy for the insurer to guide him to the best 
consultant or hospital. Overall, Im satisfied that Usay didnt sell Mrs B a policy which was 
unsuitable for her. I appreciate that, subsequently, Mrs B wanted to select her own 
consultant but that doesnt mean that Usay mis-sold the policy to her. 
Usay provided Mrs B with an illustration of benefits, which showed that the policy was 
Guided. It also provided Mrs B with the policy terms and conditions which included 
reference to the fact that in the guided option all treatment must be with or under a specialist 
the insurer has chosen. Im satisfied that the information Usay provided at the time of the 
sale was clear. 
In this decision, Im dealing with Usays actions in selling the policy. Usay isnt responsible 
for the insurers terms or its decisions on claims. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that 
Usay provided Mrs B with a recommendation that was suitable and that the information it 
provided was clear.
Mr B says that in a phone call on 11January 2022, Usay confirmed that the cost of Mrs Bs 
hospital would be covered under the policy only to correct that later. I dont think that alters 
the outcome here. Thats because Im looking at Usays actions at the time of the sale of the 
policy in January 2021. What was said a year later by a different representative of Usay 
doesnt show that Usay mis-sold the policy to Mrs B.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman