DRN-2665399
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that he is required to call the business every three months to complete an 
income and expenditure exercise. Bank of Scotland t/a Halifax (Halifax) says that its 
required to do this to ensure that Mr R is on an affordable repayment plan.
What happened
Mr Rs usual income reduced by around a third because he was forced to take a reduction in 
his salary following a restructure by his employer. This meant that Mr R didnt have his usual 
income to be able to make the same contributions towards his debts. 
Mr R has a credit card with Halifax so he let it know about his change in circumstances and 
Halifax agreed to a repayment plan subject to an income and expenditure assessment being 
carried out every three months. Mr R says that completing this assessment is inconvenient 
for him because of his sight impairment and moreover, as his circumstances remain 
unchanged, it feels that its excessive to keep completing this exercise. 
Mr R wanted to repay just over £3 a month towards his debt but Halifax couldnt agree to this 
and advised him that his account would proceed to be defaulted if so. Mr R didnt want this 
and between them, they agreed a repayment plan in February 2020 commencing in March 
2020 for £20 per month. Mr R completed two income and expenditure exercises with Halifax 
but didnt do a third in August 2020 when it fell due. 
Because he didnt complete the third income and expenditure assessment, Halifax cancelled 
the formal arrangement so Mr Rs account is now interest bearing and hes required to make 
a minimum repayment each month. It has also withdrawn its banking facilities. Mr R says 
that this and the related policies employed by the wider banking group demonstrates that 
people in temporary financial difficulties are not treated fairly. Mr R also says that he feels 
victimised and harassed in the way that Halifax has treated him. 
Halifax says that it needs to complete the income and expenditure assessment to ensure 
that the payments a customer is making are affordable for them and arent exacerbating their 
financial difficulty. It said that ordinarily it wouldnt have allowed £20 per month to be set as 
the repayment amount because this exceeded what Mr R could afford. However, as this was 
being funded by Mr Rs mother, but it made an exception in his case. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said that the steps 
which Halifax took are what shed expect to see when it was supporting a customer with 
financial difficulties. As Mr R disagreed, the case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that whilst I have read all of the available evidence in this case 
 including the detailed representations of both parties - I have kept my decision to the 
material points which I consider to be relevant. I thank both parties for all the evidence 
theyve submitted in this case. 
Having considered all the evidence, Ive decided Im not going to uphold Mr Rs complaint, 
largely for the same reasons set out by our investigator in her assessment. I know this will 
be disappointing for Mr R to hear but Id like to explain why Ive reached this conclusion. 
Before I do so, Id like to express that Im sorry to hear that Mr Rs employer reduced his pay 
which has contributed towards the financial difficulties hes experienced; I imagine that this 
has been a very worrying time for Mr R in light of this change in circumstance. 
Mr R feels that completing an income and expenditure assessment every three months is 
excessive. Mr R has asked why he cannot simply let Halifax know every three months that 
his circumstances havent changed without having to do a full income and expenditure 
assessment each month. Halifax has responded to say that its required to assess the 
affordability of any new plan in place (so every three months) to repay debt as part of its duty 
to be a responsible lender  and I cant say that this is wrong. 
Halifax has a duty to ensure that it adequately manages any short term repayment plans and 
reports the status of its customers accounts accurately; so from what Ive seen, I cant say 
that its done anything wrong here. I can see that as a matter of principle, Mr R feels that 
completing an income and expenditure exercise every three months is unnecessary when he 
says that other banks are willing to complete this annually. I cant comment here on any 
other arrangements Mr R has with his other lenders. My remit is to decide whether I consider 
Halifax has treated Mr R in a fair and reasonable way and from the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that it has. 
Halifax has confirmed that when Mr Rs payment arrangement was in place, the system 
would only expect a payment of £20 so arrears would not have been built up. It also said that 
a payment arrangement would be registered on Mr Rs credit file whilst it was in place. I can 
understand Mr Rs concerns about the impact of his repayment plans on his credit file and 
any future application he may make for lending. But I have to balance this against a 
business obligations when its customers are experiencing financial difficulties. In this case, I 
consider Halifax treated Mr R positively and sympathetically in agreeing a repayment plan 
and taking into account Mr Rs mothers contributions. Further, Id expect it to consider 
alternative ways to go through the income and expenditure with Mr R which suit him 
because of his visual impairment. Halifax has confirmed that its happy to complete these 
over the telephone with him  and I consider this to be reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr R says that he feels victimised and harassed in the way that Halifax has treated him 
through its communications. Having considered all the evidence in this case carefully 
together with the submissions from both parties, I cannot see any evidence of this. 
For the reasons stated above, Im not upholding this complaint. Im sorry if this disappoints 
Mr R but I hope Ive explained why Ive reached this conclusion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Reena AnandOmbudsman