DRN-2016297
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained about the increase in premiums theyre required to pay for 
their whole of life policy, administered by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out a reviewable whole of life policy in February 1991. The initial sum 
assured was £25,000 and the premium was £25 per month. 
Over the years the policy wasnt reviewed entirely in line with its terms and conditions. 
However, Aviva have attempted to rectify the effects of this by adding units to the policy, to 
ensure that Mr and Mrs K were not disadvantaged. Aviva have also subsequently reviewed 
the policy as it should and kept Mr and Mrs K informed via regular letters. 
In the 2019 review, it was found that not enough was being paid into the policy to maintain 
the initial sum assured. It was explained to Mr and Mrs K that if they wanted to keep their 
premiums as they were, the policy benefit would reduce to £14,373. Alternatively, they could 
increase their monthly payments to £89.13 to keep the benefit at £25,000. 
This is what prompted Mr and Mrs K to complain. They said they dont feel the amount being 
asked from them as an increase in premium is fair. Mr and Mrs K also raised reservations in 
regard to the way the policy was sold to them. However, Aviva have made Mr and Mrs K 
aware that it was sold by an independent financial advisor and so Aviva are not responsible 
for the suitability of this policy or what they were told at the time they took it out.  
Aviva investigated this complaint and acknowledged there had been problems with previous 
reviews. However, they had set out clearly what they had done to get the policy back on 
track and they felt that was fair. 
Mr and Mrs K were unhappy with Avivas response and so brought the complaint to this 
Service. They maintained that the amount being asked of them was not fair. The complaint 
was assessed by one of our investigators who felt it shouldnt be upheld. He was of the view 
that the amount being asked of Mr and Mrs K as an increase in premium was correct.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with the assessment and remained of the view that the increse in 
premium was not fair. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that to be told about the decrease in the death benefit and the increase required 
in the premiums came as a shock to Mr and Mrs K. But ultimately this is how reviewable 
whole of life policies work. So Aviva hasnt done anything wrong in asking for a higher 
premium or proposing to lower the death benefit. 
Reviews are part of the contract Mr and Mrs K signed up to and their function is to 
specifically ascertain whether enough is being paid into the policy, taking account of the 
investment element, to provide the death benefit at the required time. Given these policies 
are usually in place for tens of years it is very rare for the death benefit to remain the same 
as well as the premiums. The cost of living increases as one gets older, as do mortality rates 
and these are a couple of factors that are taken into account when reviewing the policy and 
calculating the increases and decreases required. The criteria of the calculations are largely 
the same industry wide based on what Ive seen and so are not specific to Aviva. Ultimately 
this is the nature of these types of policies. An increase in the premiums will usually always 
be required for reviewable whole of life policies if they continue to run more than ten years. 
I obviously wasnt present when the policy was sold nor is there a lot of information from the 
time of the sale for me to be certain or comment on what was discussed. The policy 
documents at the time should have explained all these facts and more, and this would have 
been given to Mr and Mrs K when they agreed to take the policy. However, it was the 
resposibility of the advisor at the time to make this and in particular the reviewable nature of 
the policy, clear to Mr and Mrs K. Aviva cant be held responsible if that wasnt done. 
There is no doubt that some errors have occurred through the administration of the policy, 
but I am satisfied Aviva has tried to correct these. 
Aviva explained the policy wasnt reviewed as it should have been in 2001, 2006 or 2011. It 
has run the reviews retrospectively and confirmed that they would have passed. Meaning 
that no increased premium or reduced sum assured would have been required. 
However, the 2016 review was also not completed as it should have been and a 
retrospective review showed that it would have failed. Meaning an increased premium would 
have been required to maintain the sum assured. To rectify that, Aviva has confirmed that it 
bought units for the policy at no extra cost to Mr and Mrs K. So the policy would be in the 
same position had it reviewed correctly in 2016 and Mr and Mrs K had elected to pay an 
increased premium. 
In light of this,  I am satisfied on balance that what Aviva done to put things right is sufficient 
and that it has put the policy into the correct position had those errors not occurred. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs K. As frustrating as it is to have to either 
accept a lower death benefit or pay more into the policy this is simply how these whole of life 
policies work. I am also satisfied that Aviva has corrected the policy after errors in the past 
and has conducted the reviews correctly. 
I therefore dont think the policy review is incorrect or unfair and I dont think that Aviva has 
done anything wrong. So, I wontt be requiring it to do anything in this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman