DRN-3084394
The complaint
Mr P has complained about his motor insurer AXA Insurance Plc in respect of how it handled 
a liability claim when he was involved in a crash with another driver. 
What happened
Mr P had a crash in November 2019 and claimed on his policy. In early 2020 AXA accepted 
it had caused delays dealing with the matter to that point and paid Mr P £225 compensation. 
It assured Mr P it would then pursue the liability aspect with the other drivers insurer. As 
2020 progressed Mr P heard nothing more and became more frustrated. His policy renewed 
and he was unhappy at facing what he saw as increased charges for cover caused by AXAs 
inability to settle his claim. In June 2021, shortly after Mr P had complained to us, Mr P was 
told it was likely the claim would settle on a split liability basis. He remained unhappy about 
what had occurred to date and was unsure if he would be kept informed in the future. He told 
us hed like £450 compensation. 
Our investigator put Mr Ps concerns to AXA. He asked if it would pay the £450 
compensation and agree to keep Mr P updated. AXA agreed to pay the compensation but 
didnt comment on the issue of regular updates. But it later said it would look to let Mr P 
know what was currently happening with his claim.
Mr P said all he wanted to know about now was that AXA was going to pay him the £450 
offered. Our investigator issued a view confirming he felt AXA should pay the £450 and 
provide Mr P with regular updates. AXA then told us it wasnt happy to pay the 
recommended compensation, it felt it was too high. When our investigator put it to AXA that 
this was a sum it had readily offered to pay, AXA didnt reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think AXA could have done more to update Mr P during this claim. And I can understand it 
was upsetting and frustrating for Mr P. Not least to have a further lack of communication and 
poor service when AXA had already answered a similar complaint about this and provided 
Mr P with assurances designed to give him confidence that further issues would be avoided. 
And I think it's of importance that these failures were repeated and over a prolonged period. 
Further that Mr P was given cause to worry about his renewal and what he was having to 
pay for that. It also doesnt matter to me that if this claim ultimately settles on the basis of 
split liability  which it looks like it will  Mr Ps renewal premium would always have been 
affected. My focus is on the worry Mr P was caused because a lack of updates and poor 
communication left him in the dark about what was happening and what the likely outcome 
might be. This was all frustration and concern which AXA, if it had handled the claim better, 
couldve simply prevented from occurring.
Im mindful that AXA, in its initial review after we became involved, agreed that £450 
compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. When it changed its mind later 
it gave no real reasoning for the change. It didnt say anything that gives me cause to think 
that its view that £450 is unfair and unreasonable in the circumstances should be given 
greater weight than its first stated opinion. So Ive looked at what happened, the upset Ive 
found Mr P was caused, as Ive set out above, and thought about other awards made by this 
service in similar circumstances. I think, on balance, £450 compensation is fair and 
reasonable, so Im going to require AXA to pay this to Mr P.
It stands to reason that I think AXA should provide regular updates to Mr P going forwards. 
I know, from what Mr Ps said, that he doesnt expect to receive these in the future. But that 
doesnt mean I shouldnt hold AXA to providing him with a good service and acting in line 
with best practice. To give my award some context, Im going to say AXA should update 
Mr P at least once a month  but additionally and sooner, as soon as is reasonably practical 
in fact, if theres something important to impart.  
Putting things right
I require AXA to:
Pay Mr P £450 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused him.
Provide Mr P with regular updates until his claim is closed, at least at one-month 
intervals, but with additional contact, made as soon as reasonably practical, where there 
is important information to impart.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance Plc to provide the redress set out above at 
putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman