DRN-3658884
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) refuse to refund a transaction 
made from their account which they didnt authorise. 
What happened
In early December 2021, two transfers were made from Mr and Mrs Ns childrens savings 
account using online banking into their current account. The following day around £5,000 
was paid out to third party company. 
Mr N says he couldnt have made this payment as he was attending a medical appointment. 
Later that day, Mr N called Barclays to report the transaction as fraudulent and asked for it to 
be refunded. 
Barclays initially refunded the payment pending its investigation. But after investigating 
Barclays didnt uphold the claim and reversed the funds. Mr and Mrs N complained. Barclays 
didnt uphold their complaint, so Mr and Mrs N referred the complaint to this service. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. They thought Mr and Mrs N 
consented to the payments. In summary, the key findings they made were: 
- The payment was made using a well-known mobile phone payment system on a 
registered device for Barclays mobile banking
- Its unlikely anyone but Mr and Mrs N could have passed security and registered the 
device
- Banking records show this phone device was used to access Mr and Mrs Ns account 
several days before, and on the day, of the disputed transaction  using fingerprint 
touch identification and a passcode
- The device was registered and activated seven weeks before the disputed payment 
was made. Its unlikely a fraudster would wait so long to do this after set-up 
- Mr N has shown he was at a hospital appointment on the day of the transaction. But 
this doesnt mean he didnt authorise someone else to make the transfers. 
Mr and Mrs N did not agree. They reiterated the device did not belong to them. Mr N also 
said when he called Barclays to report the transaction, he was asked to see if his phone had 
been remotely accessed. He says he found a remote access app which he then deleted. But 
he cant say if someone did have remote access to his phone. Mr N says it looks like 
criminals have hacked into his phone to access his personal data.  
Mr N has said he has a medical condition which means he couldnt have used his fingerprint 
to authorise a payment. He also questions why Barclays didnt stop the payment going 
through when he reported it. 
Barclays have added that Mr N used a recognised device which required additional 
authentication to permit the transaction. Because of this it didnt flag the payment as unusual 
and one to check.  
As Mr and Mrs N didnt agree, their complaint has now been passed to me - an Ombudsman 
- to decide.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint. I know this will 
disappoint them, so Ill explain why. 
Generally, Barclays can hold Mr and Mrs N liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not, they made or authorised it themselves. 
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence a registered device, and mobile phone 
fingerprint authentication process was used to make the internal transfers, and then the 
disputed transaction itself.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable 
Barclays to hold them liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its 
more likely than not that Mr and Mrs N consented to the transaction being made.
From what Ive seen, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs N consented to this payment  in turn 
this means they authorised it and Barclays doesnt have to refund them. I say this because: 
Ive seen the process someone would have to go through to register another mobile 
phone device to Barclays mobile banking app. It would need someone to know and 
then input the debit card details. This would be followed by a text message being 
sent to a mobile number already on its system with a six-digit verification code. 
Alternatively, someone could call through to identify as Mr or Mrs N. Once this is 
done a welcome message is sent by Barclays either by email or text message. 
Mr and Mrs N say the device used to carry out this transaction wasnt theirs. They 
add their personal details must have been hacked and they are the victims here of a 
sophisticated fraud. I note Mr N says a previous mobile phone was stolen from his 
car a few weeks before this transaction occurred. But the device used to carry out the 
transaction was registered several weeks before then, so I dont think the phone 
being stolen, and potentially any details taken from it, had any correlation to fraud 
being carried out. 
Mr N has said he had a remote access app on his phone. He has only put this 
information forward after our Investigator didnt uphold their complaint. On one hand, 
I question why hes only mentioned this more recently, but in addition I also havent 
seen any compelling information about this to be persuaded a fraudster was 
accessing his mobile phone to carry out the fraud.
Ive had no information to explain how someone was able to register a phone via 
Barclays mobile banking app, and then add the card credentials to its mobile 
payment system. Nor have I seen enough information to show how someone 
accessed a verification message sent to Mr and Mrs Ns device. So because of that, I 
think its most likely Mr and Mrs N authorised this payment or authorised someone 
else to do so. Mr N says he was in hospital whilst the transaction was being carried out. That 
doesnt mean to say he didnt have any access or use of his own phone. Equally, its 
possible someone else they authorised, carried this out. 
I find it difficult to understand how this unknown device was registered with Barclays 
some seven weeks before any fraud was attempted. Its unlikely an opportunistic 
fraudster would wait this long before taking such action. I havent seen anything to 
suggest they were waiting for sums to be moved into Mr and Mrs Ns accounts. From 
what I can see, the funds in the childrens savings account were already there for 
some time.
I note Barclays say its systems didnt flag this payment as unusual as it was made 
from a registered device, and additional biometric authentication was required to 
make it. Given I think its most likely Mr and Mrs N authorised this payment, this isnt 
something I must make a finding on. That is, whether Barclays should have done 
more to protect Mr and Mrs N from financial harm. 
So, in conclusion, for the reasons Ive given above, I think its most likely Mr and Mrs N  or 
someone they gave permission to  authorised the transaction they dispute.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman