DRN-3465287
The complaint
Miss A complains Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos (Argos), 
unfairly defaulted her account.
What happened
Miss A bought a television in November 2019. Miss A used her Argos card and the purchase 
was made via buy now pay later (BNPL). Miss A had to pay the television off in full by 
November 2020 or shed be charged interest.
Miss As Argos card had been open for some time before the purchase.
Miss A then moved house, but didnt tell Argos. The BNPL wasnt paid off so Argos applied 
interest to Miss As card. Miss A didnt make any payments, so Argos applied further interest 
and some charges.
Because Miss A failed to make any payments to the card, and the card was in arrears, Argos 
defaulted the account. Miss A was then contacted by a debt collector.
Miss A complained to Argos and explained shed forgotten to tell it about her new address as 
shed had some very distressing personal circumstances at the time of her move. Miss A 
said shed pay for the television but felt the interest was unfair.
Argos replied to say the interest had been applied fairly and the account had been correctly 
defaulted. Unhappy with this response, Miss A brought her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things and they didnt think Miss As complaint should be upheld. 
The investigator thought it was Miss As responsibility to tell Argos about her new address.
Miss A didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to Miss As initial call to this service, and Miss A said she moved house in April 
2019. But Miss A also says she bought the television six months before she moved. On 
balance, Im satisfied Miss A moved in April 2020.
Miss A says she was given cash by her son to purchase the television. Its clear the 
purchase was made on the Argos card, but Miss A says she simply forgot, thinking shed 
used the cash to buy the television.
Ive looked at Miss As statements and can she see she bought an additional item when she 
bought the television. This item was returned to Argos a week later and refunded to her 
Argos card, not in cash. I think if Miss A hadnt realised shed used her card at the time of 
the purchase, she would have known a week later when she returned the other item.
And the statements also show they were being sent to Miss As address from November 
2019. And since Im satisfied Miss A was still at the address Argos held at this time, I believe 
she would have received these statements. The statements clearly show a balance owed.
Miss A admits she didnt update her address with Argos when she moved. And while I 
believe Miss A when she says this was a mistake, Miss A does have a responsibility to 
update her address  and this is true even if Miss A did move in April 2019.
Argos continued to send statements to the address it held on file. The BNPL period expired 
in November 2020 and Argos applied interest, as laid out in its terms and conditions. And 
when Miss A failed to make further payments Argos applied interest and charges for the next 
three months.
Argos wrote to Miss A to warn her it would default her account if she didnt clear the arrears. 
Argos didnt receive a response, or a payment, so it defaulted Miss As card in April 2021.
The Information Commissioners Office sets out rules on when a lender should default an 
account, and this says it should be between three and six months of arrears. Im satisfied 
Argos acted quickly to default Miss As account. Once the account was defaulted no further 
charges or interest have been applied.
I think Miss A should have known shed used her Argos card to make the purchase. Ive 
considered Miss As personal circumstances at the time she moved, but I still think Miss A 
should have told Argos shed moved. I dont believe Argos acted unfairly in applying the 
BNPL interest, charges or further interest when Miss A didnt repay the debt.
And I dont think Argos acted unfairly in defaulting Miss As card. Miss A owed a debt and it 
hadnt been repaid. Whilst I understand this will come as a disappointment to Miss A I dont 
believe Argos has treated her unfairly, so I dont believe it needs to refund any of the interest 
or charges or remove the default it applied.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 July 2022. 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman