DRN-1602796
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc has threatened to begin 
possession proceedings due to the unpaid balance on their mortgage current account 
(MCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs L have a repayment mortgage account with Barclays, which comes with an 
associated MCA. 
The MCA is an overdraft facility, which works like this: as capital is repaid off the mortgage, 
the overdraft limit on the MCA increases by the same amount, due to what Barclays calls 
rebalancing.  This can be spent by the borrower, through the mortgage current account. But 
its not intended to be an additional regular income stream for the borrower; nor should it be 
used to make the mortgage repayments.
Borrowers are free to repay the overdraft, in part or in full, if they wish to do so, at any time. 
Customers can pay money into the MCA if they want to, and operate it in credit. If there is a 
credit balance, interest accruing on that balance can, if the customer requests it, be offset 
against the mortgage interest. But the MCA in this case isnt in credit and so it operates as 
an overdraft facility with debit interest accruing on the outstanding balance.
The overdraft also becomes immediately repayable in full when the related mortgage 
account is repaid  either when the mortgage reaches the end of its term or if the mortgage 
is repaid sooner (for example, on sale or remortgage of the property). 
The MCA operates on an interest-only basis. Interest is currently charged on the overdraft 
balance at Bank of England Base Rate + 4.49%, except where the mortgage is a specific 
offset mortgage, where interest is charged at the offset mortgage rate. (Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage is not an offset mortgage.)
In 2017 Mr and Mrs L complained to Barclays, and then to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, that the MCA had been mis-sold. They were also unhappy that Barclays was 
threatening to take legal action because of the debt. The complaint wasnt upheld.
Mr and Mrs L have complained again about these two issues. An investigator looked at the 
complaint. He explained that wed already considered the issue about mis-sale of the MCA 
and so we wouldnt be looking at that issue again. Although the complaint in 2017 about 
Barclays taking action hadnt been upheld, the investigator noted that things had moved on 
since then, and so he was satisfied we could consider what further action Barclays was 
intending to take now.
He noted Mr and Mrs L had made proposals to reduce their overdraft, and thought it was 
unfair for Barclays to take any further action before considering those proposals.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree with the investigators findings. They still feel very strongly that 
Barclays was unfair to sell the MCA.  Mr and Mrs L have explained that they are continuing 
to reduce the overdraft, but are unhappy that Barclays can use the overdraft debt to 
repossess their home.
Barclays didnt respond to the investigators findings.
Because the matter remains unresolved, it falls to me to issue a final decision on the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from what theyve told us that Mr and Mrs L have been through a difficult time in 
recent years and that their finances got a little out of their control. I fully appreciate that this 
has been a very stressful time for them, particularly as Mr L has not been in the best of 
health.
First, I note that Mr and Mrs L made a previous complaint to us about mis-sale of the MCA 
by Barclays in 2017. An investigator issued his findings on 22 May 2017, when the complaint 
about mis-sale of the MCA wasnt upheld. Mr and Mrs L didnt dispute the investigators 
findings at the time. Mr and Mrs L have now asked if that issue can be re-considered. 
Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Ls request, but we will not be reconsidering the complaint 
about mis-sale of the MCA. The previous complaint about that was closed more than three 
years ago. It was explained to Mr and Mrs L in May 2017 that if they didnt agree with the 
investigators findings, they could ask for a final decision  and were given a date by which 
to reply. As there was no request for a final decision by the specified date, the complaint was 
closed. 
If we were to look at complaints where consumers hadnt pursued them for substantial 
periods (in this case more than three years) thered be no finality for businesses. It would 
also be impossible for us to provide an effective informal dispute resolution service, as 
complaints could run on and on without us or businesses knowing when the consumer would 
come back to us.
There has to be finality to our process and both we and Barclays thought that point had been 
reached three years ago.  Barclays was entitled to proceed on the basis that the complaint 
had been resolved in May 2017.
In the circumstances, although I acknowledge Mr and Mrs L feel very strongly about this, Im 
satisfied its not appropriate to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ls previous complaint about mis-sale 
of the MCA.
Turning now to the complaint about enforcement action, I note Barclays put this on hold 
while we consider the complaint. Of course, circumstances have changed for everyone since 
the complaint was first made to us last year, with lenders putting recovery action on hold 
during the pandemic, in line with the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
I would not expect Barclays to begin any recovery action at present, and indeed, Barclays 
has agreed with the regulator to take no action during the current situation, until at least 31 
October 2020, the date specified by the FCA. 
The mortgage is not in arrears, and the total debt owed on the mortgage, including the MCA, 
is about £60,000. Online data suggests the property is likely to be worth around £110,000, 
so Barclays security is not at risk as the loan to value (LTV) ratio is around 55%.Instead of seeking possession, I would expect Barclays to work with Mr and Mrs L to help 
them with this debt, and for Barclays to explore all available options. The mortgage has 
about nine years left to run on it and so Mr and Mrs L still have time to put in place a strategy 
to repay the overdraft.
Once the restrictions on lenders beginning possession action is lifted, Barclays would 
technically be able to begin action to recover the property because of the overdraft debt 
owed on the MCA. But I think if Barclays was to do so, given that Mr and Mrs L have been 
making efforts to reduce the overdraft, and because the LTV is so low, this would not be fair 
or reasonable if it is done without Barclays having proactively explored all the ways it might 
be able to help Mr and Mrs L.
So from a technical point of view, Barclays hasnt done anything wrong and Im unable to 
uphold the complaint. But from the standpoint of what is reasonable, given the amount of the 
debt, Mr Ls health and the current situation I think Barclays should think carefully about how 
it can help these particular customers with their financial difficulties. Barclays will be required 
to take into account the impact of the pandemic on Mr and Mrs L, as well as any future 
guidance from the FCA on what lenders must do to help borrowers affected by the 
pandemic.
Mr and Mrs L might find it helpful to speak to one of the free debt advisory services such as 
StepChange, Citizens Advice or Shelter. We can provide contact details for those 
organisations if Mr and Mrs L would like us to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman