DRN-4177214
The complaint
X complains that The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited trading as The 
Insurance Emporium (ELIC) added a broad retrospective exclusion to his pet insurance 
policy. 
What happened
In spring 2022 X took out a pet insurance policy with ELIC to cover his dog. In early 2023 he 
made a claim for a skin condition, which ELIC paid. 
In reviewing the claim, ELIC reviewed the dogs clinical history. A few days before X took out 
the policy, his vet had noted an eye condition called entropion in one of the dogs eyes and 
had recommended treatment with a lubricant. 
ELIC said X should have told it about the eye condition at the time he had taken out the 
policy, in response to this question: In the last 12 months, has your pet been seen by a vet 
for any other condition (excluding vaccinations)? If so, what for and when? If X had told it 
about the eye condition, ELIC said that it would have applied an exclusion from inception to 
say cover excludes eyes and eyelids, sight and all related conditions. 
X thought ELIC had treated him unfairly and came to us. He said ELIC should have excluded 
only entropion and related conditions. He was supported in this by his vet, who said that the 
entropion noted just before X took out the policy was still present by May 2023, but this was 
not causing any issue with the dogs eye. Xs vet concluded there could be no justification of 
a blanket exclusion for any problems with the dogs eyes. The most that would be justifiable 
would be to exclude any issue arising from the entropion affecting the dogs left eye.
Our Investigator did not uphold the complaint. X had not told ELIC about the dogs eye 
condition when he applied for the cover. Our investigator concluded that ELIC had acted 
fairly and in line with its policys terms when adding the exclusion, which was in line with 
ELICs underwriting guidelines. ELIC was entitled to decide the risks it wanted to cover and 
would have applied the same exclusion to any customer in the same circumstances. 
X asked for an Ombudsmans review. He explained that he did not dispute the insurers 
application of any exclusion. But rather he thought that ELIC had placed too broad an 
exclusion on the dogs eyes and vision. Hundreds of conditions could affect the eyes, and 
entropion is one of them. He explained he didnt expect the answer from this service to be 
that an insurer has a guide which says they can do what they want. He added that his new 
pet insurer said it will exclude only the entropion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm my review has included reading all Xs emails and his vets letter. Having carefully 
considered all the evidence, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why, focusing on the 
central issue in dispute. 
X does not dispute that ELIC was entitled to apply an exclusion for entropion from his policy, 
but he says the actual exclusion it applied was too wide in scope. 
ELICs underwriting guide shows that if X had told it about the entropion it would have placed 
the following exclusion from the policys inception date: cover excludes eyes and eyelids, 
sight and all related conditions. The underwriting guide is important because it 
demonstrates that ELIC would have treated any customer in Xs position in the same way. 
In adding the retrospective exclusion, ELIC has put X back in the same position he would 
have been in had he told X about the entropion when he applied for the policy. He could 
have chosen whether to accept the terms of ELICs policy or to take pet insurance 
elsewhere, as he has now done.  
I understand that X considers the broad scope of the exclusion to be unfair. But an insurer is 
entitled to decide the risks that it is prepared to cover or underwrite. I cannot fairly interfere 
with ELICs decision about the risk it is prepared to take when a pet has the condition of 
entropion. This is the case even if another pet insurer has taken a different view about its 
risk appetite for the same condition.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman