DRN-1671036
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs L. Mrs L is also unhappy about the way Barclays handled her recent enquiries about 
PPI. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1996. Barclays sold Mrs L the 
policy at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs L has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain 
why.
Mrs L was at first certain there was no way shed have agreed to PPI. She said she always 
made sure no to PPI was ticked, and she had no need of it because of her secure job with 
good benefits and she also had family support. 
However, Barclays sent us Mrs Ls card application form, and this did show that the option 
for PPI had been manually ticked. Its not at all surprising that Mrs L didnt remember this, as 
it was about 24 years ago. I asked the adjudicator to contact Mrs L and request her 
comments. Mrs L says: 
I must assume that someone from Barclays must have strongly advised me to tick the 
box in order to get the application approved. I would not have ticked that if I had 
realised it was optional and not necessary  
 
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having. The 
closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative to taking the 
policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said.
Also, where someone has said another person or organisation has done something wrong, 
fairness requires that the person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do 
something, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mrs Ls informed and 
willing consent. 
Ive looked at other possible reasons the PPI could have been mis-sold. But I dont think 
these apply:
Barclays says it believes it recommended the PPI to Mrs L  and this means it had a 
higher standard to meet. It had to make sure the PPI was suitable for Mrs Ls 
individual circumstances. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what 
shes told us about her circumstances at the time. The PPI could have helped pay 
the credit card bill for a period longer than Mrs Ls employment sick pay. And it would 
have paid out at the same time as any sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mrs L 
more financially secure for longer. It would have meant Mrs L wouldnt need to fall 
back on other resources so soon.  So, overall, the PPI was potentially useful. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  And I cant see any other reason why the 
recommendation was unsuitable.
 
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Barclays gave Mrs L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But I dont think full information about costs and benefits would have affected 
whether she took the PPI. I say this because, in her circumstances, its unlikely this 
information would have made the PPI seem less useful. And it doesnt look like shed 
have been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.
 
Mrs L has described the inaccurate information Barclays gave her when she was trying to 
find out if shed been mis-sold PPI. I can see that, when Barclays wrote to her in September 
2019, it acknowledged that it had made a mistake and it apologised. Although not 
acceptable, it isnt surprising that mistakes have sometimes been made when dealing with 
so many claims  many of them, such as this, concerning something that went back 
decades. I think the apology was the right way to resolve the issue. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint, for the reasons given. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman