DRN-4075597
The complaint
Miss C complains that Revolut Ltd wont refund money she lost after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In November 2022, Miss C received a phone call she believed came from a financial 
institution who Ill refer to as S. S told Miss C that her account was comprised and that theyd 
detected two transactions made in the area of Coventry earlier that day. S asked Miss C how 
she made payments to her account, and she told them through an account with Revolut and 
another financial institution who Ill refer to as L. S suggested that these accounts could also 
be compromised, saying her phone could have a virus which would give fraudsters access to 
her online banking with L. Miss C was told to transfer all her funds to her Revolut account. 
The fraudsters told Miss C that they were setting up a safe account with L which she would 
be able to move her funds back to from Revolut and that this safe account would stop the 
fraudsters from being able to track her money.
Miss C says she was suspicious and wanted to keep the money in her Revolut account, but 
that the fraudsters kept reassuring her that the call was genuine. Miss C says she received 
what appeared to be genuine messages from Revolut, that followed on in a thread of 
genuine messages she had previously received from them. As well, she got messages from 
L and a pop-up message in her Revolut banking app. 
As a result of the call, Miss C made three payments from her Revolut account as follows:
Date Pmt Transaction details Amount
15.11.2022 1 Payment to F  new payee set up £1.00
15.11.2022 2 Payment to F  pended by Revolut and cancelled 
by Miss C£4,445
15.11.2022 3 Payment to F £4,445
15.11.2022 4 Payment to F
 
Total loss£4,285
£8,731
All of the payments were made to the same payee, F  which wasnt related to Miss Cs 
name.
Miss C says that after she made the last payment the phone call with the scammers ended. 
She checked her new safe account and when she couldnt see the funds in it, thought there 
was a delay in the money going through. When she checked the following morning and the 
funds still werent showing, she realised shed been the victim of a scam and contacted 
Revolut.
Revolut declined to refund Miss Cs loss for the following reasons:
When Miss C set up the new payee, she was presented with a warning which asked 
if she trusted the beneficiary and she confirmed she did. 
When Miss C made the second payment, Revolut stopped it because it was out of 
character based on her previous account usage. They got in touch with Miss C and 
asked her about the purpose of the transfer. They say they provided Miss C with a 
warning that covered the type of scam she was falling victim to. Revolut say they also 
offered for Miss C to consult with one of their customer support specialists via chat 
before proceeding with the payment  but Miss C declined and instead cancelled the 
payment. Around 20 minutes later Miss C set up a new payment for the same 
amount and to the same payee. 
Revolut say Miss C was presented with the same warning again with the third 
payment but made the payment regardless. 
Miss C wasnt happy with Revoluts decision, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into her complaint and partially upheld it, recommending that Revolut 
refund 50% of the payments Miss C made, from payment 3 onwards and pay interest on that 
refund. The investigator felt Revolut shouldve intervened and prevented Miss C from making 
the payments, however they felt the warnings shown shouldve caused Miss C concern and 
that she had contributed to her loss by proceeding to make the payments.
Miss C disagreed with the investigators opinion. She explained that the fraudsters created 
an environment which caused her extreme stress, made her nervous and meant she was 
fearful for her money. She says this compromised her thinking process with regards to the 
warning. She also feels that Revolut shouldve blocked the payments and not allowed them 
to go through, and if they had, she wouldnt have suffered a loss. 
Miss C feels its not fair for us to rely on the warning she was shown as she feels prevention 
needs to be on a system level rather than relying on human factors. For these reasons she 
doesnt feel that she should be held liable for any of her loss.
Revolut also disagreed with the investigators opinion, saying their warnings were strong and 
targeted.
As the case couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut arent a signatory to the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model Code (the CRM Code), so I cant apply the CRM Code to these payments.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that Revolut is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into 
what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
But Revolut also has to be on the lookout for, and help to prevent, payments that could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Its not disputed that Miss C made and authorised these payments, although I accept that 
she did so as the result of a scam.Should Revolut have done more to prevent the payments?
Im not satisfied that Revolut shouldve identified a scam risk when Miss C made the first 
payment. While it was for a new payee, the payment was only for £1. So, I wouldnt have 
expected Revolut to have intervened or prevented the payment.
The second payment Miss C made was pended by Revolut as they had some questions and 
concerns about the payment. Miss C put the reason for the payment as transfer to a safe 
account and based on that, Revolut shouldve identified the scam risk and prevented Miss C 
from making the payment. As Miss C cancelled the payment, this payment wasnt processed 
so she didnt suffer a loss. 
However, based on the information Revolut had in relation to the second payment, I think 
they shouldve intervened and prevented Miss C from making the third and fourth payments. 
Especially as the payments were being made to the same payee and the pattern of 
payments, along with the selected payment purpose, made it clear that Miss C was the 
victim of a safe account scam. On that basis, Revolut should refund payments three and 
four.
But I also have to consider whether Miss C couldve mitigated her loss and therefore should 
share responsibility for the loss on these two payments with Revolut.
Could Miss C have done more to mitigate her loss?
Miss C was offered the chance to talk in-app with one of Revoluts customer support 
specialists about the payment that was pended. Based on what Miss C has told us, there is 
nothing to suggest that the fraudster had told her not to communicate with other staff at 
Revolut or L and I think Miss C shouldve had concerns and questions about why the 
payment wasnt going through if she believed the caller was liaising with Revolut and L. 
If Miss C had discussed the payment with a genuine Revolut staff member I think its more 
likely than not that it wouldve been made clear to her that she was the victim of a scam, and 
she wouldnt have proceeded with making the third and fourth payment.
Added to this, I have to take into account the warning that Miss C was shown by Revolut 
when making the second payment. This warning said:
Beware, there is a high probability that this payment is a scam. 
Before sending your money, please beware that:
Fraudsters can fake phone numbers to make it look like the genuine phone number 
of an organisation or authority
Revolut will NEVER contact you over the phone without verifying ourselves first via 
the in-app chat
Revolut and other banks will NEVER tell you to move your money into a new safe 
account
Revolut and other trustworthy organisations will NEVER tell you to ignore this 
warning
Scammers impersonate trusted organisations to trick victims into making payment to 
accounts controlled by them. Revolut will never ask you to transfer funds to a safe 
account or to ignore payment warnings. If you are at all suspicious, please stop and 
read our scam guidance. You risk losing money we may not be able to recoverThis warning is very specific to the scam Miss C was falling victim to. It specifically mentions 
safe account and the warning was shown with the first line in bold and larger letters. 
Miss C has explained how she felt during the call with the fraudsters and the impact it had on 
her emotionally and physically, however Im not convinced that is sufficient to say she 
shouldnt have read the scam warning. Especially considering the payment was pended by 
Revolut and Miss C had to actively cancel the payment, in order to set up a new payment for 
the exact same amount to the same payee around 10 minutes later.
 
I also note that Miss C also told us that she was suspicious when she was told to move her 
money back to a safe account by fraudsters, but its unclear what if any checks she made at 
that point. I think its also important to highlight that the new payee Miss C set up on her 
Revolut account and used for all of the payments she made, didnt relate to her name or to 
any of the financial institutions names. The name appears to be connected with a business 
which is unrelated to Miss C or her situation. An online search of the name wouldve brought 
up companies that are unrelated to what she was being asked to do which shouldve been 
concerning to her.
Taking all of these points into consideration as a whole, I think there was enough going on 
that Miss C shouldve had concerns when she cancelled the second payment and that she 
shouldve done additional checks on who she was talking to and the validity of what she was 
being asked to do. On this basis, Im satisfied Miss C couldve and shouldve done more to 
mitigate her loss and therefore should share responsibility for her loss with Revolut.
 
Miss C feels that prevention should be done on a system level and not rely on human 
factors. However, a balance has to be struck between Revolut identifying potentially 
concerning payments, and responding appropriately to any concerns, and minimising 
disruption to legitimate payments. 
When Revolut has identified concerns that a customer is potentially the victim of a scam, the 
expectation is for Revolut to intervene. What that intervention looks like will vary depending 
on the characteristics of the payment made and the type of risk Revolut identify. So, in some 
cases, we may say that it is appropriate for Revolut to provide a warning to the customer to 
help them identify the risk, in other cases we may say Revolut should contact the customer 
and get more information about the purpose of the payment to allay their concerns before 
proceeding with the payment. And there are some situations where we would expect Revolut 
not to proceed with the payment, as is the situation in this specific case.
 
I appreciate that Miss C doesnt agree that she should be held responsible for any of the loss 
shes suffered. But, for the reasons given above, Im satisfied that she shouldve been 
sufficiently concerned after the second payment was pended and she was given a warning 
specific to the scam she was falling victim to, that she shouldnt have proceeded with making 
the third payment or fourth payment. So, Im asking Revolut to refund 50% of the third and 
fourth payments that Miss C made and to pay simple interest at 8% a year on that refund 
from the date she made the payments until the date of settlement.
Putting things right
To put things right Revolut Ltd should:
Refund Miss C 50% of £8,730 (being the total of payments three and four)
Pay simple interest at 8% a year on the refund, calculated from the date of the 
payments until the date of settlement**If Revolut considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should also give Miss C a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint against Revolut Ltd and require them 
to compensate Miss C as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman