DRN-3309129
The complaint
Mr E has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) has unfairly declined his 
claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
In September 2017, Mr E attended a sales presentation by a business I will call 
Business P. In the presentation, he was told about a way of getting out of an existing 
timeshare he and his wife held. Mr E says he was told that Business P would arrange the 
termination of the timeshare, but at the same time he had to purchase other holiday products 
through Business P. Mr E made payments to Business P using both his Co-op credit card 
and another credit card issued by different bank. He also paid a different business (which I 
will call Business S) by a bank transfer and Mr E said this was all part of the same deal.1
Mr E wrote to Business P in January 2018 to say that he was still a member of his old 
timeshare, so liable to continue to pay management fees. He said that the agreement with 
Business P had failed, so he asked for a refund of what he had paid.
In June 2018, Mr E made a claim to Co-op under s.75 CCA, using the services of a 
professional representative (PR).2 The claim was set out in detail and I will summarise it 
here. It was said that Mr E was contacted by someone from a company I will call Business I 
about exiting his timeshare membership, something he was interested in doing. It was 
alleged that Mr E was told the termination of the timeshare would also mean he could 
recover everything he had paid toward it. Mr and Mrs E were offered the opportunity to 
discuss these services at a meeting in Tenerife, with free hotel accommodation.
When Mr E attended the meeting, he actually met with someone from Business P. As well as 
talking about timeshare relinquishment, Business P also gave a presentation about holiday 
products it provided. In particular, Mr E said that he was told:
It was guaranteed that Business P would terminate the existing timeshare 
agreement.
It was guaranteed that the termination service would take 60 days.
It was guaranteed that Business P would also make financial recovery for Mr E and 
he would receive most, if not all, of what he had paid toward the timeshare.
Mr E had to purchase the other holiday products as the termination service was only 
available to Business Ps customers.
PR alleged that the first three of those statements were misrepresentations and that the final 
one was an aggressive sales technique. In reality Mr Es timeshare was not terminated and 
he received no money back. So PR claimed for a sum equivalent to what was paid to 
Business P.
1 Although Mr E paid Business S, for reasons I will come on to, it is not entirely clear what services 
were to be supplied by that business
2 Mr E is no longer represented by PR
In January 2019, Co-op initially responded to Mr Es claim. It said that as Mr Es claim was 
for more than £30,000, that fell outside of the criteria needed to make a s.75 CCA claim. It 
also said that there were not the right sort of arrangements in place between all of the 
businesses involved for s.75 CCA to be engaged.
PR responded to explain that, although the value of the potential claim was over £30,000, 
the amount paid for the services was under that, so s.75 CCA did apply. PR also said that 
Business S and Business P were linked as they were based in the same apartment complex 
and one was used to market the others products. Both had been discussed together in a 
consumer protection television programme. 
In March 2019, Co-op further responded to Mr E. It said it could not find any error in its initial 
decision to turn down the claim. Co-op told Mr E that if he was not satisfied with the outcome 
of its investigation, he could refer a complaint to our service, which he did.
In February 2020, Mr E received an email from a third party to say that Business P had 
ceased trading and that options would be given to him to recoup any money paid (it was not 
clear whether this was money to be recovered under Mr Es timeshare claim or money paid 
to Business P for its services). At that time, Mr E had not taken any of the holidays 
purportedly available thought the purchases he had made in September 2017.
In June 2021, one of our investigators gave their view on part of Mr Es complaint. She noted 
that Co-op thought that, as Mr Es credit card had been used to pay only Business P and not 
Business S, any s.75 CCA claim could only be considered against that part of the contract 
that was funded by the credit card, i.e. the agreement with Business P. Our investigator 
thought that the sale was undertaken by Business P, with Business P providing an 
accommodation contract and agreeing to instigate a claim on Mr Es behalf to relinquish the 
existing timeshare. She thought that Business P and Business S were associates for the 
purposes of the CCA and, for parts of the sale, Business P were acting as agents for 
Business S. She thought there were the right arrangements in place to consider a s.75 CCA 
claim and invited Co-op to reconsider such a claim.
Before Co-op responded, a second investigator issued a second view on Mr Es complaint. 
He explained that he had seen evidence that Mr E had made two payments to the purchases 
detailed above  one by credit card and one by bank transfer  but they were to two different 
companies, Business P and Business S. Our investigator thought that all of the benefits 
under the agreement were sold to Mr E by Business P and, although payments were made 
to two parties, both payments arose out of the same purchase. He thought that the main 
reason Mr E met with Business P was to claim back money from his existing timeshare 
rather than to purchase further holidays. He thought Business P had no reasonable basis to 
say it could recover monies from his existing timeshare within 60 days, and it misled Mr E 
that this would happen if he purchased the package of products. This was a 
misrepresentation that induced him to take out the agreements and it was recommended 
that Co-op pay to Mr E the value of the Co-op credit card transaction and bank transfer, plus 
interest.
Co-op responded to say it accepted that there may have been a breach of contract by 
Business P as it did not provide any of the accommodation paid for. So it offered to repay to 
Mr E what he had paid on his Co-op credit card, along with the associated credit card 
interest and charges, plus interest for the time Mr E was out of pocket. It also offered to 
repay anything further for that part of the agreement if more evidence was provided of 
payment.
Co-op did not think it was liable to refund anything paid to Business S by bank transfer. It 
said this as it was not clear what this payment was for  the evidence was that the cost of the services provided by Business P was £5,000, so it was unclear why this further payment 
was made. It was also paid around a month after the agreement was entered into and the 
Business P documentation said that everything was paid for on 11 September 2017. 
Co-op also pointed out that the letter talking about relinquishment said that 20% of any claim 
monies received would be paid to Business P and there was no reference to an upfront 
payment, so it was fair to assume that this was how the claim fees would be paid. There was 
no evidence of a formal agreement with Business S showing why any payment was made to 
it and, in any event, the payment was made by bank transfer, so was not covered by s.75 
CCA.
Following this, Mr E sent more documentation. He provided evidence of a further payment 
made to Business P using a different credit card that he said was part of the same 
transaction. Also, a letter on Business S headed paper, dated 11 September 2017, providing 
details of Business Ss bank account and saying the transfer value was £4,960. Another 
Business S document, dated on the same day, said that Mr E paid £5,000 by bank transfer 
for an Exclusive Service subscription.
Our investigator considered the new information and sent a further view. He explained to 
Co-op that the new information did not change his opinion on the outcome of the complaint, 
but it did change his thoughts on the recommended payment that needed to be made. He 
thought the evidence showed that Mr E was sold a package of things by Business P, 
including the services from Business S, and the evidence showed that no claims or other 
services were actually provided, nor were they intended to be provided. He said that he 
thought Mr E entered into an agreement to buy a package of things:
An accommodation contract with Business P.
A contract for Business P to instigate a claim on his behalf concerning his old 
timeshare.
A subscription with Business S.
These were all sold by Business P in one meeting. He pointed to the fact that the references 
were the same across the agreements and the accommodation referred to in the Business S 
agreement was to be provided by Business P, so the contracts were intrinsically linked. As 
the misrepresentation made to Mr E induced him to enter into all of these agreements, and 
make the associated payments, he thought Co-op was liable to Mr E for all of the cost under 
s.75 CCA.
Mr E accepted our investigators view. Co-op disagreed. It now offered to refund the extra 
amount paid by Mr E on his second credit card, but not the amount paid by bank transfer to 
Business S. It did not agree things were sold as a single package and pointed to a view sent 
by a different investigator on a different complaint that it said backed up its position. As the 
parties did not agree with our investigator, the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, I have made my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means I have based it on 
what I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
There is no evidence from Business P or Business S, and the only evidence there is from 
the time of sale is from Mr E. He has provided all of the documentation from the time of sale, 
along with his memories. So when considering this claim, that is the only evidence there is 
available. I am mindful that his memories may not be an accurate representation of the 
precise sales process as memories are imperfect. So I have had to weigh all of that up when 
deciding what I think most likely happened. I do not think it is unfair to Co-op for me to do 
this  ultimately I must decide the complaint in front of me based on the evidence available.
When considering this complaint, I think it is important to set out what I find Mr E agreed to 
and with which business. I will then consider any legal claims that Co-op needed to consider, 
given the legal relationships between the parties. Finally, I will consider whether Co-ops 
existing offer is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
The available documents
I have seen an email from Business I to Mr E dated 22 June 2017. It contains an offer of one 
week of accommodation in Tenerife. The email contains the following passage:
1. You would expect to receive back no less than the original purchase price as 
discussed.
2. The procedure will take a maximum of 60 days and only on receipt of refunded 
monies into your bank will you be invoiced for the companies percentage of 20%.
3. The relinquishment of any timeshares or points would then follow to eliminate any 
further maintenance bills.
The email does say:
We can offer you a variety of accommodation which will be arranged at your 
discretion, and we shall look forward to speaking to you again soon as arranged.
However, it is unclear whether this sentence related to the accommodation being offered in 
Tenerife for Mr E to use when attending the meeting to talk about timeshare relinquishment 
or if it related to the accommodation contract later taken out with Business P  no mention of 
Business P is made in this email.
There is a document on Business P headed paper, dated 11 September 2017, that says:
Please take this as written confirmation [Business P] will instigate a claim on your 
behalf for the amount of £45,496 (subject to all maintenance payments being up to 
date and all paperwork in order).
All claims will be settled in full directly to yourselves, at which point you will be 
expected to pay back 20% of the total claim
Please note, from registering the claim, to having the monies paid into our client 
account, will take a maximum of 60 days.
[Business P] is not a finance company, and is currently working with a third party firm 
of Solicitors, and various advisory companies, who specialise in reclaim, to enable us 
to offer our customers this intermediate service.This reflected the conversation PR set out in the letter of claim and, I find, corroborates 
Mr Es recollections of what he was told about the timeshare relinquishment service.
There is a document on Business P headed paper called an Accommodation Contract. An 
extract reads:
Included in the initial subscription fee is 1 week of accommodation in Tenerife pre 
booked and paid for today 11th September 2017, and the choice of 2 additional week 
[sic] of accommodation in any of the Canary Islands of your choice, reserved and 
paid for today, which can be modified if required.
The reservation details show that the Tourist Agent was Business P and the price and other 
offers were agreed by Business P. The total price as £5,000 and it said payment was 
received on 11 September 2017. There is also a contract on Business P headed paper that 
gives more terms about how the accommodation was offered, including that it was prepaid 
and therefore could not be cancelled. Finally, the reference on this agreement was 
PST/1705.
I have seen a document titled Terms & Conditions on Business S headed paper dated 11 
September 2017 and signed by Mr and Mrs E. It says that once the balance due was paid, 
Mr and Mrs E were entitled to full usage of Business Ss facilities. The agreement does say:
The week of accommodation in the Canary Islands is to be used before the 
Exclusive use of the Travel Agency.
Other than that, the scope of services offered by Business S are not clear, although it 
appears to be a form of travel agency.
There is a document titled Subscription for the Exclusive Service on Business S headed 
paper and it states that a payment of £5,000 was due to be paid by bank transfer by 11 
October 2017. Details of Business Ss bank are given, although this was given with a 
different transfer value of £4,960 and reference of 1705.
Payments made
Mr Es Co-op credit card statement shows that a payment of £1,972.59 was made to 
Business P on 12 September 2017, alongside a non-sterling transaction fee of £54.24.
Mr Es other credit card statement shows a payment of £2,983.02 was made to Business P 
on 12 September 2017 (the transaction date was the day before), alongside a non-sterling 
transaction fee of £89.19.
On 16 October 2017 a payment was made from Mr Es Co-op bank account to Business Ss 
account in the amount of £4,960. The payment reference was 1705.
I do not think this is in dispute, but I find it more likely than not that these payments related to 
the agreements detailed above as they were to the same businesses and the bank transfer 
had the same reference number.
What were the agreements?
I think Mr E contracted with Business P to make a claim on his behalf in relation to his 
existing timeshare. It is not clear what that claim was actually for, but it appears that 
Business P said Mr E was entitled to get back everything he had paid toward the timeshare, which at that point was in the region of £45,000. In exchange for this, Business P would 
receive 20% of the amounts recovered and I cannot see that any payment for this service 
was made upfront, albeit that other sums were paid to Business P at the time.
Mr E also purchased some accommodation from Business P, for one week in Tenerife and 
for two further weeks in accommodation within the Canary Islands. This was paid for by the 
two credit card transactions.
Mr E also purchased a service of some kind from Business S. I find this was arranged by 
Business P, most likely acting as agents for Business S, as Mr E only recalls one meeting on 
11th September 2011 when he agreed to go ahead with the agreements. I also think these 
purchases were linked as they had a similar reference number (PST/1705 and 1705). 
Further, Mr E could only use the travel agency services of Business S after he used 
accommodation in the Canary Islands. But the only reference to such accommodation was in 
the agreement with Business P. It follows, I find that these agreements were entered into at 
the same time and at the same meeting.
Mr E has said that he had to buy the other holiday products to get the timeshare claim 
services that Business P offered. He says that he was first contacted about the timeshare 
claim services and that was the reason he travelled to Tenerife. I think this is reflected in the 
email of 22 June 2017 that was focused on that service, so I think that was a service he was 
interested in. I have not seen that there was any mention of the other services offered by 
Business P or Business S in that email, so I think the timeshare claim service was the 
primary motivation for him to meet with Business P.
I also accept that Mr P was told that he had to take out the holiday products to get the 
timeshare claim services. That is the evidence presented by Mr E and I have nothing to 
contradict that. In coming to that conclusion, I note that all of the things Mr E signed up to 
were sold at the one meeting and that there is nothing to suggest Mr E was interested in the 
holiday products in their own right  in fact Mr E was trying to exit an existing holiday 
product. I think it is most likely that Mr E attended the meeting to find out about the 
timeshare claim, was told that there was a guaranteed large pay out and agreed to purchase 
the other products to be able to get that pay out.
Was Co-op jointly responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation?
S.75 CCA states that in certain circumstances, when a debtor has a claim against a supplier 
in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, they will have a like claim against the 
creditor. So here, Mr E (the debtor) was asking Co-op (the creditor) to answer his claim for 
the misrepresentations set out above.
But this does not apply to every claim Mr E may have. Co-op is only responsible for claims 
when there is a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place. This is set out more 
fully in s.11(b) and s.12(b) CCA, but in short, there have to be arrangements in place so that 
the supplier of goods or services is paid using the credit card. In Mr Es case, he paid 
Business P directly with his credit card and it is not in dispute that Co-op could be held jointly 
responsible for any claim of a breach of the contract with Business P that arose from that 
transaction or of a misrepresentation that led Mr P into entering into agreements with 
Business P.
However, I do not think Co-op had to answer any claim for breach of contract by Business S.
That was because anything supplied by Business S was outside of the arrangements 
between Mr E, Business P and Co-op. Under the CCA, it is possible Co-op  would have to 
answer a claim if it could be shown Business P and S were associates (s.184 and s.187 
CCA). Our first investigator thought the two businesses were associates, but I am not sure that this is the case. In any event, for the reasons I will come to, that does not make a 
difference in this case.
Did Co-op properly consider the claims?
In response to our second investigators views, Co-op accepted that there had been a 
breach of contract by Business P and offered to pay back what Mr E had paid on his two 
credit cards  that was on the basis that he had not received any of the holiday products he 
had paid for. But Co-op said that it would not pay anything in respect of the payment to 
Business S. For the reasons set out above, I agree that Co-op are not responsible for any 
breaches of Business Ss agreement. And the damages normally paid for a breach of 
contract would mean that Business Ps breaches would not mean anything paid to 
Business S would need to be returned.
However, I do think Co-op needed to properly assess any claim for misrepresentation. The 
normal way to remedy any such claim would be recission of the contract entered into and 
damages to put Mr E in the position he would have been in had the misrepresentation not 
been made. So I first need to consider whether Business P, and hence Co-op, could be 
liable for a misrepresentation.
Business P made a number of assertions about how it could make a claim in respect of 
Mr Es timeshare. In particular it said a claim could be made for £45,496, that the claim 
would be settled in full and that it would be paid within 60 days of the claim being made. 
For there to be a misrepresentation there needed to be an untrue statement of fact or law 
made by one party to another, which induces the party receiving the statement to enter a 
contract, thereby causing them loss. A statement of opinion can be a misrepresentation if the 
opinion amounts to a statement of fact and it can be proved that the person who made it did 
not hold that opinion or could not reasonably have held it.
Here Mr E alleged several misrepresentations as set out in the letter of June 2018. The 
specific things Business P said would happen with any claim were clearly representations 
made to Mr E of things that it could cause to happen. But that is a statement of fact that I do 
not think was true. I think Business P must have known it could not guarantee such an 
outcome or that it had no reasonable grounds for believing it could do so. Any claim made to 
Mr Es timeshare provider was simply that, a claim, with no guarantee it would be paid or 
how much. Further, claims like that take time, so it was fanciful that anything would be paid 
within 60 days. I cannot see how Business P had any reasonable grounds to believe it could 
procure the outcome it said it would. It follows, I think that amounted to a misrepresentation.
If I think about what would have happened had Business P not misrepresented that it could 
get Mr E a sum of money within 60 days, I do not think he would have entered an agreement 
with Business P to make a claim. But I also found that Mr E was told he had to buy the other 
holiday products to make such a claim. I think the central reason he entered into any of 
these agreements was the guarantee of a large sum on money in the near future. And, had 
he known the reality that there was no guarantee of a successful claim, I do not think he 
would have entered into any of the agreements. For the reasons set out above, I find the 
primary motivation for him to buy anything, was the possibility of the claim and not because 
he wanted further holiday products. I do not think it is likely that at the same time Mr E 
separately and coincidently wanted to purchase an additional holiday product, as he was 
actively trying to terminate a different holiday product. It follows, I think Co-op also needs to 
pay the amount paid to Business S as part of Mr Es s.75 CCA claim.Putting things right
Co-op has offered to do the following for Mr E:
Rework his credit card account as if the payments made to Business P on 11 
September 2017 had not been made and pay him the extra amounts paid to the 
credit card account due to this transaction. It agreed to pay 8% per annum simple 
interest on any extra amounts he paid, from the date of the overpayments to the date 
of settlement.
Pay Mr E the sum he paid Business P using his other credit card, plus 8% per annum 
simple interest on that amount from the date paid to the date of settlement.
I think that offer is fair in relation to the payments he made to Business P, so I direct Co-op 
to make those payments. But in addition, I direct it pay:
A sum equivalent to what was paid to Business S from Mr Es bank account on or 
around 16 October 2017, plus 8% per annum simple interest on that amount from the 
date paid to the date of settlement.
By law, Co-op needs to take tax from any interest payments, so it should provide Mr E a 
certificate setting out how much tax has been paid should he ask for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Es complaint against The Co-operative Bank Plc and direct it pays 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman