DRN-1441770
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1996. Mr M says Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out  although I can understand why he cant remember this now as the sale took place so 
long ago. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mr Ms credit card application. Underneath a 
section headed optional features there is an option to select or decline PPI by either ticking 
for it or leaving it blank. Theres a tick in a box to take PPI so I think this indicates Mr M 
wanted PPI. If he didnt want PPI, he could have left the box blank.  
Lloyds has said it recommended the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr M has said he didnt need the policy. He has said he would have received at least six 
months sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to work. He has said he had another 
health/accident insurance policy but this was for his mortgage. This PPI policy for his credit 
card would cover 10% of the outstanding balance of his account for up to 12 months if he 
was too sick to work, or he lost his job. And this would be in addition to, and potentially for 
longer than, any other pay he would receive. So I still think the PPI would have been useful.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said but these points dont change my decision. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Sonia Hussain
Ombudsman