DRN-2747883
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK PLC will not refund some disputed transactions.
What happened
Mr C complained to Barclays about two transactions on his account which took place on 19th 
June 2019.  The first was to a holiday company  T  and the second was to an airline  E.  
both transactions took place within the space of five minutes and totalled just over £1100.
On 21st June, Mr C complained to Barclays. He said he had approached a travel agent in 
order to book a holiday which would have come to about £1400.  He had authorised the 
payment to be made to the agents but hadnt given his details to T or E.  Therefore, he said 
the payments were fraudulent.
So, Barclays contacted T and E.  E said Mr C had already been in contact with them and 
had tried to cancel the flight which had been booked in his name.  When he was told he 
would not be entitled to a refund, he later called back and claimed the payment was 
fraudulent.  E said it was entitled to take the payment.
T also responded with details to show a booking had been made in the name of Mr C and 
other individuals who appeared to be family members.
As a result, in its final response, Barclays rejected his complaint.  It said it was not able to 
carry out a chargeback request as it did not deem the transactions fell into a category which 
could be challenged in this way.  However, for the poor service Mr C had received, it offered 
a total of £225.
Mr C then brought his complaint to this service.  He said he wanted a full refund, to be 
compensated for the delays in Barclays dealing with his complaint and an assurance that 
this would not happen to another customer.
Our investigator didnt think Barclays should do anymore. But Mr C was not happy.  He said 
he had reported the travel agents to Trading Standards and that they were acting against the 
agents.  Once again, he stated he had not authorised the agent to provide his details to E 
and T.
So, the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make in accordance with the Payment 
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
Authorisation, for the purposes of banking transactions consists of two elements  
authentication and consent. And I remind myself that it is for Barclays to prove, on balance, 
that Mr C authorised these transactions and not for Mr C to prove he did not.
The adjudicator has already covered the issue of authentication in her view  so I will repeat 
it here briefly.  Its the use of Mr Cs genuine card details to carry out the transactions and 
Barclays has shown they were used.
The second issue is one of consent.  I think its fair to use its ordinary meaning of allowing 
something to happen - as the PSRs dont provide a definition.  So, based on what I have 
seen and heard, I must decide whether, on balance, Mr C consented to, and therefore 
authorised, these payments.
Im afraid its bad news for Mr C because I think he consented too. He accepted he had 
authorised a payment to the travel agents.  I think the disputed payments are the payments 
he authorised as they appear in his name and the names of the family members that he 
subsequently travelled with under his new booking.
Barclays has also shown that Mr C logged onto his online banking on the same day as the 
transactions and would have seen the payments had left his account.  Yet he didnt complain 
to Barclays until a few days later.  On balance, I think he would have complained 
immediately having seen the transactions if he was concerned about them.
I note that the new booking showed a flight leaving from an airport closer to Mr C.  The flight 
booked through T showed the departure airport as some distance away.  I cant be sure  
but it seems to me that Mr C may not have been happy with the departure point arranged by 
the travel agents.  But thats not a matter that I can fairly hold Barclays responsible for.
I think Mr C authorised these payments and for some reason, changed his mind a few days 
later.  In the circumstances, I cant see anything to suggest that Barclays has been unfair or 
unreasonable in holding him liable for these payments.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman