DRN-2499177
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the payments that Premium Credit Limited has collected from her 
account under a credit agreement.
What happened
Ive issued two provisional decisions on this complaint to Mrs M and to Premium Credit. In 
my first provisional decision that was dated 8 December 2020 I said:
Mrs M had agreed to pay £3,836.60 to a caravan resort park in December 2019 and 
that payment was to be made under a credit agreement with Premium Credit; 
Premium Credit sent her a credit agreement in December 2019 by e-mail which 
included a repayment schedule and which showed that the first payment of £388.16 
was already due and would be collected at or just after the end of the month and 
monthly payments of £383.16 would be collected at the beginning of each month 
from January to September 2020;
Mrs M says that she didnt receive that e-mail and that she registered for an online 
account in early January 2020;
Premium Credit collected a payment of £388.16 from Mrs Ms account at the end of 
December 2019 and was going to collect a payment of £383.16 from her at the 
beginning of January 2020 which she says would have caused her account to 
become overdrawn so she complained to it;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mrs M was aware, or 
ought to have been aware, that two payments would be collected from her account 
within two days  and I dont consider that that would have been fair or reasonable;
nor do I consider that it was fair or reasonable for Premium Credit to have taken a 
payment from Mrs Ms account before shed taken some action to show that she 
accepted the credit agreement that it had sent to her;
our investigator recommended that: Premium Credit should rework the credit 
agreement so that the first repayment was due at the beginning of January 2020; the 
payment that was to be taken from her account in December 2019 should move to 
the end of the agreement; it should remove any default charges and adverse 
information that may have been recorded about those payments; and pay her £100 
for the trouble and upset shes been caused;
Premium Credit says that the credit agreement has been cancelled, Mrs M only 
made one payment of £388.18 to it - and that was refunded to her in January 2020 - 
and that there are no arrears on her account;
as the agreement has been cancelled with no arrears and the payment that Mrs M 
made has been refunded to her, I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in 
these circumstances for Premium Credit to remove any adverse information about 
the credit agreement that it has recorded on her credit file; and
these events have caused some distress and inconvenience to Mrs M and I find that 
it would also be fair and reasonable for it to pay her £100 to compensate her for that 
distress and inconvenience.
Premium Credit responded to that provisional decision and said, in summary, that it sent four 
e-mails to Mrs M at the start of the credit agreement informing her when the repayments 
were due, they were sent to the correct e-mail address and she hadnt made it aware that 
the e-mail address was incorrect or requested for another e-mail to be sent. Its also 
provided a copy of the script that the caravan resort park, as the credit intermediary, was 
required to use when offering the credit agreement to a customer.
In my second provisional decision that was dated 21 January 2021 I said:
Mrs M made one payment to Premium Credit  which has been refunded to her  
and the agreement has been cancelled. It says that there are no arrears on her 
account and Ive seen no evidence to show that it has recorded any adverse 
information about the credit agreement on her credit file. I consider that to be a fair 
and reasonable outcome and, having carefully considered the additional information 
that Premium Credit has provided, Im no longer persuaded that Mrs Ms complaint 
should be upheld.
Its clear that Mrs M didnt properly understand when the payments would be 
collected  I sympathise with her for that and consider that Premium Credit could 
have done more to clearly explain to her the dates that the payments would be taken 
 but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it has acted 
incorrectly.
I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Premium Credit 
to pay any compensation to Mrs M for her distress or inconvenience or to take any 
other action in response to her complaint.
So subject to any further representations by Mrs M or Premium Credit, my provisional 
decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Mrs M has responded to my provisional decision in detail and says, in summary, that:
she wasnt sent a credit agreement to sign until January 2020 and has provided a 
copy of the message that she received from Premium Credit about a letter that was 
available in her online account so she couldnt be expected to start a payment 
schedule for the 1st of the month before but it had already taken one payment from 
her account in December 2019 for arrears from the beginning of that month and then 
attempted a second payment in January 2020 before shed received its message;
she hadnt agreed to or signed the agreement and was sent endless letters 
threatening her with charges and asking her to pay immediately and threatening her 
about the consequences of not paying;
she was already in ill health and receiving counselling and Premium Credit acted 
without professionalism and threatened her because it was unable to take funds from 
her bank as she had cancelled her direct debit and this isnt a case of her not 
understanding the payment schedule;
she didnt apply for credit until mid-December 2019 so she couldnt have already 
been in arrears in December 2019; and
Premium Credit has recently also deducted £372 from her account with the caravan 
park without any explanation  shes provided a statement for her account showing that payment and says that the caravan park has told her that Premium Credit 
recalled in December 2020 the payment that it had credited in March 2020.
Premium Credit says that it has looked at the statement and the entry of £372 in December 
2020 looks like a credit to Mrs Ms account, rather than a debit, and the £372 doesnt relate 
to anything showing in its records. Its provided a statement for Mrs Ms account with it 
showing all payments made and that her agreement was cancelled in March 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not persuaded that I should change the outcome that I recommended in 
my second provisional dated 21 January 2021.
Mrs M had agreed to make her payments to the caravan park using a credit agreement with 
Premium Credit and it had created a payment schedule for her to make those payments. Its 
provided evidence to show that it sent e-mails to Mrs M about that payment schedule but 
she says that she didnt receive them and didnt sign the credit agreement. 
Mrs M received a message from Premium Credit about her account in January 2020 but by 
then it had collected a payment from her and had tried to collect another. Mrs M says that 
Premium Credit sent endless letters to her and threatened her about the consequences of 
not paying  but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that it acted 
incorrectly in its dealings with her. 
Premium Credit has refunded to Mrs M the payment that it collected from her and has 
cancelled her agreement. It says that there are no arrears on her account and Ive seen no 
evidence to show that it has recorded any adverse information about the credit agreement 
on her credit file. 
I sympathise with Mrs M for her health issues and for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes experienced as a result of these events, but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Premium Credit to pay any compensation to her  or to take 
any other action in response to her complaint.
Mrs Ms statement from the caravan park shows a rent direct debit in December 2020 that 
was paid to Premium Credit for £372. I dont agree with Premium Credit that its a credit to 
her account and nor do I agree with the caravan park that its a reversal of the credit of 
£388.16 that Premium Credit applied to Mrs Ms account in March 2020. Premium Credit 
says that the £372 doesnt relate to anything showing in its records. 
The payment of £372 was applied after Mrs M had complained to this service so didnt form 
part of her original complaint and Im unable to make any findings about it as part of this 
complaint. If Mrs M now wants to complain about that payment she should first make a 
complaint about it to Premium Credit and then, if shes not satisfied with its response, she 
may be able to make another complaint to this service. My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman