DRN-2647130
The complaint
Mr H has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a claim he made 
under his home insurance policy. Mr H said damage to his roof had been caused by a storm. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr H contacted his insurer, Aviva to claim for damage to his roof which he 
said was caused by a recent storm. Mr H said hed previously noted bits of mortar had fallen 
from his roof. Recent bad weather led to larger debris falling from his roof, which prompted 
him to contact Aviva. 
Aviva instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to inspect the damage. The LA reported that recent bad 
weather highlighted existing poor maintenance of the roof. As Mr Hs policy excluded cover 
for damage caused by gradual wear and tear, Aviva declined his claim. 
Mr H asked us to look at his complaint. He wanted Aviva to repair the verges on his roof. He 
thought his claim should have also been considered under the accidental damage cover 
which he held. He believed as he had buildings insurance cover, damage caused by ageing 
and deterioration would be included. 
Our investigator didnt recommend his complaint should be upheld. He found that although 
there may have been poor weather conditions around the time of the damage, they werent 
severe enough to say storm conditions occurred. Mr Hs policy with Aviva defined accidental 
damage as being caused by an outside force suddenly and unexpectedly. The investigator 
didnt agree that the damage to Mr Hs roof was caused accidentally. 
Mr H didnt agree. He believes his claim should be reconsidered under the accidental 
damage term and would like an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy with Aviva doesnt provide cover for every eventuality. It provides cover for 
specified insured perils such as fire, theft and storm. Like all other standard home insurance 
policies, it doesnt provide cover for damage caused by poor maintenance or gradual wear 
and tear. Mr Hs policy with Aviva says the following under Important information:
It is your responsibility to look after and regularly maintain your property. Your policy 
is intended to cover you against unforeseen events like fire or theft. It does not cover 
wear and tear or damage which happens gradually over a period of time. Areas 
commonly prone to wear and tear on a building include guttering, flat roofs, fascia 
boards and boundary walls, and these should all be checked on a regular basis.
Mr Hs policy with Aviva provides cover in the event of damage caused by a storm. However, 
it sets out under the storm section what isnt covered. This says:
We will not cover loss or damage that happens gradually
As our investigator explained, we ask three questions in order to consider if an insurer has 
fairly declined a claim for storm damage. These are:
 Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
 If so, is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically 
causes? and;
 Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to all these questions is 'yes' then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of the above questions is 'no' - the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
On checking local weather reports in the days leading up to and including the date of the 
event - while there was some bad weather - rainfall and peak wind gusts werent severe 
enough to say that storm conditions occurred. So I think the answer to the first question is 
no.
The LA reported that the damage to Mr Hs pointed roof verge edge was pre-existing 
showing loose mortar. The LA said strong winds had merely highlighted its poor condition. 
He found no evidence of storm damage to the roof. 
So I think the answer to the remaining two questions is also no.
Based on the LAs findings and what Mr Hs policy says, I think Avivas decision to decline 
Mr Hs claim for storm damage was reasonable.
The accidental damage section of Mr Hs policy excludes cover for damage that happens 
gradually. So I dont think Aviva needs to reconsider his claim on the basis the damage was 
caused accidentally. 
I understand Mr H is very disappointed with Avivas decision. But I think it properly 
considered his claim and its decision to decline it was fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman