DRN-3919169
Complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) closed her accounts and then 
registered a fraud prevention marker against her.
Background
In June 2022, Miss Ls current account and savings account received five payments totalling 
just over £7,500.00. The funds were immediately transferred out to a third-party payment 
services provider. 
Barclays subsequently received notifications from the third-party banks, responsible for 
sending the payments to Miss Ls accounts, stating that the payees of the funds had 
reported being victims of fraud. As a result of this notification, Barclays reviewed Miss Ls 
accounts and its investigation led it to decide to close all of Miss Ls accounts and record a 
fraud prevention marker.
Miss L was unhappy and complained. Barclays looked at Miss Ls complaint and didnt 
uphold it. As Miss L remained dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ls concerns. He didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss L unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss L disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss L is guilty of fraud or a 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss Ls account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss L was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. 
This can include Miss L allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss Ls complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss Ls account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Barclays did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss Ls 
accounts in June 2022, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss L was complicit in allowing her accounts to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
Miss L has said that she doesnt know anything about the payments that came into her 
account and that she wasnt responsible for transferring the funds out. Indeed Miss L has 
gone as far as saying that she only opened a current account and never opened the savings 
account. Miss L also said that no one else had access to her security credentials to be able 
to get access to her account.  
Ive thought about what Miss L has said. However, given Miss L has said that no one else 
had the details to be able to log in to her account, its difficult to see how someone else 
would have been able to carry out the activity concerned. It also looks like Miss L was sent 
activation codes to set up new devices to. I appreciate that Miss L says she recall this, but it 
does seem odd that she wouldnt have noticed these messages or queried why there was a 
request to set up new devices, if she hadnt authorised this to begin with.   
Im afraid Miss Ls inability to provide a credible explanation on how her details may have 
been compromised, together with the fraud having happened on an account which had only 
been opened recently and had very little other activity on it, means that I cant reasonably 
conclude she was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely than not   
Miss L was complicit in her account receiving fraudulent funds and then being dispersed.  
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Barclays did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss Ls accounts. And it was also 
reasonably entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss L was complicit in 
this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud 
prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
I now turn to the closure of Miss Ls accounts. The terms and conditions of Miss Ls accounts 
state Barclays could close an account in certain circumstances. These included where it had 
reasonable grounds for thinking a customer commit(ted) (or attempt) fraud against us or 
someone else.
Ive already explained why I think Barclays was reasonably entitled to conclude that Miss Ls 
accounts had been used for fraudulent purposes when explaining why it didnt act unfairly in 
recording the fraud prevention marker. As this is the case, Im also satisfied that, for much 
the same reasons, the terms and conditions permitted Barclays to close Miss Ls accounts in 
the way that it did. 
So overall I dont think that Barclays acted unfairly towards Miss L and Im not upholding this 
complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss L  especially in light of the ongoing impact shes said the fraud marker is having on her. But I hope shell understand 
the reasons for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Miss L might find that shes able to open an account with another bank as long 
as she applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman