DRN-2374273
The complaint
S, a business, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc froze its bank account resulting in 
business disruption and loss.
What happened
S was contacted by HSBC as part of a safeguard review and asked to provide information 
about its business. It did so and when it received further letters saying that the review had 
not been concluded and this might lead to the closure of the account contacted HSBC. It 
received assurances that there was nothing outstanding. But on 6 July 2019 it found that its 
account had been blocked as part of the review. It complained and its account was not 
unblocked until 11 September 2019. S says that this affected its ability to replenish stock and 
trade and had an ongoing impact. HSBC initially offered to pay it £500 and increased this to 
£1,000. S says that this does not reflect the loss of profit.
Our investigator did not recommend that HSBC do anything more. He said that hed looked 
at the financial information S had supplied about the impact on its quarterly trading for the 
period involved compared to previous periods. He said that it is difficult to quantify a financial 
loss for a business that had a seasonal pattern of trade and that mostly operated on a cash 
basis. And the following quarters sales hadnt recovered even when the block had been 
removed. So, he couldnt quantify a specific loss here. The payment offered in compensation 
was reasonable and reflected the uncertainty and the number of times S had to contact 
HSBC about the review.
S did not agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed. The investigator had understated 
the lack of any action by HSBC to resolve this for nine weeks. It said that it could not meet 
customer demand during the period that the account was blocked and that this affected 
customer confidence and future sales which took time to start to recover. Having a full stock 
level in September 2019 made no difference as the damage was already done. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute here that a review which HSBC told this service ought only to have taken a 
matter of weeks was significantly delayed. And that despite the owner of S contacting HSBC 
when action hadnt been taken the account was still blocked. I agree with him that this was 
preventable.
At the time that the account was blocked S had a balance of just under £7,000 in its bank 
account. It had last bought stock using its bank card it seems towards the end of June 2019 
when it had also then made its most recent cash credit. The owner has explained that at that 
time it was a cash business trading on a market stall and that cash would be banked every 
couple of weeks. S has shown it had stock levels of over £20,000 at the time of its trading 
accounts. It says it found out about the block on 6 July 2019 when the owner went to buy 
stock using its bank card. After the account was unblocked the next time it seems S used a 
bank card to buy stock was on 26 September 2019.
S was deprived access to the money in the account. It did continue to trade it says during 
the period, but sales were down in the relevant quarter over 12% and did not fully recover in 
the following two quarters. S says sales had been growing before this at over 10% per 
annum.
I cant say that not having access to a bank account would have no impact irrespective of the 
mitigating actions S reasonably could have put in place. The difficulty as the investigator has 
said is quantifying that and separating any other factors about its trading and market trends 
at that time including any seasonal impact. And there is the need to take into account that its 
sales were made in cash and so were available funds before being banked. S is requesting 
compensation of several thousand pounds for lost profit with allowance for the time for trade 
to recover as well as for the inconvenience. Ive looked closely at what its provided. But Im 
afraid I agree with our investigator that the case for compensation for financial loss and 
especially of that amount is not made out given the number of other unknowable factors Ive 
outlined contributing to trading.
I appreciate that the owner of S contacted HSBC about the safeguard review and that this 
caused inconvenience and uncertainty. It clearly wasnt dealt with in a timely way. But frankly 
the amount now offered of £1,000 is in excess of what I might otherwise have awarded 
solely for those elements taking into account our published guidelines. 
As a financial loss cannot be fairly quantified I would have also otherwise have increased 
what Id thought was the appropriate payment for inconvenience. And here Im thinking 
about an appropriate amount reflecting also that S did not have access to the funds in its 
account and would have had to make any other arrangements possible. That involves me 
applying my judgement rather than any specific calculation. Having approached things in this 
way I have still reached that view that if HSBC pays S £1,000 in total for all the elements 
here that would be fair. I know that this will be a great disappointment to the owner of S. If it 
does not accept my decision then it remains free to pursue this in court subject to any 
relevant time limits.
My final decision
HSBC has already made an offer to pay S £1,000 to settle the complaint and I think this offer 
is fair in all the circumstances. So, my decision is that HSBC UK PLC should pay S £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman