DRN-3074086
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined a storm damage 
claim under her home building insurance policy. 
Mrs S is represented by her son, Mr S, in this complaint.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr S noticed a leak affecting the ceiling in the upper floor of his mothers home, 
following a period of heavy rain. He arranged for a roofing contractor to erect scaffolding so 
the roof could be inspected. The contractor reported evidence of weather damage 
understood to be from earlier in the year. 
Mr S contacted Lloyds to claim for storm damage under his mothers policy. A surveyor was 
sent to assess and report on the damage. The report found evidence of wear and tear to 
the roof but no damage consistent with storm damage. Lloyds declined the claim saying its 
policy terms dont cover wear and tear. 
Mr S says he accepts there is some wear and tear damage to the roof. His claim is not for 
these areas. But he says there is evidence of damage from flying debris. He thinks this 
should be covered under the storm damage clause. He is also unhappy with how the 
surveyor carried out the inspection. 
Lloyds disagreed. It found no evidence of storm damage and maintained its decline of the 
claim. Mr S referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the 
matter. She found there was evidence of storm conditions at the time Mr S thought the 
damage was initially caused - in February 2020. But she didnt think the damage caused was 
consistent with storm damage. She didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigator, but this didnt change her mind. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint. This has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I realise this will be 
disappointing news, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
My remit is to decide whether it was fair for Lloyds to decline Mrs Ss claim for the reason it
gave. Ive relied, in part, on the expert reports provided by both parties to decide whether
Mr S has shown that an insured event occurred, and whether Lloyds has shown that it fairly 
relied on a valid exclusion.
Mr S says damage was caused to parts of the roof because of strong winds during a storm. 
Although the claim was not made until July 2020, the view of the roofing contractor, and Mr 
S, is that damage had been caused earlier in the year, during a storm in February. I have 
listened to a recording of the claim call where he explains this to Lloyds claim handler. 
In assessing the evidence, I must establish whether there were storm conditions at the time 
of the claim. There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether 
an event can be classed as a storm, these are:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
     
The policy includes the following definition of storm damage:
Claiming for storm damage? We consider a storm to be violent weather like strong winds of 
55mph or more, sometimes accompanied by rain; and/or heavy snow or hail that causes 
damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass. Well take into account the condition of your home, 
as a well-maintained building should withstand all but the most severe weather events.
Lloyds has supplied weather reports for the period from 12-18 February 2020. Wind speeds 
of 55mph were reported over this period. As above, Mr S is not specific in his claim for when 
the damage occurred. He says its only when heavy rain was experienced some months 
later, that leaks were noticed. However, Lloyds agrees that storm conditions occurred in 
February, which is around the time Mr S thinks the damage occurred. So, I can be satisfied 
the answer to the first question is yes.   
Next, I must consider if the damage described is consistent with storm damage and whether 
storm conditions were the main cause of this. 
The report from Lloyds surveyor says:
The roof valleys have been repaired over the years with acropol and the lead work to the 
sides of the roof is also breaking down and the tiles themselves. The roof is approximately 
60-70 years plus. There are numerous fractures and edges missing to the roof tiles. There is 
no damage to the roof that could be seen that would be consistent with storm damage.   
Mr Ss contractor sets out extensive work required to repair the roof and says this is, Due to 
weather damage.
I have considered whether the surveyors comments are supported by the photos of the roof. 
I am not a roofing expert. But I think its fair to say the roof coverings are showing signs of 
deterioration and are clearly of some age. There is evidence of general degradation in the 
tiles and lead flashing as described by the surveyor.  
Mr S has added comments to several photos. Some where he accepts there are signs of 
wear and tear. But on one photo he points to probable impact damage where he says, 
something has hit the roof to disturb the tiles. He points to a ridge tile that is cracked, as if 
something has hit it and asks why others are not cracked. And comments on a damaged 
section of wall, which he says is inconsistent with wear and tear as though, something has 
hit the wall.
Lloyds rejects this view. It suggests the damage to the tiles is not uncommon and unrelated 
to impact damage. It says the longitudinal crack in the ridge tile is age related, caused by 
general weathering and frost damage. The wall, it says has been damaged over many years 
by the weather, including frost damage and erosion weakening the lime-based mortar. It also highlights a section of render that has fallen away from the wall because of this - and points 
at previous, poor quality attempts at repointing using cement mortar.  
I have thought about whether the photos show signs of impact damage. I havent seen 
evidence of debris or marks on the roof coverings that would indicate something has 
impacted any of these areas causing damage. I acknowledge Mr S view on this. But I must 
base my decision on the information and expert opinion provided. I think Lloyds view is 
persuasive that the damage to the roof is the result of wear and tear over time.
The policy terms, under General Exclusions say:
Uninsurable causes: A gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually 
over a period of time, for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition: 
Wear and tear.
I think Lloyds view is reasonable that strong winds have highlighted the existing weakness 
in the condition of the roof. And that if it were in a good condition its probable the damage 
would not have occurred. 
Finally, I note Mr S complains that the surveyor asked to go into his mothers house when 
Lloyds had previously said this was unlikely to be necessary. I understand there were 
concerns relating to the pandemic at this time. And I understand Mrs S, who is elderly, didnt 
know who the surveyor was and didnt want him in the house.
I can understand why this contradictory information caused frustration for Mr S. This must 
have been a difficult and stressful period for him and his mother. 
I note Lloyds did say sorry for this, but it was unable to investigate further, due to a lack of 
information.
Having considered this point, I dont think this impacted on Lloyds decline decision, but I do 
think its appropriate that it offered an apology.     
In considering all this, I think Lloyds has fairly relied on the terms of Mrs Ss policy in 
declining the claim for storm damage. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do more to resolve this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman