DRN-2553896
The complaint
Miss G says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to her irresponsibly. She said 
making the loan repayments left her with too little money and she had to borrow again to get 
through the next month. 
What happened
This complaint is about four instalment loans Mr Lender provided to Miss G between 
November 2017 and April 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 10/11/2017 £400 6 27/04/2018
2 27/04/2018 £450 6 26/10/2018
3 26/10/2018 £540 6 26/04/2019
4 29/04/2019 £750 12 17/03/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that Mr Lender was wrong to 
approve loan 4. Mr Lender disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that its checks 
showed very little other short term lending and at this stage in the lending relationship it 
wouldnt have requested further information about this. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Miss Gs complaint in part and have explained why below.
Miss G didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this, I 
dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So I wont be making a 
finding about this lending in this decision. But they were part of the borrowing relationship 
Miss G had with Mr Lender. But these loans are something I will take into account when 
considering the other loan she took.
Loan 4 was Miss Gs fourth loan in around 18 months. This was also her largest loan so far. 
And she was making a commitment to make repayments for another year at around the 
same level she had been previously. 
So, I think Mr Lender couldve realised at that time that Miss G may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Mr Lender shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew enough about 
Miss Gs true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Miss Gs actual financial situation. 
And I think that it needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to 
make sure Miss G was in position to make the repayments sustainably.
I dont think Mr Lender did this. As it said it largely relied on the information Miss G provided 
and the limited information its credit checks showed. So I need to think about what Mr 
Lender wouldve likely seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Miss G has provided some information about her financial circumstances which includes her 
bank statements. I accept that this isnt exactly what Mr Lender wouldve seen at the time. 
But I think it wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks, so I 
think its reasonable to rely on it. 
The bank statements show that that Miss G was having problems managing her money. 
Amongst other things, she was borrowing and repaying significant amounts to other short 
term lenders. And she had been doing this for some time.  
I think that Mr Lender wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. And I think Mr Lender wouldve seen Miss G wouldnt have been able repay loan 4 
in a sustainable way, this leads me to conclude that Mr Lender shouldnt have given loan 4 
to Miss G and I think shes lost out as a result of this. Im therefore upholding Miss Gs 
complaint about loan 4.
Putting things rightIn deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not approved loan 4 to Miss G.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss G may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss G in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss G would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what 
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Miss G loan 4.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss G towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss 
G which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should pay Miss G the total of A plus B.
D) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Miss Gs credit file 
in relation to loan 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if they ask 
for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Gs complaint.
PDL Finance Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman