DRN-4051118
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) treated him unfairly in 
relation to a claim he made under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75).
What happened
Ive set out below Mr Cs version of events in summary and also Nationwides version of the 
same events, also in summary.
A summary of Mr Cs version of events
Mr C wanted to protect and maintain a house which he refers to as my asset. Therefore he 
agreed to buy a wall coating treatment from a third party supplier Ill call G. (Although Mr C 
saw the property as his asset, legally the home belonged to Mr Cs father at this point.)
Mr C tells us G convinced him:
 that my walls required urgent remedial treatment to prevent rapid and costly deterioration, 
and that their wall coatings were the permanent answer with anti-crack and colour fade 
technology. 
Therefore in May 2012, Mr C agreed to enter into a contract with G for it to provide and 
install the wall coating. Mr C paid for the work using his Nationwide credit card. G provided a 
contract for the works and also a 25 year guarantee.
However, an employee of G who Ill call Mr T made several mistakes when putting the 
contract into writing. The details of the mistakes made by Mr T were as follows:
Mistake 1:
Mr T, completed the [customer] details on the agreement, but erroneously entered my 
fathers name and requested his credit card details. I told him that I was placing the order 
and would pay for the works. 
However, Mr T didnt alter the paperwork  to the extent that he did not record my 
Nationwide Credit details or my name correctly on the sales agreement. I was verbally 
assured by Mr T that none of this mattered as the agreement and guarantee was with me. 
Mistake 2:
Mr T noted in the contract that Mr Cs father had paid the deposit using his credit card. 
However, Mr Cs father paid no deposit, and neither could he have done. The amount of the 
deposit was more than the total credit limit on Mr Cs fathers credit card account. Mr C 
pointed out this mistake to Mr T, but Mr T did not think it was necessary to amend the 
agreement to remove these details.
Mistake 3:
My father signed the agreement at the behest of Mr T, because he said my father (sic) 
name was on the deeds and matching the guarantee to the deeds would make things easier 
if/when the property was sold.
G provided a contract, a guarantee and a quote. The guarantee and the quote are 
addressed to two people (with the same surname as Mr C), at Mr Cs fathers address. Mr C 
is married, and he and his wife did not live at his fathers address when the contract was 
made. Mr Cs father and mother lived together at the property when the contract was made. 
Mr C and his wife and Mr Cs father and mother all have the same surname.  Mr C says the 
guarantee and quote are most likely addressing me and my wife.
A number of years passed, and Mr C experienced some very sad life events, including the 
death of his parents. Mr C was his fathers executor, and he also inherited the house under 
his fathers will.
While Mr C was acting as his fathers executor he was contacted by a Claims Management 
Company which I will call H. This contact happened seemingly at some point in 2021. H 
told Mr C that G had ceased trading. Moreover, H told Mr C that it was in the process of 
bringing claims for misrepresentation under Section 75 for a number of Gs former 
customers. H offered to represent Mr C. Mr C agreed to instruct H.
H sent Mr Cs claim to Nationwide. Subsequently H told Mr C, Nationwide had accepted all 
claims against G on grounds of misrepresentation. 
However it then turned out that Nationwide had declined Mr Cs claim on two grounds 
a) Mr Cs claim did not meet the conditions for a valid claim under Section 75 b) Mr Cs claim 
had been brought too late and had timed out, under the rules that apply to bringing a case to 
court. So he no longer had the legal right to bring his claim. 
H decided it would no longer represent Mr C.
Mr C complained directly to Nationwide about its response to his claim. Mr C considers that 
Nationwide is mistaken on both grounds and wants it to uphold his complaint.
Mr C tells us he paid £7,500 for the wall coating works and he wishes to recover all of that 
money. Further, he also tells us he sold the house for less than it was worth due to the 
presence of the wall coating which led to the walls being in a poor condition and he wants to 
be compensated for this too.
A summary of Nationwides version of events
H contacted it in around March 2022 on behalf of its then client Mr C. H indicated Mr C had a 
claim against it under Section 75. 
Nationwide asked H more questions about Mr Cs standing to bring the claim, given the 
contractual information H had provided (which was incomplete) did not show that Mr C had 
contracted with G. Neither did it show that the property belonged to Mr C. Rather it appeared 
to it that the contracting party was Mr Cs father and that when the contract was made the 
house belonged to him. H responded that Mr Cs right to make the claim under Section 75 
arose because he was his fathers executor.
Nationwide looked at Mr Cs claim both when H sent it to it and when Mr C put in a claim 
directly, At first it declined to meet the claim on the grounds that Mr C told us about above. 
But Nationwide also sent responses that were unclear about whether Mr C was in time to 
bring his claim to court. Later Nationwide wrote to say it was declining Mr Cs claim as he 
had no standing to bring the claim under Section 75 due to not being a contracting party and 
not benefitting from the contract.
Nationwide said this about Hs assertion that it has accepted blanket liability for claims 
against G:
Were (sic) never informed [H] that wed be liable and its unclear where this statement has 
derived from.
Nationwides stance is that it has done nothing wrong and need take no further action.
What happened once the complaint came to us
Dissatisfied, Mr C complained to our service.Once the complaint was with us one of our investigators looked into Mr Cs complaint.
Our investigator pointed out that Mr Cs payments to G were actually made to a company 
that appeared to be, on the face of it, unconnected to G. Ill call this company A. Mr C 
suggested we ought to ask for any relevant internal records from G, and A and another 
company that I will call R which seemed to be an alternative name for G. But in fact G and 
R were two separate companies.
Mr C also added further details about the nature of the contract that he says he had with G. 
According to Mr C this contract was a verbal contract in part, insofar as all the mistakes 1-3 
(mentioned above) were corrected verbally at the time. Therefore the written contract was 
verbally amended.
Moreover, Mr C told us that hed been incorrect when he said his father had signed the 
contract with G, because he had not. Mr C said in fact hed signed the contract with G. 
Further, Mr C invited us to analyse the signature on the contract and compare it with his 
fathers signature on another document.
Mr C pointed out he was a beneficiary of the contract with G for several reasons. These 
reasons included because under his fathers will hed been left the house and he knew this 
at the time the contract was made. Moreover Mr C benefitted from the contract because it 
was intended to protect the walls of what he saw as his asset.
Mr C also raised new points about the enforceability of the contract with G. Mr C also told us 
that A was dormant at the time it took payment from him. Therefore he considers the fact 
that a dormant company took the payment might be fraud. With regard to the new points 
Mr C added: 
I would like the Ombudsman in addition to my specific s75 CCA 1974 claim to also consider 
whether I have additional or further claims in respect of misrepresentation and or fraud and 
or tort (fraud / economic tort) that could be held against Nationwide.
Our investigator indicated that these were new matters and that we were not going to 
investigate them. Mr C disagreed rather he thought he had already asked Nationwide to look 
at these points when he asked Nationwide in the course of his correspondence with it to look 
into my broader concerns about fairness to which I have alluded.
Our investigator did not recommend that Mr Cs complaint be upheld.
Nationwide accepted our investigators recommendation, Mr C did not. In brief, in rejecting 
our investigators recommendation Mr C reiterated his previous points.
Mr C asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. Rather, Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C has now also raised a question about the enforceability of the contract.  He has also 
asked me to consider in addition to his complaint about his claim under Section 75 his claims 
about misrepresentation and/or fraud and/or tort. These appear to be a new matters which have not been considered by Nationwide in its final response to Mr C or investigated within 
this complaint. I dont agree that Mr C raised these issues previously in his correspondence 
with Nationwide. It follows that I am unable to look at these matters in this decision as I have 
no power to do so.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. I think here 
relevant law includes the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and in particular Section 75.
Mr C and Nationwide disagree about nearly all of the key issues in this complaint. Where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances
That said, it is common ground between Mr C and Nationwide that the general effect of 
Section 75 is that if Mr C has a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract against the 
supplier he can also bring a like claim against Nationwide provided certain conditions are 
met. 
One of the conditions that needs to be met is that there would need to be a very specific type 
of agreement in place known as a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. In this instance Mr C 
would need to be the debtor, Nationwide the creditor and G the supplier but I dont think 
there is any such agreement here, that would give Mr C the right to raise a claim under 
Section 75. I say this for a number of reasons which Ill go through below: 
For Mr C to be a debtor for the purposes of the debtor-creditor-supplier agreement hed need 
to be a contracting party in relation to the contract that was financed by the credit. It follows 
then that one of the key issues is: who is the contracting party in relation to the contract with 
G? However, Mr C has given several different explanations about this, some of which are 
mutually exclusive. 
First he told Nationwide via H that his right to claim was due to representing the estate of his 
father as the executor. That would mean he was saying the estate, that is his father was the 
contracting party. Later Mr C indicated that the contract was made by his father and G and 
therefore his father signed the contract. This fits with what Mr C said about being entitled to 
bring a claim on behalf of the estate of his father. However, in the alternative, Mr C has also 
told us he signed the contract with G and the contract was varied after it was written.  With 
these inconsistencies in mind I have difficulty relying on the accuracy of Mr Cs recollections 
about this aspect of his complaint.
I think it is reasonable when trying to establish who are the contracting parties to a contract, 
to look at the contract. The written contract for the works that I have seen says the contract 
was between Mr Cs father and G. On the face of it therefore I need look no further. 
Moreover, Mr C gave strength to the premise that his father was the contracting party by 
telling Nationwide he was able to make a claim against it as the executor for his fathers 
estate, as Ive already mentioned. Ive seen no persuasive explanation as to why Mr C said 
this at first instead of saying he contracted directly with G.
Mr C indicates that the written contract is flawed for a number of reasons, for example 
because it does not include all of his fathers initials. But flawed or not (and I make no finding 
about this) the written contract indicates that the two contracting parties were Mr Cs father 
and G. Not Mr C and G.
I note that Mr C tells us the written contract does not reflect the complete contract. 
Specifically, Mr C tells us G made mistakes in the written contract in naming his father as the 
contracting party, and to correct this G and Mr C varied the terms of the contract verbally. In 
other words, the parties to the contract  who he says are himself and G  did not intend to 
record all of the terms of their agreement in the written document. Further, Mr Cs stance is that to establish what those verbal variations of contract were I should look at the wider 
circumstances. 
I certainly accept that in principle a contract can be made verbally. By their very nature such 
alleged verbal conditions are hard to substantiate, and I therefore would have to assess this 
aspect on the basis of the balance of probabilities. And I also agree when seeking to 
establish what those verbal conditions might have been its appropriate to look at the wider 
circumstances of the complaint. Im not sure whether a verbal variation after the written 
contract was made would lead to a variation of that contract or to a new separate ancillary 
contract. Neither do I see how, if Mr C on paper was not a party to the written contract in the 
first instance, he could have nonetheless agreed to vary it verbally or otherwise with G. But I 
dont need to go into these points any further because of what I say below about the 
relevance of verbal contracts to this complaint.
I think it is something of a red herring to look at verbal contracts here. Because when I look 
closely at what Mr C tells us happened, he is not really saying the contract was a verbal one 
or a part verbal contract. Rather he is saying the written contract should have been in his 
name from the beginning but G by mistake substituted his fathers name and credit card 
details for his. So, Mr C indicates, I should consider the impact of a mistake in the formation 
of contract. But before I do that I have to think about whether it is likely any such mistake 
was made.
The parties to a contract are fundamental terms of any contract. I find it unlikely therefore 
that G would have made a mistake about this. Moreover, I find it likely, given the nature of 
the contract, that G would have contracted with the owner of the property, who was Mr Cs 
father not Mr C. I recognise Mr C tells us he had subjective reasons for considering the 
property his asset at the time. But none of those reasons made him the owner of the 
property, and neither did those reasons give him the legal right that an owner would have to 
make a contract in relation to the property.
I also note that mistake 1 and mistake 3 contradict each other. In the scenario under 
mistake 1 there was never any intention for Mr Cs father to contract. But according to the 
scenario under mistake 3, Mr Cs father signed the contract to avoid future complications. So 
it was the intention that Mr Cs father should contract and therefore sign the contract. These 
contradictions undermine the weight I feel able to place on either scenario.
Further, the question of who actually signed the contract further undermines Mr Cs 
suggestion he was meant to be the contracting party. At first he said his father signed, then 
he said he signed. I should think Mr C might have remembered in the first instance who 
signed the contract. But instead he has given two different contradictory versions of this 
simple point.
I also find it likely that if G had made a mistake about who it was meant to contract with, and 
this was pointed out immediately, it would have amended the contract in writing there and 
then. The fact that it did not, leads me to think that there was no mistake.
Moreover, Mr Cs father seemingly made a payment towards the contract. Mr C says actually 
no payment was made by his father despite what the contract says. But even if this were the 
case, I cant see why Mr Cs father would have provided his credit card details to G if he did 
not intend to contract with it. This too militates against what Mr C has told us about him 
being meant to be the contracting party.
The question of mistakes in the formation of the contract aside, Mr C invites me to look 
further than just the contract to take account of pre- and post-contractual documents. Mr C 
points to the quote and the guarantee from G, which are addressed to Mr and Mrs C, at 
Mr Cs fathers address at the time. Mr C says these documents were addressed to him and 
his wife. I cant see why G would have written to Mr C and his wife at his parents address, or 
why G would have written to Mr Cs wife at all. But I can see why G would have written to Mr 
Cs father and his mother, at their own address. I find it more likely than not that these documents were addressed to Mr Cs father and his wife, this again supports the notion that 
Mr Cs father was the contracting party.
I dont find that being a beneficiary of a contract would make Mr C a debtor for the purposes 
of the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship. But in any event, Im not satisfied Mr C was a 
beneficiary of that contract with G simply because he tells us he was named in his fathers 
will (that could have been revoked at any time) as the person who should inherit the 
property. Or because one of the reasons Mr C wanted to maintain that property was 
because he saw it as his asset. In any event, Mr C says he contracted directly with G. He 
does not appear to be relying on saying he is beneficiary of that contract. And even if he is 
saying this then, that would contradict what he tells us about being a contracting party in his 
own right.
For all of these reasons I find that on balance Mr C does not meet the conditions to bring a 
valid claim under Section 75 against Nationwide.
It follows that Mr Cs claim for losses including the loss he says he made when he sold the 
house falls away, given my findings above.
For completeness Ill add the following points, but Ill make no findings about them as I do 
not need to do so.
Mr Cs payment went to A not G. Therefore for this reason too I might have found that there 
was no debtor-creditor-supplier agreement that would have enabled Mr C to bring a valid 
claim under Section 75.
Further, Ive not seen any uncontested evidence that demonstrates that a misrepresentation 
was made. And Id need that information to uphold this complaint. All I have seen is that H 
told Mr C that Nationwide had agreed to uphold claims about G on the basis of 
misrepresentation. Nationwide certainly has not said any such thing in relation to this 
complaint quite the opposite.  And the onus would be on Mr C to demonstrate 
misrepresentation had occurred such as would give rise to a claim by him against G and a 
like claim against Nationwide.  
The question of whether Mr C has lost the right to go to court is not something I need to look 
at and appears irrelevant to this complaint and is not something I could decide on. Moreover 
it is not even clear if Nationwide is still raising this objection.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman