DRN-3552807
The complaint
Ms H and Miss M are unhappy with the handling of a water damage claim by Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited under their home insurance policy.
Ms H has dealt with the matter throughout so for ease Ill refer to her in the decision.
What happened
Ms Hs property suffered water damage. Ms H contacted Lloyds to make a claim. She 
pointed out to Lloyds from the outset her medical concerns and that she had vulnerable 
family members living with her. An inspection was arranged. The Lloyds appointed initial 
expert couldnt find the leak and referred Ms H back to Lloyds to discuss trace and access 
arrangements due to the difficulty getting into areas and finding the leak. Because of these 
issues Lloyds appointed a Personal Claim Consultant (PCC) to inspect the damage. But the 
PCC didnt accept the claim and the policy was voided. Lloyds said the claim wasnt 
covered, damage appeared to be historic and before the policy was taken out and Ms H 
hadnt disclosed several previous claims. Lloyds said due to the voidance it would refund the 
premiums.
Ms H wasnt happy with this and after she originally complained Lloyds reconsidered and 
removed the voidance, reinstated the policy, and agreed to reconsider the complaint. It also 
paid Ms H £325 compensation for the failings she had to contend with up to that stage.
But issues continued. Ms H said she was waiting on a copy of the report from the PCC and 
an update as to what action Lloyds was going to take to deal with her claim. Ms H made 
attempts to contact the PCC. But in the end Lloyds confirmed it still wouldnt be dealing with 
the claim. It said the PCC had done everything right regarding the claim decision and there 
were no errors in the way the claim was accessed. But it did offer a further £75 and 
apologised for not providing a better service and admitted that it could have been more 
proactive. Ms H remained unhappy with this and brought a complaint to this service about 
the claim handling, poor service, and delays.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there was no evidence of an insured 
peril causing the damage. There was no record of storms in the area in the run up to the 
claim. Our investigator noted Ms Hs plumbers report said the overflow pipe was faulty due 
to wear and tear, which is excluded under the policy. He also accepted Lloyds position that 
the damage was gradual and had been happening over a period of time rather than a one off 
event.
Ms H didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note and understand Ms Hs points about her health, family medical conditions and 
vulnerabilities which she pointed out right from the start of her dealings with Lloyds. Also, Ms 
H had her roof repaired at her own cost due to the damage, but this has caused her financial 
hardship.
I can understand why Ms H was upset with Lloyds. Its clear that her home life has been 
affected by the water damage. And theres no doubt Lloyds could have and should have 
provided a better service. Its clear there were some delays and sometimes the 
communication between the parties should have been better. But I think the key issue is that 
Ms H really wanted Lloyds to deal with the water damage claim and for it to pay for the 
repairs.
In terms of the claim Lloyds said following its inspections and investigations the water was 
getting into the property via the roof. Lloyds said there was no insured event. It said the 
works undertaken indicated this was a maintenance issue and the damage was due to wear 
and tear as it had occurred gradually. Lloyds has confirmed that these events are excluded 
within the policy wording.
Ms Hs plumbers report said the ball cock and the overflow pipe were faulty. The plumber 
said this was caused by wear and tear. Regarding this Lloyds said:
We are sorry that were not able to accept your entire claim. This is because your policy 
covers the damage caused by the water only under the Leaking Oil or Water & Freezing 
water section of your policy only.
We are unable to cover the repair of the leak itself because repairing the damage caused to 
the home appliance or fixed water or heating system is an exclusion on the policy. Examples 
of home appliance or fixed water or heating systems are tanks, pipes, washing machines, or 
water mains.
So, I think all the evidence points to Lloyds reasonably declining the claim.
In terms of the issues with service and handling. I think its clear that Lloyds should have 
done better here. There were some delays. But I note that it has apologised and offered a 
further £75 as compensation. I think thats fair in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no further award against Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman