DRN-3386147
The complaint
The estate of the late Mrs R complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (JP Morgan) didnt 
protect the late Mrs Rs funds from fraud. 
What happened
What the late Mrs Rs estate say
The estate of the late Mrs R say that they were advised by the solicitor who dealt with the 
late Mrs Rs estate that her account with JP Morgan (and another account with a different 
bank) had been cleared of funds. After obtaining statements the family found that from 2016 
to 2018 around £29,500 had been removed from the late Mrs Rs account in cash 
withdrawals. 
The estate of the late Mrs R say that her health deteriorated in 2016 and that in early 2017, 
following a mental capacity assessment when she was deemed to lack capacity, she was 
admitted to a care home. The late Mrs R was also registered blind and had hearing 
difficulties. The estate has provided bank statements and say that in 2014/15 the late Mrs R 
mainly saved but that the activity on the account after that changed dramatically with regular 
cash withdrawals. The family believe that the late Mrs Rs partner, Mr B, was responsible for 
withdrawing funds without the late Mrs Rs consent and that he is guilty of fraud by abuse of 
trust. The estate say the late Mrs R cant have given her consent to the transactions given 
her state of health and refer to an entry in her medical records which says Mr B couldnt 
understand most of what she said. 
The estate has brought this complaint as the family believe JP Morgan shouldnt have 
allowed the cash withdrawals and should have questioned the change in account activity. 
What JP Morgan say
JP Morgan says that all the disputed cash withdrawals were made using the late Mrs Rs 
valid card and PIN. It has referred to the terms and conditions of the account in terms of 
keeping the card and PIN safe, checking statements and notifying it of unauthorised 
withdrawals within 13 months of the debit date. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She 
noted that its not now possible to say what the late Mrs Rs intentions were and so she had 
to consider what was most likely. After careful consideration the investigator concluded the 
late Mrs R consented to the disputed cash withdrawals and either made them herself or 
allowed Mr B to do so. One of the main reasons for this was that all transactions required the 
late Mrs Rs card and PIN. 
The investigator also didnt believe the disputed transactions were so unusual that JP 
Morgan should have intervened. And JP Morgan wasnt informed that the late Mrs R was 
vulnerable so had no reason to put additional measures in place to protect her. Given her 
vulnerability though, the investigator thought that even if JP Morgan had contacted the late 
Mrs R, it was hard to tell what she would have said. Finally, the investigator noted it was her 
role to assess whether JP Morgan did anything wrong and not to consider how the funds 
were used.
The estate of the late Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for a 
final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me. In summary, they said:
- The late Mrs R couldnt have given authority to withdraw funds as she couldnt speak 
coherently. They refer to medical records which record that Mr B said he couldnt 
understand her most of the time. The late Mrs R was also registered blind and had 
dementia. 
- Given that the late Mrs R was placed in a care home because of a lack of mental 
capacity the estate believes her assets should have been safeguarded.
- The amount withdrawn in cash from the late Mrs Rs account greatly exceeded the 
amount someone in their late nineties would need and there was a massive shift in 
spending from 2016 when her health started to deteriorate. 
- The fact the late Mrs R needed an appointee on the account indicates vulnerability 
and should have been a massive red flag. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the circumstances that have led to this complaint. I also understand the 
strength of feeling in this case. What I need to consider is whether JP Morgan has acted 
reasonably in its administration of the late Mrs Rs account and in processing the disputed 
transactions. 
The estate of the late Mrs R believe that Mr B was appointed to manage Mrs Rs account 
and that in light of this JP Morgan should have taken additional care. But JP Morgan has 
confirmed there was no third-party management of the account. 
Whilst the estate has provided evidence in relation to Mr Bs character, including that he 
committed insurance fraud and failed to pay care home bills, I cant reasonably say this 
means he also financially abused the late Mrs R. As the investigator said, the reality is that 
we will never know the intentions of the late Mrs R, so I need to base my decision on the 
evidence and what is most likely to have happened. 
Ive carefully considered whether JP Morgan should have been on notice that the late Mrs R 
might be the victim of financial abuse given the transactions on her account. I agree that the 
number of cash withdrawals from the account of the late Mrs R increased from around 
March 2016, but I dont consider the activity was so unusual that JP Morgan should have 
intervened and asked questions about why funds were being withdrawn. 
Generally, JP Morgan can hold the late Mrs R liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that she made or authorised the transactions 
herself. The evidence provided shows that the late Mrs Rs card and PIN were used to make 
each transaction. This means that either the late Mrs R was present when the transactions 
were completed or  which I consider to be more likely given the late Mrs Rs state of health 
 someone else completed the transactions. What I need to consider is whether the person 
who made the withdrawals did so with the late Mrs Rs authority  whether actual or 
apparent - or not. 
On balance I consider the late Mrs R authorised the transactions by giving Mr B access to 
her card and sharing her PIN to complete the transactions. Whilst I accept it would have 
been possible for a third party to get hold of the late Mrs Rs card, Ive not been provided 
with any explanation as to how a third party (including Mr B) would also have known her PIN 
unless she shared it. 
The estate of the late Mrs R has said she couldnt have provided her consent because she 
could no longer speak coherently and have referred to medical records from December 2015 which say Mr B couldnt understand her most of the time. Whilst Mr B didnt understand the 
late Mrs R most of the time, this doesnt mean it wasnt her intention to allow Mr B access to 
her funds or she wasnt able to communicate her PIN to him.
Having carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think I can fairly 
criticise JP Morgan for processing the cash withdrawals from the late Mrs Rs account that 
have been highlighted by her estate.  
The estate of the late Mrs R has told this service that the late Mrs R was vulnerable and that 
she had dementia, was registered blind and was hard of hearing. They have also questioned 
why JP Morgan didnt pick up on the increased expenditure at a time when the late Mrs Rs 
health deteriorated and she spent time in hospital and was then admitted to a care home in 
2017 because she lacked mental capacity. Ive carefully considered JP Morgans contact 
notes and cant see any evidence that it was told of the late Mrs Rs deteriorating health or 
lack of capacity, or the fact she was admitted to a care home. In fact, there was no contact, 
other than to send statements, from 2012 to 2020 when JP Morgan sent notice of account 
dormancy letters. In the circumstances, I dont consider JP Morgan could have done more to 
protect the late Mrs R from possible financial harm. There were no other indicators I think it 
should have picked up on either - JP Morgan wasnt, for example, informed of a change of 
address when the late Mrs R went into the care home. 
The family of the late Mrs R have referred to the fact that more was withdrawn from the late 
Mrs Rs account than she could possibly have spent given her age.  Im not persuaded it was 
JP Morgans responsibility to put any blocks on the amount the late Mrs R could withdraw 
from her account though, particularly given it was unaware of her state of health. If JP 
Morgan had been told that Mrs R lacked capacity then it could have discussed next steps, 
but it wasnt. The estate has also raised the fact that funds were withdrawn after the death of 
the late Mrs R in January 2020. But given that JP Morgan wasnt notified of her death until 
January 2021 I cant hold it responsible for these transactions. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to hear of the circumstances of this complaint, I consider JP Morgan 
has acted reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman