DRN-3580764
The complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) cancelled a direct debit for a credit 
card account which led to fees and a marker on his credit file.
What happened
Mr B says following his bank account switch from another bank to Nationwide in October 
2021, he discovered Nationwide had cancelled a direct debit to a credit card account without 
his knowledge and this resulted in him being charged a late payment fee, interest and a 
marker being placed on his credit file affecting his credit score. 
Mr B wants Nationwide to refund the fees and interest he was charged and to correct his 
credit score. 
Nationwide says that his account switch completed in October 2021 and since that time no 
direct debits to the credit card provider have been claimed. Nationwide says it received a 
request from the credit card provider to cancel the direct debit in January 2022 and has done 
nothing wrong. Nationwide says it did pay Mr B £30 for not getting back to him as promised 
when he initially raised the issue.
Mr B wasnt happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Nationwide provided evidence to show it had received instructions from the 
credit card provider to cancel the direct debit in January 2022. The investigator felt 
Nationwide had acted reasonably when it paid Mr B £30 by way of an apology, for not 
getting back to him within the promised timescale. The investigator felt Mr B might wish to 
raise a separate complaint with the credit card provider about the direct debit.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr B to learn his direct debit to his credit 
card provider had been cancelled without his knowledge, leading to fees and interest being 
charged by them and a marker on his credit file. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Nationwide were responsible for cancelling 
the direct debit to Mr Bs credit card provider. 
Mr Bs complaint centres around the fact he believes Nationwide incorrectly cancelled a 
direct debit to his credit card provider and those actions led to him being charged fees and 
interest and a missed payment marker being registered on his credit file, affecting his credit 
score. 
I understand the points Mr B has made, but here we have received by way of evidence from 
Nationwide an extract from its computer records indicating the direct debit was in fact 
cancelled by the originator, Mr Bs credit card provider in late January 2022 and not them.
So while I understand Mr Bs frustration as he seems to have been informed otherwise, I am 
satisfied in all probability the direct debit wasnt cancelled by Nationwide, in fact we have 
been provided with evidence to suggest the direct debit was set up by Nationwide when the 
bank account switch took place in October 2021, but the originator never collected any 
payments leading up to its cancellation. 
With that in mind I cant say Nationwide have made an error here and although it didnt 
respond to Mr Bs initial enquiry when it promised to, it has paid £30 by way of compensation 
for that, which Im satisfied is reasonable here. 
The investigator has suggested to Mr B if he wishes to raise a complaint to this service about 
the credit card provider, then he would need to raise a complaint with that business first- so I 
will leave that with Mr B to consider.
While Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Nationwide 
here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman