DRN-3401271
The complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank wont make any 
form of refund for a payment made on his credit card.
What happened
Mr B says he paid £525 in November 2020 towards the purchase of a car. He also part 
exchanged a car and paid the balance using his account with another bank. Mr B says the 
total cost of the car was £2738. Mr B says issues with the car manifested within thirty days of 
buying the car, but the supplier wouldnt help. Mr B says he took the car to a separate 
company and had to pay over £1000 to get the car fixed. 
In January 2021 Mr B engaged legal support who wrote to the supplier who Ill call Firm L 
(who traded under a trading name). But this didnt lead to a successful outcome for Mr B. 
Unhappy that hed had these problems and had to pay this money to fix the car Mr B then 
took his complaint to Tesco.
Tesco responded to Mr B that it could not establish that the required relationship was in 
place for it to consider a Section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. So it said it 
couldnt proceed with Mr Bs claim. So Tesco concluded it didnt think it could help. 
Mr B didnt think this was fair, so he brought him complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into the matter. Overall, he didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly by declining Mr Bs 
request for a refund. Mr B didnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make very clear that this decision is not about the Supplier (Firm L), which isnt a 
financial services provider and so doesnt fall within my remit.  Whatever the issues there 
maybe with Firm L or the car and just because Mr B feels hes lost money, it doesnt 
necessarily follow that Tesco has treated Mr B unfairly. 
Tesco role in the matter is to be considered in two ways. Firstly under its obligations the 
Chargeback rules in place and secondly with regard to its consideration of Mr Bs S75 claim 
to it and whether it considered the claim appropriately. 
Mr B says he made the transaction for the car at the time and received the car. Ive 
considered the transaction itself, and having done so, Im satisfied the transaction was 
properly authorised by Mr B and correctly applied to his account with Tesco.
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a chargeback? 
The Chargeback rules are under a voluntary scheme run by the card network and 
consumers do not have a right to a chargeback being raised. It is however the case that this 
Service considers raising a chargeback to be good practice where it has a reasonable 
prospect of success. I dont think Tesco couldve challenged the payment on the basis Mr B 
didnt properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusions on this issue that Ive already 
set out.
Tesco is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. Tesco didnt raise a 
chargeback here. Its position is broadly that it couldnt get sufficient evidence to properly 
consider the dispute Mr B has with Firm L, as this is its position with regard to Section 75. 
Having looked at the timeline of events I think Mr B brought his dispute to Tesco within the 
time limits set out in the network rules. However for the reasons Im about to explain in 
relation to Section 75 Im not persuaded that a chargeback would have been successful had 
Tesco raised a chargeback when it learned Mr B had a dispute with Firm L. So I dont think 
Mr B lost out as a result of Tesco not raising a chargeback.
Mr B used his Tesco credit card to pay this transaction. This means that if certain criteria are 
met, Tesco can have certain responsibilities to Mr B which arise from the relevant law, 
specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In summary in certain 
circumstances Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr B to hold Tesco liable for breaches of 
contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement made. In essence Tesco 
can be held responsible for a like claim against Firm L.
Section 75
There are criteria to be met here if a S75 claim is to be successful, namely in respect of 
financial limits and with regard to the Debtor /Creditor/ Supplier relationship. Based on what 
Mr B has said and the evidence of the transaction Mr B has provided I think this claim fits 
within the financial limits set out in the CCA.
Tesco in its original response to Mr B it said it didnt have enough to establish the Debtor 
Creditor Supplier relationship required in the CCA was made out. And consequently it hadnt 
gone on to consider whether breach of contract or material misrepresentation were made out 
either. Tesco has latterly clarified to this service that its not refusing to consider the claim but 
rather simply could not do at that time considering the lack of supporting evidence.
Mr B has provided no documentation from the purchase of the car. All that has been 
provided is evidence of payments and evidence of repairs. No sales invoice or similar has 
been provided by Mr B and I can see Tesco has asked Mr B for such evidence to support his 
claim.
I note that Mr B has provided copies of letters sent to Firm L. I can see the transaction name 
on the receipt shows a similar name. I also note Mr B has provided a letter from a firm with a 
similar name saying it has had nothing ever to do with Mr B but is aware of another firm 
trading under a similar name and that it has made efforts to stop the other firm trading with a 
name so similar. It offers to talk to Mr Bs representatives and provides a number to call on. 
Mr B says that this letter is disingenuous.
Ive considered the evidence provided to Tesco by Mr B. Firstly it is correct that Mr B has 
provided very little information about the purchase other than Ive described above. It is not 
clear that the name on the transaction receipt and who Mr B says he bought the car from are 
the same entity. This is specifically denied by the firm that sounds very similar to Firm L. And 
I note that the other firm is listed on Companies House and the signatory of this letter and 
their address matches information available on Companies House. So Im not persuaded 
Tesco has treated Mr B unfairly by saying it didnt have enough to establish that the required relationship between Debtor Creditor and Supplier was in place bearing in mind the lack of 
clarity as to who the Supplier actually was.
And as Tesco has stated, its willing to consider a claim from Mr B if he can provide more 
evidence to it. Mr B has said hes disappointed that a contract of sale hasnt been found. 
However a Section 75 claim is in essence a like claim to that Mr B has against the supplier. 
That means the onus is on Mr B to show that he has a valid claim against the supplier to 
Tesco. But hes not shown what was advertised, who the supplier was or evidence to 
support what he says that transaction paid for. All hes shown is he paid money at that time.
In addition Tesco to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown 
that the supplier either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mr 
B which was untrue and that him fair reliance on that untruth led to loss. Mr B hasnt 
persuasively demonstrated that he was duped or lied to in order to get him to enter the 
contract to buy the car, so Tesco cant be responsible for any misrepresentation here. We 
dont have the car sale contract and have no persuasive evidence showing how the car was 
described when advertised. Its clear that the car was over a decade old and had a significant 
mileage. So what would be considered satisfactory quality in those circumstances would be 
different to a new car for example. And the evidence of repairs is vague and undated. There 
is no independent inspection of the car prior to the repairs or other contemporaneous 
evidence to show it was unsatisfactory in light of its age and mileage.
Mr B says the real merchant is identified by the card machine receipt. I dont agree. What is 
shown on such card machine receipts isnt always the legal name or trading name of the 
party to the transaction. Its the account name the merchant acquirer or card network has for 
that account and the name shown is often very different to the legal name of the entity of the 
party to the transaction. So I dont think that argument is persuasive.
Mr B says theres evidence of the car he part exchanged being sold later. That might be the 
case. But that doesnt demonstrate Tesco has treated Mr B unfairly by asking him for 
evidence around who he bought the car from and surrounding evidence from the sale. And it 
should be remembered it is for Mr B to provide enough evidence for Tesco to be able to 
properly consider his claim. And Im not persuaded he has.
All in all Im not persuaded Mr B has lost out because of what Tesco has done here in terms 
of its position regarding S75 or chargeback. Having considered what happened Im not 
persuaded it needs to do anything more. Accordingly Mr Bs complaint does not succeed.
I do empathise with Mr B for what has happened here. And I appreciate that Mr B feels 
strongly that hes lost out. And it maybe that he has suffered due to whoever sold him the car 
was doing so dishonestly. But the simplicity of the matter is Mr B has provided very little 
persuasive evidence to support his dispute with whoever sold him the car. And Tesco hasnt 
treated him unfairly by not refunding him. And Tesco has made clear that it would consider 
the claim were Mr B able to provide persuasive evidence to it. But to date Mr B hasnt 
provided such evidence. So his complaint here is unsuccessful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank. It has nothing further to do at this time.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2022.
 Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman