DRN-4327595
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund several transactions 
he didnt make or otherwise authorise from his account with it over a number of years. He 
says his ex-partner made the payments during that time from his account without his 
knowledge or consent. 
Mr H is being represented by Mrs S in bringing this complaint. 
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties and were also set out by the 
investigator previously, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill provide a brief 
overview and focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
Mr H says that between 2013 and 2020, unbeknownst to him, his ex-partner transferred 
nearly £39,000 out of his account into hers over a series of transactions. She also applied for 
loans in Mr Hs name with other lenders without his knowledge of consent  this has been 
considered separately and isnt the subject matter of this complaint. Mr H explains his 
ex-partner withheld his current account statements for several years and he didnt know 
anything about the payments until 2021, when he requested a few years worth of 
statements from Barclays. Mrs S has also told us that Mr H and his ex-partner were together 
a long time and they were happy, up until a couple of years ago.    
I issued a jurisdiction decision a couple of months ago explaining that our service can only 
consider Mr Hs complaint about disputed transactions which happened from 25 June 2015 
onwards, bringing the loss being claimed to around £29,000. I passed the case back to the 
investigator to consider the merits. The investigator didnt think the transactions could have 
been carried out without some involvement from Mr H. So, they didnt consider it fair to ask 
the bank to refund the disputed transactions.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr H and Mrs S for letting us know about Mr Hs circumstances during the relevant 
period. Im sorry to learn that hes gone through a difficult time and checking his statements 
wasnt a priority for him during the relevant period. Its understandable that he and Mrs S feel 
very strongly about what has happened. Id like to reassure them and Barclays that I have 
considered everything thats been submitted in its entirety. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Did Mr H authorise these payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) relevant at the time of the disputed 
transactions, the starting position is that Mr H is liable for payments he authorises. The 
PSRs specify that authorisation depends on whether the payment transactions were 
authenticated correctly  and whether the account holder consented to them.
It seems to be agreed that the disputed payments were properly authenticated. They were 
carried out using Mr H online banking security credentials. Whether Mr H also consented to 
them depends on whether he completed the agreed steps to make the payment. Or if 
someone else acted on his behalf (an agent) and used those agreed steps.
Agency can be created not only by the bounds of the actual authority granted by the 
Principle, but also by the acts of the agent which appear to have been made with the 
principles authority.
Mr H says he didnt make these payments and didnt share details to allow someone else to 
make them. But as the investigator explained, for someone else to obtain Mr Hs 
personalised log-in credentials, these would have needed to be shared with them. Or, if it is 
the case that his ex-partner set up a new device to access Mr Hs account (theres a 
suggested she used an iPad), certain pieces of information would still have needed to be 
shared by Mr H to enable this to happen. For example, card details, activation and 
verification codes which would have been sent to Mr Hs registered mobile to complete the 
registration process. 
This means that, on balance, the payments were made by someone Mr H shared his 
security information with. While he may not have been aware in advance of the payments, 
I think they would still fall under apparent authority. And although he didnt check his 
statements, hes told us he checked his account balance every so often when he made cash 
withdrawals. I think he ought to have noticed any discrepancies in his account balance if he 
wasnt expecting these transactions to take place. I cant see that Mr H took any steps to 
revoke the authority created for someone else to make payments from his account. And so, 
the starting position is that the transactions would be considered authorised by Mr H, and its 
fair to hold him liable for them.
Is there another reason why Mr H shouldnt be held liable for the payments?
As explained above, customers are generally liable for authorised payments. But there are 
some situations where we believe that firmstaking into account relevant rules, codes and 
best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked at the wider 
circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment.
Ive considered if Barclays ought to have identified a fraud risk when these payments were 
made. Im not persuaded it should have. This pattern of several transactions to Mr Hs 
ex-partner spread across the month existed for a long time. The size of the payments didnt 
appear out of line with Mr Hs usual spending.
I therefore consider it reasonable that Barclays processed the payment instructions it 
received, in line with its duty to promptly execute authorised payments without undue delay. 
It had no reason to suspect that something untoward could have been happening  so isnt 
liable for her loss.
I realise that this will come as a significant disappointment to Mr H and Mrs S, not least 
because the matter has been ongoing for some time. But for the reasons set out above, 
I dont think Barclays needs to refund the disputed transactions. The bank has, however, recognised some customer service failings and has offered £50 
compensation in recognition of this. If it hasnt already been paid, Mr H will need to contact 
Barclays directly if he would now like to accept this payment.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman