DRN-3898770
The complaint
Ms D complains about the service she received from TSB Bank plc with regard to an 
account that should have been closed in 2018. 
What happened
Ms D understood TSB had closed her account in 2018. Ms D was content for the account to 
be closed and to remain closed at that time. 
Sometime later, TSB sent two debit cards to Ms Ds old address, which was still occupied by 
a family member. Ms D says that a TSB adviser suggested someone may have fraudulently 
opened an account in her name and that it could have been a family member or friend. Ms D 
later received an email from TSB to say that online access to her account had been 
suspended. As far as Ms D was concerned, her relationship with TSB had ended in 2018. 
Ms D then submitted a complaint to TSB. In response, TSB said that her account had not 
been closed in 2018. It said it had written off an outstanding balance, but the account had 
remained open. It apologised for sending cards to the address it held on file and said that 
her account had now been fully closed. It said there had been no fraudulent applications in 
her name. TSB offered to pay £50 to Ms D to compensate her for its error. 
Ms D did not think all of her complaint points had been considered and she was concerned 
about a data breach. She said that TSBs failure to close the account meant that data would 
be recorded by TSB for longer than it should have been. TSB later agreed to amend Ms Ds 
credit file to show the account was closed in 2018. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. He said that the account should have been 
closed in 2018, but it was not. He thought TSBs actions in closing the account, amending 
Ms Ds credit file and offering to pay £50 in compensation were a fair way to settle the 
complaint. 
Ms D did not agree with our investigators view. She said TSB had admitted to a data 
breach. She reiterated that TSB should have closed the account back in 2018, but it did not. 
She said she thought compensation for a data breach should be significantly more and over 
£1,000. 
As Ms D did not accept our adjudicators view, the matter has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After carefully considering all of the information before me, Im satisfied TSBs offer to 
amend Ms Ds credit file and to pay £50 in compensation is a fair way to settle this 
complaint. Ill explain why below. 
I can see Ms D feels strongly that TSB committed a data breach and that she should be 
compensated accordingly. I need to make clear that it is not the role of this service to 
determine whether there has been a breach of the relevant Data Protection Act or award 
compensation for any such breach. The issue as to whether there has been a breach of data 
protection legislation would be a matter for a court to decide and Ms D has indicated that she 
intends to pursue court action in that regard. 
This service is an informal dispute resolution service and it is my role to determine a fair and 
reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of Ms Ds complaint. With that in mind, I can 
look at whether there was a customer service failing in how TSB managed Ms Ds 
information and any resulting impact on her. 
The parties accept that TSB should have closed Ms Ds account in 2018, but it did not do so. 
As a result of that error, TSB then sent two debit cards to an old address of Ms D, which was 
occupied by a family member. If TSB had closed Ms Ds account in 2018 as it should have 
done, the debit cards would not have been issued. 
Ive thought about the impact of all of this on Ms D. TSB has now taken action to close the 
account. And if everything had gone as it should have done, the account would have shown 
on Ms Ds records as being closed in 2018. TSB has now agreed to amend Ms Ds credit 
file, so the account shows as being closed in 2018. 
I can see how receiving debit cards for an account that Ms D considered closed would have 
caused her some frustration. And I can see how that frustration and worry would have been 
compounded if TSB suggested a friend or family member had opened an account in her 
name. Ms D was also put to some trouble in resolving the matter with TSB 
Ms D said a significant detriment could have been caused to her if the debit cards had been 
sent to an address that wasnt occupied by one of her family members. But I cant award 
compensation for a detriment that could have occurred but did not. 
With that in mind, in recognition of the trouble Ms D was put to in resolving the matter with 
TSB, Im satisfied the £50 TSB offered is fair compensation in all the circumstances of this 
complaint. I understand TSB may have already paid that amount to Ms D by cheque. It has 
already closed the account and I understand it has already amended her credit file. On that 
basis, I dont require TSB to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that the offer of TSB Bank plc to close Ms Ds account, amend her credit file 
and pay £50 in compensation is a fair way to settle this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman