DRN-3472871
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Scottish Widows Limited will still pay an annuity to her ex-husband in 
the event of her death even though they are now divorced. 
What happened
Mrs Ss annuity with Scottish Widows has been in payment since 2006. When she took out 
the annuity she named her husband to receive a spouses pension. Theyve since divorced 
and, when she queried what would happen in the event of her death, Scottish Widows told 
her that her now ex-husband would still receive a pension (£192.60 gross pa payable in 
gross monthly instalments of £16.05) if he survived Mrs S, even though theyre now 
divorced. 
Mrs S complained to Scottish Widows but it didnt uphold the complaint. It said it was unable 
to make any changes to the annuity. Mrs S had named her husband to receive benefits and 
that couldnt be changed. 
Mrs S remained unhappy and asked us to look into what had happened. Our investigator 
didnt unable to uphold the complaint. In summary he said: 
The terms and conditions of the annuity say Scottish Widows wont agree a change 
to who the annuity is paid to. 
Although he understood Mrs Ss frustration, given that when she bought the annuity, 
she didnt know shed end up getting a divorce, once an annuity is set up, it generally 
cant be changed  the terms of the policy confirm that and say Mrs S cant change 
who the annuity is paid to. 
Looking at the annuity application, Mrs Ss then husband was specifically named.  
Scottish Widows are obligated to administer the policy as it was agreed from the 
outset. Even if Mrs S could change the beneficiary, a pension income can only be 
paid to a spouse, civil partner or dependent  so her estate wouldnt be able to 
receive the income. 
This stance isnt specific to Scottish Widows  most annuity providers dont allow 
changes to the spouse or dependent that was chosen when the policy was set up, no 
matter if theres been a change in circumstances.
Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view and made some further comments which the 
investigator considered. But he wasnt persuaded to change his view. He noted Mrs S had 
said it hadnt been explained to her that, if anything happened, she wasnt able to change 
the beneficiary. But Scottish Widows had evidenced that the policy was sold on a non-
advised basis. Which meant Scottish Widows wasnt obligated to give any advice. 
Scottish Widows responsibility was to provide clear information about Mrs Ss options so 
she could make an informed decision. The booklet Mrs S had been give said if you have 
chosen a pension income for your husband, wife, registered civil partner or other dependent 
and they are still alive after you die, well start to pay their pension income when your 
pension income stops. It also explained that, Once set up, you cant normally change the 
basis of your pension income, or cash it in, even if your circumstances change. That was 
common to other providers. It also seemed that Mrs S had consulted an independent 
financial adviser at the time. Even if she hadnt used them to set up the annuity, she couldve 
discussed the options set out by Scottish Widow with the adviser.  
Mrs S asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry that Mrs S is unhappy. I can understand why, given her circumstances have 
changed since 2006 when the annuity was set up, she now wants to make changes to who 
will benefit from her annuity when she dies. But my understanding of the position is as 
Scottish Widows and our investigator have said. As has been explained, an annuity, once 
set up (and after any cooling off period has passed), generally cant be changed. Mrs S 
made certain choices when her annuity was set up. Unfortunately its not possible for her to 
revise what she decided then, notwithstanding that theres been a significant change in her 
circumstances. The position as to a spouses pension would be different if the policy 
included protected rights but my understanding is that it didnt. 
One of the drawbacks of buying a conventional annuity is that theyre generally inflexible. 
Theyre designed to provide a guaranteed income for life. Because the benefits are 
guaranteed theyre generally fixed at the point of purchase and the terms on which payments 
will be made, including any dependents benefits, cant later be amended. Changes can 
sometimes be made in connection with divorce proceedings. But Im not sure if, as part of 
any financial settlement in connection with Mrs Ss divorce, consideration was given to 
pension arrangements and whether any adjustments could be made. 
Mrs S has suggested extra income should be paid to her now and, when she dies, the 
pension would die with her. But, if Mrs Ss ex-husband doesnt survive her, Scottish Widows 
wont have to make any further payments following Mrs Ss death anyway. Alternatively she 
says she should be able to nominate a substitute beneficiary. But the annuity was set up and 
based on Mrs Ss husband being the beneficiary and using the specific underwriting criteria 
applicable. Any replacement beneficiary wont mirror that  for example, if the substitute is 
younger thats likely to increase Scottish Widows potential liability.  
I understand the sale was non advised. By that I mean Scottish Widows didnt give Mrs S 
any advice about the annuity and the terms on which it should be set up. So there was no 
obligation on Scottish Widows to ensure the annuity was suitable for her. Scottish Widows 
was however required to provide accurate information about the annuity. In particular and 
relevant here is that the consumer understands that the basis on which the annuity has been 
set up cant be later revised. Mrs S says it wasnt explained to her that, if anything 
happened, she wouldnt be able to change the beneficiary. But, as the investigator pointed 
out, the brochure did say that, once set up, the terms of the annuity couldnt be altered. I 
think that was sufficient to make Mrs S aware. 
Im sorry, and although I can understand why Mrs S is unhappy, Im unable to say that 
Scottish Widows is obliged to change the terms and conditions on which the annuity was set 
up. My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman