DRN-2688644
The complaint
 Ms S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
 Ms S had several debt facilities with HSBC. 
Type Date Amount Period Repaid
Loan 1 April 2018 £2,000 36 months April 2019 by 
loan 2
Loan 2 April 2019 £2,530 24 months April 2019 by 
loan 3
Loan 3 April 2019 £12,010 44 months Outstanding -
£11,191
Flexiloan 
(revolving)Loan £1500 None - 
revolvingRepaid by 
interest refund
Overdraft £4,950 Repaid by 
interest refund
Loan 2 was given to repay loan 1  and loan 3 was agreed to repay loan 2 and to 
consolidate debts. It was approved online.
Ms S complained that HSBC had lent to her irresponsibly. HSBCs checks couldnt have 
been sufficient. She now couldnt afford to repay loan 3 and  even after the interest refunds. 
She wanted to agree a long-term repayment plan and for her credit file to be amended to 
remove adverse credit information. And that any payment plan shouldnt appear on her 
credit file. She said HSBC should write off some of the balance.
HSBC admitted they couldve done more to support Ms S. And although they didnt accept 
full responsibility, they refunded interest of £7,785.99. This repaid the Flexiloan balance of 
£1,500 debit and overdraft of £4,950. They didnt agree that Ms Ss credit file should be 
changed. And  any repayment plan would likely have to be noted on her credit file also. 
They paid compensation of £200.
Ms S brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think HSBC should write 
off any of the balance as Ms S had had the use of the money  she should pay the debt 
back. He agreed that HSBC should remove adverse information on her credit file  up to this 
point. HSBC should agree a payment plan with Ms S, but if appropriate, this should be noted 
on her credit file.
Ms S asked that her complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether HSBC 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer 
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances.
HSBC admitted that their checks werent enough in Ms Ss case. I can see that her salary 
was said to be approximately £20,000 per annum gross. Her monthly net take home salary 
was £1,400 and her outgoings £1,839. The loan of £12,010 was approved automatically 
online  so HSBC told us nothing more was needed to approve the loan. Ms Ss account 
turnover was more than her salary because of a lot of transfers in and out of it  so this may 
have affected the approval. This was a large personal loan by comparison with her previous 
loans. But - there were no additional checks made by HSBC. I cant see that HSBC followed 
through to see which debts were repaid by the consolidation loan. So, its clear that  even 
though this was approved automatically online, HSBC shouldve stepped in and asked more 
questions to understand Ms Ss circumstances. But they didnt.
Against that however, HSBC have already refunded £7,785 in interest on the loans made  
so thats good. But, Ms S is still left with a debt of £11,191 and she says she cant afford to 
make the repayments of £381.03 per month. There are already arrears. She says HSBC 
wont agree a payment plan and if they do  her credit file will be marked.
To me, its clear the lending by HSBC was irresponsible and shouldve been subjected to 
further checks, so Ms S should be put back in the position she was in before the loan was 
agreed. So  I agree that her credit file should be amended to remove all adverse entries up 
to the date of this decision.
Ive considered whether HSBC should write off some of the loan. But  Ms S had had the 
use of the capital amount lent  whether it was to repay the HSBC debts, or other her debts. 
So  I dont agree that HSBC should write off any of the debt. Ms S should remain 
responsible for it.
It follows that its reasonable that HSBC should now agree a mutually agreeable repayment 
plan for the remaining debt. Ms S says shes in financial difficulty  but Ive not seen any 
details of this, and its for Ms S to put this information to HSBC. And, because I think that Ms S should be responsible for the repayment of her debt, its also only fair that such a payment 
arrangement can be noted on Ms Ss credit file.
So  I am upholding this complaint to the extent that previous entries relating to HSBCs 
prior lending should be removed. And HSBC and Ms S should now agree a payment plan.
But  I do not agree that any part of Ms Ss debt should be forgiven, nor that any repayment 
plan shouldnt be noted on Ms S credit file. I note that Ms S will be disappointed by these 
aspects of my decision, but I think that this is a fair and reasonable outcome for both her and 
HSBC. 
Putting things right
HSBC must remove any adverse entries on Ms Ss credit file up to the date of this 
decision.
HSBC and Ms S should agree a mutually agreeable payment plan. HSBC may note 
this on Ms Ss credit file.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc must:
Remove any adverse entries on Ms Ss credit file up to the date of this decision.
HSBC and Ms S should agree a mutually agreeable payment plan. HSBC may note 
this on Ms Ss credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman