DRN-2756116
The complaint
Mr S says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about three instalment loans Cashfloat provided to Mr S between February 
2019 and June 2020. Mr Ss lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount No of 
instalmentsHighest 
repayment
1 04/02/2019 05/07/2019 £500 4 £208.99
2 06/07/2019 19/08/2019 £300 3 £144.37
3 21/06/2020 25/09/2020 £500 3 £256.34
The loans didnt overlap, so Mr S wasnt making more than one repayment a month for 
them. The gap between the repayment of loan two and taking out loan three is significant. 
So I think loan three can be reasonably considered as the start of a new chain of lending and 
Cashfloat may have reasonably thought that Mr Ss situation had changed. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint in part and thought loan two shouldnt have been 
given. Cashfloat disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
Cashfloat said loan two was for a lesser amount and Mr S had no trouble repaying it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Cashfloat asked Mr S for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr S said his monthly income was at least £2,600. He said his monthly 
outgoings were at most £1,845. I cant see that Cashfloats credit checks found anything 
untoward that should have prompted further checks. 
As Ive said above, loan three can be considered as the start of a new lending relationship 
and so I think Cashfloat should have carried out the affordability checks that were 
appropriate for that. For loans one and three, I think Cashfloats affordability checks were 
proportionate and sufficient. 
For loans one and three, given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ss 
circumstances at the time and his history with Cashfloat, I dont think it wouldve been 
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the information Mr S provided or the information 
Cashfloat shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr S was saying. 
But I dont think Cashfloats checks went far enough for loan two. This is because when he 
reached the final repayment for loan one, Mr S had told Cashfloat that he was having 
financial difficulties. And an arrangement was made to clear loan one. But Mr S asked for 
loan two the very next day. It was for a lesser amount. But I still think Cashfloat should have 
then been prompted to make further checks on Mr Ss financial circumstances before 
lending to him again.  
Mr S had stated in his loan application that he had other credit commitments. But I think 
Cashfloat should have asked for further information about his other credit commitments, both 
long term and short term, to better understand his financial situation.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan two would most likely have 
shown that Mr S was having problems managing his money. Mr S had at least three other 
short-term loans outstanding when he asked for loan two. So I think if Cashfloat had made 
better checks, it would have seen that Mr S was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay loan 
two without having to borrow again. So I think it was wrong to have provided loan two. Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr S from loan two, as Im satisfied it ought 
to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how it would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. 
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real 
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr S in a 
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I think Cashfloat should do the following:
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan two;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loan two from Mr Ss credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ss complaint. I 
require Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) to pay Mr S compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman