DRN-2096969
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was misled about the mileage on a car he took under a hire 
purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (which Ill call BMW). 
What happened
In November 2018 Mr C entered into a 49 month hire purchase arrangement for a used car. 
The agreement and accompanying invoice recorded that the cars mileage was 19,843 and 
that the annual allowance was 8,000 miles. If he exceeded that allowance, Mr C would have 
to pay an extra 5.14p per mile. 
Mr C complained that there were problems with the car, specifically with the brakes and 
electric windows. Those issues have been dealt with in a separate complaint, and I mention 
them only by way of background. But Mr C also said that the mileage recorded on the sales 
invoice and hire purchase agreement were incorrect; he said the correct mileage was 
21,188, a difference of 1,354 miles. 
BMW agreed to amend the contract to record the higher mileage. In that way, any excess 
mileage that might become due would be based on the higher figure.
Mr C didnt think however that this went far enough. He said he had wanted a car with a 
mileage of around 18-19,000 and that, had he known the true mileage, he wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the hire purchase agreement. 
Mr C referred the matter to this service, where our investigator agreed that this was a 
separate issue from Mr Cs previous complaint. He didnt however accept what Mr C said. 
He thought he would have taken out the hire purchase agreement in any event. Mr C asked 
that an ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, however, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, 
and for similar reasons. 
BMW made its offer of settlement on the basis that what Mr C said about the cars mileage 
was correct. Ive approached this complaint on the same assumption, although in my view 
the evidence that the cars mileage was wrong isnt particularly strong. My decision though is 
based on it being 1,354 miles too low on the finance documents. I should say that theres no 
evidence that cars odometer had been tampered with; that is, the mileage showing on the 
dashboard was correct  and, indeed, Mr Cs complaint is made on that basis. 
Mr C sys that BMW misrepresented the mileage and that he should therefore be entitled to 
reject the car. However, in order for that argument to succeed, I would need to be persuaded 
that:
BMW made a statement about the mileage which was incorrect;
Mr C relied on that statement into entering into the agreement; and 
it was reasonable for him to do so.   
As Ive indicated, Ive approached this case on the basis that the first requirement was 
fulfilled. The investigator thought that the second wasnt  that is, Mr C would have gone 
ahead, given the relatively small difference in the mileage. I agree with that assessment. It 
seems to me that, had the exact mileage been as significant as Mr C says it was to his 
decision-making, he would have checked it on the car before taking delivery of it. Even if he 
was unable to do that, he could have checked when he took delivery what the mileage was. 
If he wasnt happy, he could have withdrawn from the agreement within 14 days  as the 
agreement allowed him to do. He didnt seek to do so. 
For the same reason, I dont believe it was reasonable for Mr C to rely on the mileage in the 
finance documents. It was very simple to check what it was, as I believe Mr C would have 
done if it was that important to him.  
BMW has said that the difference in the mileage was so small that it was unlikely to have 
made any difference to the price, but offered Mr C £75 in any event. In my view, that  along 
with the adjustment in case of excess mileage  was a reasonable resolution.   
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 
18 December 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman