DRN-3975523
The complaint
C, a mutual society, has complained that Aviva Insurance limited didnt settle its business 
interruption insurance claim in full.
Mr W, an officer of C, has brought the case on its behalf.
What happened
C runs a club. It held business interruption insurance with Aviva. It made a claim in April 
2020 after the business was affected by Covid-19 lockdown restrictions. 
Aviva initially declined the claim as it didnt think the policy provided cover.
In January 2021 following the Supreme Court judgment in a test case brought by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA test case) Aviva reviewed the claim. It accepted the 
claim and in March 2021 made a settlement of £10,000 which was the sub-limit for loss 
under the policy extension for prevention of access and loss of attraction.
C thought based on the wording of the policy it was entitled to a further £10,000 being the 
policy sub-limit under the section of the policy providing cover for business interruption 
losses caused by a notifiable human disease.
Aviva disagreed. It said Cs losses under both the prevention of access and notifiable human 
disease sections of the policy had the same originating cause and it wasnt entitled to claim 
twice. It also said even if C had been able to make a separate claim under the notifiable 
human disease extension, it would only have been successful if it could have shown that 
thered been an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises that had caused restrictions on the 
use of those premises on the order or advice of a competent authority.
C brought its complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was 
minded to uphold the complaint in part. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Aviva has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when refusing to consider Cs claim under the disease section of the policy.
Notifiable Human Disease and Other Health Risks
There are various extensions to the core business interruption cover. One of these 
covers:
 i) any occurrence of a Notifiable Human Disease or a Notifiable Human Disease 
attributable to food or drink supplied from the Premises .
That causes restrictions on the use of the Premises on the order or advice of a 
competent authority.
It seems to be accepted that Covid-19 falls within the policy definition of a Notifiable 
Human Disease.
Prevention of access and loss of attraction
Cs claim was paid under this extension. The relevant part of the clause covers losses 
caused by:
v) closure or sealing off of the Premises or any right of way by the police or other statutory 
authority which
a)prevents or hinders the use of the Premises or access thereto or, where 
the Premises forms part of a larger complex development or shopping 
centre, prevents or hinders the use of the entire complex development or 
shopping centre or access thereto or;
b)causes a reduction in the number of people using the Premises or, where 
the Premises forms part of a larger complex development or shopping 
centre, causes a reduction in the number of people using the same.
The policy schedule set out the limits of liability for different parts of the policy. It 
stated that the sub-limit of liability for Notifiable Human Disease and Other Health 
Risks was £10,000 and it was also £10,000 for Prevention of Access and Loss of 
Attraction.
Cs policy has a section regarding sub-limits which says:
Sub-limits form part of the Limit of Liability and unless otherwise stated do not 
apply in addition to it.
All Limits of Liability apply to any one Occurrence.
Limits are inclusive of the Excess unless otherwise stated.
If more than one Sub-limit applies to the same loss, the insurers liability will be 
limited to the lower Sub-limit.
The property damage and business interruption section of the policy says that where a word 
is set out in bold it has a specific definition. 
The policy says Occurrence means:
any one loss or series of losses arising out of and directly resulting from one source 
or original cause.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that there is a sub-limit of £10,000 for claims made 
under the notifiable human disease and the prevention of access extensions to the 
policy. What is in dispute is whether Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably in 
deciding that Cs claims under these two extensions resulted from the same 
underlying cause. How we should interpret insurance policies is set out in the Supreme Courts judgment in 
response to the FCA test case. Paragraph 47 of that judgment says an insurance policy, 
like any other contract, must be interpreted objectively by asking what a reasonable person, 
with all the background knowledge which would reasonably have been available to the 
parties when they entered into the contract, would have understood the language of the 
contract to mean. Evidence about what the parties subjectively intended or understood the 
contract to mean is not relevant to the courts task. 
At paragraph 77 the Supreme Court also commented that the overriding question is how 
the words of the contract would be understood by a reasonable person. In the case of an 
insurance policy of the present kind, sold principally to SMEs, the person to whom the 
document should be taken to be addressed is not a pedantic lawyer who will subject the 
entire policy wording to a minute textual analysis (cf Jumbo King Ltd v Faithful Properties 
Ltd (1999) 2 HKCFAR 279, para 59). It is an ordinary policyholder who, on entering into the 
contract, is taken to have read through  the policy conscientiously in order to understand 
what cover they were getting. 
As set out in the policy I think the limits apply to any one occurrence. The word 
Occurrence is set out in bold in the schedule and so I think the policy definition 
applies. Ive therefore considered whether loss caused by an occurrence of a 
notifiable human disease resulted from the same source or original cause as the one 
which caused the closure of the premises by a statutory authority. I think it did and Ill 
explain why.
Mr W says that there were cases of Covid-19 at the club. If I understand him 
correctly, he believes that these cases were separate from the cases of Covid-19 
that led to the first lockdown. However, the definition of Occurrence in Cs policy 
includes losses arising out of and directly resulting from one source or original 
cause. This is very broad wording. Even though there might have been different 
instances of the disease, I consider that the losses arose out of and directly resulted 
from one source or original cause  i.e. all the losses arose from Covid-19.
Mr W has referred me to the judgment in the test case where the Supreme Court 
found at paragraph 104:
As, discussed, each individual case of disease is in our view properly regarded as 
an occurrence. Accordingly, where there are multiple cases of disease, each is an 
occurrence
However, this was in the context of deciding what the term occurrence meant in 
policies where such a term wasnt defined and also with regard to the issue of 
whether a particular occurrence of Covid-19 was within or outside a specified 
geographical area e.g. within 25 miles of the insured premises. Cs policy has a 
definition of Occurrence and so I need to take into account that definition. Having 
done so I dont think it entitles C to bring a separate claim under the notifiable human 
disease extension in addition to the prevention of access claim as in each case the 
loss resulted from the same cause so there was only one Occurrence as defined in 
the policy for which the policy sub-limit was £10,000.
C is also unhappy  about  the time it took for Aviva  to settle  its claim  and the way 
it handled  it. I do think  Aviva  took longer  than it should  have  done  to pay Cs 
claim.  Whilst  Ive noted Avivas point that it felt it needed to wait until the outcome of 
the test case, Im not persuaded by it. This delay in dealing with business interruption 
insurance claims was permitted under the guidance issued by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to insurers at the time but not required by law. Additionally, the guidance did not suggest that, for customers whose claims were found to have been 
incorrectly declined, interest should not be awarded. I recognise that there was 
uncertainty about the interpretation of the wording in certain policies. However, I 
think it was always open for Aviva to have accepted the claim sooner and ultimately 
the Supreme Court found that Avivas initial decision not to provide cover was 
incorrect. 
Ive also taken account of the fact that Aviva has had the benefit of the money it should have 
paid C. The rules governing this service allow me to make, amongst other things, a money 
and interest award for what I consider to be fair compensation if a complaint is determined in 
favour of the complainant. In this case, my decision is based on what I think is fair 
compensation to put C back in the position it would have been in if Aviva had accepted the 
claim originally. I acknowledge that my decision might be different from one which a court 
might make. But in this case I think it is fair and reasonable to do so.
In relation to an ongoing claim of this nature, it is reasonable that an insurer should wait for 
losses to accrue before making settlement. However, it is not necessarily reasonable for an 
insurer to wait for the end of an indemnity period before making any settlement. Generally 
speaking, I would expect regular monthly payments to be made. 
It is also reasonable that an insurer will need some time to assess a claim and make a 
settlement. I consider a reasonable time to do this for a claim of this nature would be around 
two months from when C first made its claim in April 2020 in order to wait for losses to 
accrue and to give Aviva a reasonable amount of time to assess the claim. I dont consider 
the bringing of the test case alters this in the circumstances of this complaint.
I currently think it is fair and reasonable that Aviva should add interest to the first months 
loss from two months after the claim was made, the second months loss from three months 
after the claim was made and so on until the policy sub-limit of £10,000 is reached in each 
case until the date of settlement. Interest is simple interest at the rate of 8% a year.
Aviva incorrect rejection of Cs claim initially caused it some inconvenience to C. Mr W had 
to constantly chase Aviva on Cs behalf over a period of several months. I am minded to 
award £250 for the inconvenience Aviva caused C in this respect.
In summary in reply Aviva made the following points:
It would like me to note that I agreed with it on the main issue complained about by 
C.
Aviva didnt think the award of interest was fair or justified for three reasons:
(a) It said insurance claims do not attract interest as a matter of law as a claim for 
payment under a policy is a claim for damages rather than a debt claim.
(b) Aviva acted at all times in accordance with the FCAs guidance on the test case. 
After the judgment of the Supreme Court had been handed down in the test 
case, it had taken steps to settle the claim as efficiently and expeditiously as 
possible.
(c) It didnt think C was unhappy with the time period for settlement of the initial 
claim as opposed to delays from March 2021.
Even if an award of interest were justified, it thought the rate of 8% was punitive.
It accepted that it had caused some inconvenience to C by declining the claim for a 
further payment under the notifiable disease extension on incorrect grounds and 
thought compensation of £250 was fair in the circumstances. It didnt think it should 
be required to compensate C for its initial handling of the claim.Mr W said he was disappointed with my decision but had no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons set out in my provisional findings I agree that Aviva treated C fairly in saying 
that C wasnt entitled under its policy to bring a separate claim under the notifiable human 
disease extension in addition to the prevention of access claim.
The rules governing this service allow me to make, amongst other things, a money award for 
what I consider to be fair compensation if a complaint is determined in favour of the 
complainant. In this case, my decision is based on what I think is fair compensation to put C 
back in the position it would have been in if Aviva hadnt turned down its claim at first. As 
mentioned above, my decision might be different from one which a court might make. But in 
this case I think it is fair and reasonable to account of the fact that Aviva has had the benefit 
of the money it should have paid C and to compensate C for the financial loss of being 
without that money. 
Ive noted Avivas point that it acted in accordance with the guidance issued by the Financial 
Conduct Authority to insurers at the time. But, as explained in my provisional findings, the 
guidance did not suggest that, for customers whose claims were found to have been 
incorrectly declined, interest should not be awarded. 
With regard to Avivas comment that C hasnt complained about the time period for 
settlement of the initial claim, I should explain that this service has an inquisitorial remit, 
which allows me to consider the subject matter of a complaint as a whole. I am not restricted 
to just the specific points raised by a complainant, or those addressed by a business in reply 
to a complaint. So I have looked at how Aviva handled Cs claim from when it was first 
made.
Its not the role of this service to penalise financial businesses. Our usual approach is to 
apply an interest rate of 8% simple per annum broadly to reflect the opportunity cost of being 
without the funds. Ive considered Avivas arguments, but I think the relevant issue here is 
the opportunity cost of the lost funds to C. In this case I dont consider that awarding interest 
at 8% would result in C being overcompensated. Without any compelling reason to depart 
from our usual approach, I consider it fair and reasonable that Aviva should pay C interest at 
the rate of 8% simple a year from and to the dates specified in my provisional findings.
As I understand it, Aviva doesnt object to paying compensation of £250 but it does object to 
this being categorised as compensation in part for its initial handling of Cs claim. Our 
service doesnt award compensation for each individual failing. Instead, we take a holistic 
view of everything thats happened and make an award based on the overall impact. In this 
case, having reviewed the circumstances of the claim, I think that overall the sum of £250 is 
fair and reasonable to compensate C for the inconvenience it was caused. 
Putting things right
To put things right I think Aviva should:
add interest to Cs first months loss from two months after the claim was made, the 
second months loss from three months after the claim was made and so on until the 
policy sub-limit of £10,000 is reached in each case until the date of settlement. Interest is simple interest at the rate of 8% a year.
pay compensation of £250 to C for the inconvenience caused to it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman