DRN-3622366
The complaint
Mr S complains that St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc mis-sold a mortgage to him. 
He says it manipulated him into taking out a fixed rate product with a shorter term than hed 
wanted. He asks for compensation.
What happened
Mr S took mortgage advice from St. James Place in 2021. He wanted to move home and St. 
James Place recommended a mortgage and applied to the lender on his behalf.
Mr S made a complaint to St. James Place in 2022. He said hes disabled and suffers from 
learning disabilities and severe anxiety. Mr S says he wanted a fixed rate for a long term (as 
much as 15 years) so he didnt have to worry about rates increasing. He says the mortgage 
adviser played on his anxiety and persuaded him to take out a two-year product by saying it 
would cost him more in the long run if he wanted to leave the mortgage early. 
Our investigator said the information sent to Mr S by St. James Place (such as the 
recommendation and mortgage illustration) was clear that it recommended a two-year fixed 
rate. There was nothing to suggest St. James Place didnt meet its duty to recommend a 
mortgage that was suitable for Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree. He said St. James Place took advantage of his disability and manipulated 
him to take out the deal that was in its own interest rather than his. He said his disability 
affects his ability to make decisions and understand the contract he signed. He said he didnt 
realise there was anything wrong until he spoke to his lender.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
St. James Place recommended the mortgage to Mr S. It needed to collect sufficient 
information about Mr Ss circumstances and needs to ensure its recommendation was 
suitable.
St. James Place carried out a financial review with Mr S. It recorded that Mr S was employed 
full time, in good health and with no medical conditions. It said Mr S had to pay an ERC to 
his existing lender, of about £500. It said he wanted to fix his mortgage costs for a certain 
period.  
St. James Place sent a suitability letter to Mr S. This said Mr S wanted a fixed interest rate to 
protect from interest rate fluctuations and to be sure of his commitments. It set out a 
summary of the recommended mortgage, including that the rate was fixed until May 2023. It 
said You wanted to fix your mortgage payments for this period of time because you feel that 
2 years is the right length of time to have certainty with your mortgage payments and to be 
tied  to a particular lender. It said it recommended the mortgage product which most suited 
Mr Ss requirements at the lowest cost based on his circumstances and mortgage options. 
The suitability letter said no material health issues were identified which could impact on the 
advice given. 
A mortgage offer was issued in February 2021. This was for a mortgage with a fixed interest 
rate until May 2023. Mr Ss mortgage completed in April 2021.
Mr S says the phone calls he had with the mortgage adviser are essential evidence of how 
he was manipulated. Unfortunately the calls werent recorded. Both parties have provided 
their recollections of the discussions. 
When Mr S made a complaint he said he moved because his neighbours were a nightmare. 
He said the mortgage adviser was adamant he should take out a two-year product in case 
this happened again.
The mortgage adviser said Mr S hadnt asked about 10-year or 15-year products. He said 
their discussions were about five-year or two-year products and Mr S chose a two-year 
product because he didnt want to have to pay early repayment charges again. The 
mortgage adviser said Mr S hadnt raised concerns about being vulnerable, needing extra 
care or about his physical or mental health. He said he didnt meet Mr S and only spoke to 
him by phone.
It's unfortunate that there arent recordings of the calls between Mr S and the mortgage 
adviser as this would provide a clear record of their discussions. I should explain that where 
the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
I think I have enough information and evidence to reach a fair decision. I dont intend to 
uphold this complaint and Ive explained why below.
Theres nothing in the documents from 2021 to suggest that Mr S told St. James Place at 
that time he had a disability, learning difficulties or anxiety or that it ought to have known 
this. I dont think it could reasonably have known that Mr S  who was employed full time 
and in the process of selling a property and buying another  was unable to make 
decisions or understand the contract he agreed to.
Theres nothing in the documents from 2021 to evidence Mr S telling St. James Place 
that he wanted a longer-term fixed rate. 
The documents sent to Mr S about the recommendation and the mortgage he took out 
are clear that the interest rate is fixed until May 2023. 
Mr S said in his complaint he was manipulated to take out a two-year fixed rate, which 
wasnt what he wanted. He also said he wasnt aware there was anything wrong until he 
spoke to his lender in 2022. I dont think these two statements are consistent.
Mr S said he wanted a longer-term fixed rate as he was anxious about rates increasing. 
He says the mortgage adviser persuaded him to take out a two-year fixed rate by saying 
a longer fixed rate could cost him more if he needed to move. I can see that Mr S had to 
make a difficult decision  he needed to balance his concerns about potential rate rises 
against the risk of paying an early repayment charge during the product term. But I think 
it was fair for the mortgage adviser to ensure Mr S was aware of the potential cost of 
repaying the mortgage early.
Without listening to the calls between Mr S and the mortgage adviser (which isnt possible) I cant be sure if the mortgage adviser pressured or manipulated Mr S to agree 
to a two-year fixed rate. But if this happened, as Mr S says, theres no evidence he 
raised any concerns about this at the time. 
The discussions between Mr S and the mortgage adviser took place in early 2021. The 
mortgage offer was issued in late February 2021. Mr Ss purchase completed in late April 
2021, about two months later. If Mr S was unsure about the advice he was given by St. 
James Place, the terms of the mortgage and whether a two-year fixed rate was right for 
him, he could have raised concerns about this at that time. If he wasnt sure about the 
mortgage terms and conditions he could have asked for help  for instance from the 
conveyancing solicitor or even another mortgage broker.
Interest rates have increased since Mr S took out his mortgage. Im sorry hes worried about 
what will happen when his fixed rate expires in May 2023. But I dont think, based on the 
available evidence, that St. James Place made an error or treated him unfairly. It follows that 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require it to pay compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman