DRN-3565385
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) failed to register that 
Mr C made a claims for total and permanent disability (TPD) benefit in 2012. They are also 
unhappy because they believe their policy documentation is misleading.  
What happened
In 2005 Mr and Mrs C took out a life and critical illness mortgage cover policy with Aviva 
through an independent financial adviser (IFA). The policy provided £80,000 of decreasing 
cover over a 13-year term and included TPD benefit. This benefit was on an activities of 
daily living basis for Mr C and an any occupation basis for Mrs C.
In 2007 they began a second policy, with the application being made through the same IFA. 
This policy provided £80,000 of decreasing life and critical illness cover over an 11-year 
term. Again, it also included TPD benefit, however at this time both Mr and Mrs C had the 
benefit included on an activities of daily living basis. Both policies ended in 2018. 
In July 2020, Mr C wrote to Aviva to pursue a subject access request. He also said the IFA 
had told him that a critical illness claim had previously been declined. 
In May 2021, Mr C contacted Aviva to ask about the claim he had made under each policy. 
He said that he had called Aviva in November 2012 regarding claims because he had sadly 
suffered a life-changing injury which necessitated medical retirement. Though Aviva had 
contacted Mr and Mrs C further in 2012, Mr C said theyd never heard anything since then.  
Aviva told Mr C that he hadnt gone through a claim process in 2012, rather he had merely 
sought information about a possible claim, and was sent information at the time. 
So, Mr and Mrs C complained. Their first complaint point was around their subject access 
request. They then made a number of further complaint points, noting:
they hadnt been informed that their 2005 policy had different types of TPD cover;
a joint policy should have parallel protection, not variables between the two offerings;
they missed their chance to seek TPD cover elsewhere;
a reasonable interpretation of the wording is that any one of three TPD definitions 
may apply;
what Aviva did in 2012 by merely sending a letter was insufficient;
Aviva had disregarded regulatory principles. 
Aviva issued three final response letters to the complaint points. The first letter of 29 April 
2021 addressed delays in documentation Mr C had asked for, and offered an apology. The 
second related to how the policies were set up and offered a repeated explanation that Aviva 
did not sell the policies, so any complaint about that needed to be put to the IFA (or the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme where the IFA had ceased to trade).    
Finally, it issued a third response dated 9 July 2021. This letter confirmed that:
it appeared there had been a misunderstanding of what was expected in 2012  but it 
did not hear back from Mr C either;
though the policy schedules from 2005 and 2007 were slightly different, this didnt 
render the documents themselves unclear  periodic changes to wording and 
formatting were to be expected in long term insurance contracts.  
it could offer Mr and Mrs C insurance jointly, but not on the same terms and their 
policy schedules had made that clear;
it did not accept that the policy terms and conditions in relation to TPD cover was 
misleading, unclear or ambiguous;
it did not sell the policy  the IFA did;
it expected the IFA to provide further guidance as to the cover sought and the terms 
offered on each policy;
it was not responsible for how the policies were put to Mr and Mrs C at the time of the 
sale. 
Mr and Mrs C said they disagreed, so they brought their complaint to this service on 24 
January 2022.  
Before it could go any further, the complaint was reviewed by an investigator to determine if 
it had been pursued within the time limits set out under the rules applying to this service. 
A decision was issued by one of my ombudsmen colleagues in April 2022 and he concluded 
it had been brought here outside of the six month time limit set out by Aviva in its letter of 9 
July 2021. Though he understood why Mr and Mrs C had continued to correspond with Aviva 
after July 2021, he felt its correspondence had made it abundantly clear that they had six 
months to bring the matter to this service, or it would otherwise be deemed as made too late. 
They therefore needed to lodge their complaint before 9 January 2022 and did not do so.  
Aviva then clarified that while the complaint pursued to this service had been rightly time-
barred, it had also issued two further responses to linked complaint points, dated 27 July 
2021 and 4 August 2021. These two complaints would have been referred to this service in 
time. In any event, it said there had been confusion over consent to consider the complaint 
with its case handlers, and it should have given. The complaint was therefore reopened.  
Our investigator then issued a view on the complaint. He said he felt Aviva had acted fairly in 
November 2012, and the notes from that time bear out that Mr C had said he would take the 
definition to his doctor. He could see no evidence of any agreement that Aviva would do 
anything further in 2012. 
Further, he looked carefully at both sets of policy wording but did not feel they were 
misleading or ambiguous. He therefore didnt think Aviva should do anything further.  
Mr C said he and Mrs C did not accept the investigators findings, and they wanted him to 
pass the matter to an ombudsman. They made a number of detailed further submissions. I 
have read these in their entirety, though I wont be setting them out verbatim here. In 
summary, they said:
the investigator has assumed the ambiguity should have been apparent to them;
however, if the restrictions had been pointed out to them, they could have sought 
insurance elsewhere;
if Mr and Mrs C could not be offered the same level of TPD cover, this should have 
been told to them from the outset;
there was no logic in offering them different cover;
Aviva been unable to provide any documentary evidence to show why it did this;only a highly trained eye would recognise the policies had subtle differences;
Mr C accepted in 2012 that he was simply sent a booklet and told to speak with his 
doctor;
but this didnt account for his vulnerable state;
he expected a claim form to be sent to them after the call but this didnt happen;
Aviva took longer than thirty working days to action Mr Cs subject access request;
each of the policies arranged for them were not identical and had two completely 
different wordings;
in particular, the definition of integrated critical illness was different in each policy;
Mr C contends he is entitled to read contractual ambiguity in his favour and so the 
own occupation TPD definition ought to apply to him;
the extent of the cover and more significantly the limitations in the cover, were not
clearly communicated to them at the outset of each policy, so that they could have 
made an informed decision;
they are alarmed at how the jurisdiction matter was handled by Aviva and have 
accordingly made a further subject access request.  
Our investigator was not persuaded to change his view, and so the complaint was referred 
for a decision.  
Mr C made a number of further written comments. He supplied twelve statement points that 
he had previously made when referring the complaint to this service. Again, I have read 
everything submitted, though I shant be setting it out in full or repeating submissions already 
made above. He said additionally that:
Avivas documentation says process notes for critical illness claim;
it was not his suggestion to seek evidence from a GP, but Avivas;
Aviva didnt clarify he had two policies, and by the time he was able to review the 
policy the adviser had passed away;
he genuinely believed he had own occupation cover, and the only difference in the 
TPD definitions were roman numerals;
he remains of the view that this is very confusing to a layperson;
at every stage of their interactions, Aviva has sought to frustrate him and make 
wrongful allegations. 
In his submissions, Mr C also reiterated thirty questions he had previously posed in relation 
to both policies, and two questions relating to the 2007 policy which, in his view, should be 
borne in mind by the deciding ombudsman. These questions included considerations of 
whether Aviva has complied with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles and the 
requirements of the FCAs Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
These points reiterated the concerns Mr and Mrs C had about the differences in their TPD 
cover, its suitability and whether Aviva showed integrity, due care, skill, diligence, 
reasonable communications and acted in their interests under FCA rules. Mr C also 
questioned whether specific ICOBS Principles (4 -7) were met by Aviva.   
Aviva confirmed it did not have any further comments to make. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I thank the parties for their patience whilst this matter awaited an ombudsmans decision. I 
can see Mr C has gone to a considerable effort in corresponding with both Aviva and our 
service. He has supplied comprehensive written accounts of his view on his and Mrs Cs 
complaint at what I realise has been a difficult time, and I thank him for doing so.   
I know that this process has been frustrating for Mr C and I do appreciate the vulnerabilities 
he has highlighted. I do not intend to make matters worse for him, but I also wont be 
addressing every individual submission Mr C (on behalf of himself and Mrs C) has made. 
Nor will I be providing my findings on the basis that he requires by going through his 
perceived consideration points under the regulatory framework. Im not required to comment 
on each point or make the specific determinations that have been requested. However, I can 
assure Mr C that I have reviewed all of the evidence before me. 
The consideration points Mr C has set out, while helpful, are not a strict measure that I must 
follow. This service is not a regulator; that duty falls to the FCA. As Ive said above it is for 
me to decide what I consider fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. To do so, I will 
take account of relevant laws, regulations and best industry practice alongside the evidence. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service provides informal dispute resolution. ~
My remit is to make findings on what I believe to be fair and reasonable to both parties in the 
circumstances, and this does not follow a prescribed format. Instead, I will set out my 
reasons for my findings on what I consider are the central issues in this complaint, based on 
the evidence before me.
In his submissions to Aviva, this service, and our investigator, many of the concerns Mr C 
raises now are not something for which Aviva is liable because they relate to the sale of the 
policy. An example of this where Mr C has asked why provisions and restrictions were not 
made clear to him so he and Mrs C could have made an informed choice about starting the 
policy. As the sale took place with an intermediary, that duty fell to the IFA.  
Aviva offered, administered and maintained the contract of insurance in return for premiums 
paid by Mr and Mrs C during the life of each policy. I do expect it to provide policy 
documentation which is clear and not misleading, and Ill explain further below why I believe 
it did so. But it was not the business that recommended the two policies and so cannot 
account for actions taken by the IFA in 2005 and 2007.  
Similarly, concerns about the subject access are not generally something this service can 
make findings about, that role falls to the Information Commissioners Office. If Mr and Mrs C 
have concerns about Avivas actions in relation to accessing data held about them during 
their subject access requests, they can contact the ICO about that.  
Turning to the events of 2012, I can see two calls took place with Mr C on 5 and 7 November 
2012. In the first of these he explained how he had sadly become unwell with a rare 
condition, meaning he could no longer work in his role providing urgent medical care. It can 
be seen that at that time, Mr C thought he held own occupation TPD, meaning he would be 
able to pursue a critical illness claim in the event he was no longer able to perform the 
material and substantial duties of his chosen profession again.  
But, in the call of 7 November 2012, it was made clear to him that this was not the case. His 
policy schedule included activities of daily living TPD cover, not own occupation. For that 
reason in the letter of the same date, Mr C was sent those activities to review, and told to 
seek medical assistance if he felt his circumstances met that definition. Mr C had disclosed 
that he had suffered from a type of bone disorder which had worsened since 2007.
I dont see anything wrong with the approach Aviva took in concluding by telephone that Mr C may not have a claim, but if he felt he did, he would require supporting medical evidence. 
In circumstances where a claim form had been lodged, an insurer will write to treating 
medical professionals for a report. 
However, in Mr Cs case, the call notes suggest that having reviewed the activities he would 
not meet the threshold of three out of the six activities listed in the wording (transferring, 
continence, dressing, mobility, feeding and washing). Mr C was unable to drive and noted as 
in pain and since his condition was significant it was suggested he liaise with his treating 
doctor. I dont believe Aviva has been unfair or unreasonable in not issuing a claim form and 
putting Mr C to unnecessary actions when there wasnt a suggestion a claim could be met. 
And, the definition for TPD is a high threshold to meet. This is true of TPD definitions 
generally  it is not specific to Aviva, but instead, set out as suggested wording by the 
Association of British Insurers (ABI) in model wordings for such policies, or in earlier 
industry guidance, with suggested types of TPD levels. To successfully make a TPD claim, 
there needs to be evidence of permanency and totality. And then in Mr Cs case, this is 
tested against a policyholder being unable to perform three or more activities of daily living.
If Mr C recalls this conversation differently and had expected a claim form to be received, I 
would reasonably expect either he or Mrs C to have asked Aviva about that in the years 
before the policies ended. I believe it most likely that the form was neither promised nor sent. 
I do not see any reason why Aviva would fail to issue it but send the other letter in its place.  
Mr C also says he is concerned how he and Mrs C were offered TPD cover on different 
bases in 2005. He says there is no logic as to why Aviva could do this. He also contends that 
Aviva would be compelled to provide its underwriting guide to a court. However, I disagree. 
An insurer is free to decide what terms if offers to a policyholder for certain listed illnesses as 
that is based on a measure of insurance risk, taking into account the profession of the 
applicant, their particular circumstances and their medical history. Mr and Mrs C do not have 
identical circumstances  they are separate people with different medical histories, even if 
they held similar job roles. Aviva was perfectly reasonable in offering different tiers of TPD 
cover on the first policy upon underwriting.  
In terms of understanding what TPD meant, it did not sell the policy  and so that was a 
matter for Mr and Mrs Cs adviser to explain to them if they had questions at the time.  
And, though Mr C has contended that joint cover ought to mean parallel levels of protection, 
that isnt the case. Joint cover is set up to protect a joint liability, meaning if either Mr or Mrs 
C passed away or suffered from a condition listed on their policy, then they could pursue a 
claim for the same sum assured for the joint mortgage debt. 
Put another way, if a married couple sought cover but one of them had sadly suffered from a 
serious illness in the past, an insurer may offer critical illness cover to the other partner but 
place an exclusion on the partner with the medical history. That is because insurers ask 
questions about pre-existing illnesses and lifestyles to determine what cover it can offer and 
how much that will cost for each applicant. Those costs will then be combined for one joint 
policy to provide insurance for the same joint liability. 
This service isnt a court. We are set up to provide informal dispute resolution and our rules 
permit us to consider or exclude evidence that may or not be permissible in the court 
system. Insurers may supply us restricted material where it relates to claims or underwriting 
if appropriate, but it is for a business to decide what it deems confidential information. In any 
event, I have not seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that Aviva unreasonably 
offered its TPD terms to Mr and Mrs C in the 2005 policy or the 2007 policy. And, Mr C was never offered own occupation TPD. I know that he says the policy wording 
is misleading  but I dont accord with his view on that. As Ive said above, the ABI sets out 
model wordings for insurers to adopt when offering critical illness cover of this nature. 
At the time the first policy was taken out, the applicable Statement of Best Practice for 
Critical Illness Cover issued by the ABI in August 2004, said:
Total Permanent Disability
6.1 There are a number of definitions used for Total Permanent Disability. For 
example, total disability may be measured by assessing the persons ability to 
perform certain of the following:
6.1.1 The insured persons Own Occupation.
6.1.2 Suited Occupations.
6.1.3 Any Occupation.
6.1.4 A number of specified activities.; and
Guidelines 
6.4 Insurers are free to use any one or more definitions of disability they wish, 
including but not limited to those shown in 6.1 above. 
6.5 Insurers should make it clear in their product information which procedure is 
adopted in relation to change of occupation together with the potential 
consequences.
With the ABI guidance in mind, I have looked carefully at the three-page Mortgage Life 
Insurance Plan Schedule issued to Mr and Mrs C in March 2005. This document said:
Life Assured 1:
[Mr C]
Male Non-smoker
Born [DATE] Proof Required
Integrated critical illness:
Included: Activities of Daily Living definition of Total Permanent Disablement in 
condition 4 (e)(iii) applies.
Life Assured 2:
[Mrs C]
Female Non-smoker
Born [DATE] Proof Required
Integrated critical illness:
Included: Any occupation definition of Total Permanent Disablement in condition 4 
(e)(ii) applies.
The policy wording then goes on to explain that condition 4e(ii) is any occupation cover and 
4e(iii) is activities of daily living. The policy wording is expressly clear that cover includes 
three types of TPD that could amount to a claimable event, noting at 4e, how Total 
Permanent Disablement can be defined in one of the following ways(i) (ii) and (iii). Each 
of those points (i), (ii) and (iii) then tell the policyholder what the types of disablement 
thresholds are, in order of normal occupation, any occupation and activities of daily living.  I disagree that the use of numbering or roman numerals is unfair or misleading here. The 
policy is set out in an order of conditions, with sub-paragraphs broken up for further detail. 
Policies of this nature include many claimable events and will have to run onto many pages 
to account for all of the various terms and conditions. This is unavoidable, as an insurer will 
need to set out from the outset each and every condition for which it will insure someone. 
Mr C cannot have known at the time of taking out the policy with Mrs C that he would come 
to rely on the TPD cover. It is incredibly unfortunate that he has become unwell in the 
intervening years, but I do not agree Aviva has been misleading or ambiguous in the extent 
of TPD cover for both Mr and Mrs C, or their different levels of cover in the policy schedule. 
If Mr C feels that his medical circumstances during the life of either policy were such that a 
valid TPD claim could have been pursued, he is free to liaise with Aviva regarding a 
retrospective claim and request a claim form on that basis. However, the medical evidence 
would need to relate to the period before the policies ended in 2018.  
My final decision
Though I realise this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs C I do not uphold this complaint. 
Aviva has not acted unfairly in relation to the 2012 query or issued misleading documents.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman