DRN-3438399
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain because Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A.(Mapfre) hasnt paid a cancellation claim under their travel insurance 
policy. 
All references to Mapfre include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Y held an annual travel insurance policy, provided by Mapfre. The policy was
purchased through a price comparison website in March 2020 and had a start date of 31
July 2020.
Mr and Mrs Y were due to travel abroad on 30 July 2020. However, on 25 July 2020, the
UKs Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) announced that it was
advising against all but essential travel to Mr and Mrs Ys intended destination from midnight
due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. This meant Mr and Mrs Ys intended
destination was no longer on the FCDOs list of exempted countries, meaning Mr and Mrs Y
would be required to quarantine on their return to the UK.
Mr and Mrs Y cancelled their trip and made a claim under their policy with Mapfre. Mapfre
said the claim wasnt covered, as the cancellation section of Mr and Mrs Ys policy hadnt
become operative until 31 July 2020  and they knew theyd need to cancel their trip before
that date.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs Y complained to Mapfre before bringing the matter to the attention of
our service. Mr and Mrs Y say they spoke to Mapfre on two occasions in July 2020 before
cancelling their trip and were told theyd be covered for claims relating to Covid-19. Mr and
Mrs Y say, if theyd been given correct information by Mapfre, they wouldnt have made the
decision to cancel and would instead have gone ahead with their travel plans, as their flights
and accommodation were still available for them to use.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened and said he didnt think Mr and Mrs
Ys claim was covered under the terms and conditions of their policy with Mapfre. However,
our investigator thought it was likely that Mapfre couldve given better advice to Mr and Mrs
Y during its second telephone call with them. So, he recommended that Mapfre should pay
Mr and Mrs Y £150 compensation for the impact this had on them.
Neither Mapfre nor Mr and Mrs Y accepted our investigators opinion, so the complaint was 
referred to me. I made my provisional decision about this complaint earlier this month. In it, I 
said:
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and
Mrs Ys complaint.
As with most annual travel insurance policies, the cancellation benefits available under Mr
and Mrs Ys policy didnt come into effect until the date chosen at the point of sale as the
policy start date. The policy start date was chosen as 31 July 2020. So, Mr and Mrs Y had
no cover for cancelling their trip for reasons arising before this date.
The reason Mr and Mrs Y cancelled their trip was because FCDO advice relating to their
intended destination changed. This change in advice was announced on 25 July 2020, which
was before the policy start date. This means Mr and Mrs Ys cancellation claim isnt covered
under the terms and conditions of their policy with Mapfre.
I understand our investigator thought it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances for
Mapfre to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs Y. Although Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs
Y, I dont agree.
I havent been able to listen to the calls which Mr and Mrs Y say they had with Mapfre. Mr
and Mrs Y say they contacted Mapfre twice via a telephone number set out in their policy
documentation. Through no fault of their own, Mr and Mrs Y are unable to obtain telephone
records to confirm this.
Mapfre generally records its telephone calls and told us it has searched for calls from two
telephone numbers which it holds on file for Mr and Mrs Y between the period May to August
2020 but can find no record of any calls. Mapfre says, even if there was an error with the call
recordings, a record of the calls taking place would still show up on its systems. Mapfre also
says there are no entries of notes of any telephone conversations with Mr and Mrs Y
recorded against their policy details. Its not within my remit to punish Mapfre for its inability
to provide details which it says it cant find, and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to
draw any inferences against Mapfre in favour of Mr and Mrs Y as a result of its failure to
locate evidence which Mr and Mrs Y believe it should have.
However, I dont doubt what Mr and Mrs Y have told us. Theyve been consistent in their
explanations that they contacted Mapfre twice. So, I accept its more likely than not that two
telephone conversations did take place. But, as I cant know for certain what was said during
these telephone conversations, I need to base my decision on the balance of probabilities
(i.e. what I think is most likely to have happened in the circumstances).
I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to give definitive advice about whether a claim will be 
accepted when its contacted with an initial query. All claims are subject to the detailed terms
and conditions set out in the policy documentation, and an insurer is entitled to ask for
reasonable evidence and carry out reasonable investigations into a claim before confirming
cover. In my experience of dealing with complaints of this type, most advice given by a travel
insurer in response to an initial query of the kind Mr and Mrs Y say they made will be generic
and a policyholder will usually be advised to submit a claim form, with supporting
documentation, for consideration before a claim is accepted. So, while certain claims relating
to Covid-19 may have been covered under Mr and Mrs Ys policy  this didnt necessarily
mean that Mr and Mrs Ys claim would be.
I understand Mr and Mrs Y say, were it not for the advice they were given by Mapfre, they
wouldnt have cancelled their trip. And, I understand Mr and Mrs Ys flights and
accommodation were still available for them to use. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Y have lost a
considerable amount of money and I empathise with the situation theyve found themselves
in. But, in making an independent and impartial decision, I must be fair not only to Mr and
Mrs Y, but also to Mapfre.
Based on the information Ive been provided with, I dont think I can fairly say its likely that
Mapfre gave Mr and Mrs Y incorrect advice on the telephone, as a result of which Mr andMrs Y acted to their detriment.
I appreciate my provisional decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mr Y, but I
dont currently intend to direct Mapfre to do anything further.
 
Mapfre didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs Y replied, making a number of 
points which Ive addressed below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Ys frustration, and Im genuinely sorry about the situation they 
found themselves in, but I cant fairly find in their favour based on the circumstances of this 
complaint. 
It was up to Mr and Mrs Y to make sure they had a policy in place which met their needs.  
The policy they bought provided no cancellation cover at all for this holiday, because the 
policy start date which was chosen was after the date on which they were due to travel. So, 
their policy wouldnt have come into force until they were already away. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator, so I have no power to make any 
recommendations to either Mapfre or to the travel insurance industry more widely about the 
information provided on a claims information line or about the recording of telephone calls. 
This is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. My remit is only to decide whether I think 
Mapfre acted unfairly or unreasonably by turning down Mr and Mrs Ys claim based on the 
individual circumstances of their complaint. And, for the reasons Ive already given, I dont 
think Mapfre needs to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman