DRN-3577915
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain that Advantage Finance Ltd irresponsibly granted them two hire 
purchase agreements they couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In August 2014, Mr M and Mrs M acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase 
agreement (Agreement 1) from Advantage Finance. They were required to make 47 monthly 
repayments of £230 followed by a final payment of £405. The total repayable under the 
agreement was £11,191. This agreement was settled in October 2018. In March 2019, Mr M 
and Mrs M acquired another used car financed by a hire purchase agreement (Agreement 2) 
from Advantage Finance. Under Agreement 2 they paid a £100 deposit and were required to 
make 59 monthly repayments of £246 followed by a final payment of £446. The total 
repayable under the agreement was £15,059.
Mr M and Mrs M say that Advantage Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks. 
They say if it had, it would have seen the agreements werent affordable. Advantage Finance 
didnt agree. It said that it carried out thorough assessments which included gathering 
evidence on Mr M and Mrs Ms income and carrying out credit checks. It noted that while 
adverse information was recorded on Mr M and Mrs Ms credit checks this wasnt unusual for 
its customers as they were a specialist lender and provided finance for customers who may 
have impaired credit files.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Advantage Finance 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreements.
Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree and reiterated that adequate checks werent undertaken. They 
said both agreements were mis-sold on the grounds of affordability and irresponsible 
lending. Mrs M said she had a county court judgement in place at the time Agreement 1 was 
approved and that their finances deteriorated before Agreement 2 was provided.  
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Agreement 1
Before granting Agreement 1, I think Advantage Finance gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr M and Mrs M about their income as this was verified 
through the provision of payslips. However, the credit check Advantage Finance completed 
showed that there were a number of defaults recorded within the previous year as well as 
historic defaults. These were mainly on store cards and for relatively low amounts however 
given the number I think this should have raised concerns. Mrs M has also referred to a 
county court judgement (CCJ) in place at the time. However, as Advantage Finance carried 
out a credit check and the CCJ wasnt noted I do not find I can say it was reasonably aware 
or should have been reasonably aware of this. That said, given the information recorded on 
Mr M and Mrs Ms credit file I think this ought to have indicated that they were likely to be 
struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Advantage Finance to 
have got a more thorough understanding of Mr M and Mrs Ms financial circumstances 
before lending.
Advantage Finance didnt ask Mr M and Mrs M about their expenditure. Although it did 
complete credit checks, these wont have indicated what Mr M and Mrs Ms regular living 
expenses were. Without knowing what Mr M and Mrs Ms regular committed expenditure 
was Advantage Finance wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether 
Agreement 1 was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. 
One of the ways that Advantage Finance could have verified Mr M and Mrs Ms expenditure 
was by reviewing bank statements. In the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed three 
months of statements leading up to Agreement 1, and noted Mrs Ms comment about their 
spending on items such as food and transport, which I think gives a good indication of what 
Advantage Finance would likely have found out had it completed proportionate checks. 
Mr Ms payslip showed that his basic monthly income at the time was just under £1,400 and 
Mrs Ms payslip showed her monthly income was around £1,600. The bank statements show 
Mrs Ms income for the months leading up to Agreement 1 as averaging just over £1,550 and 
Mr Ms income as being above his basic income. Therefore, I think it reasonable that Mr M 
and Mrs Ms combined monthly income was considered to be around £3,000. The 
statements show that Mr M and Mrs Ms regular committed monthly expenditure for living 
costs such as rent, food, travel and other costs at the time was around £1,400. Additionally, 
they were paying for other financial commitments including to several debt management 
companies. Taking all this into account left Mr M and Mrs M with a monthly disposable 
income of over £1,200. So, while I note that the credit information raised concerns, I think 
further checks wouldnt have shown that the agreement was unaffordable. For this reason, 
Im not persuaded that Advantage Finance acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
Agreement 2
Before granting Agreement 2, Advantage Finance gathered information from Mr M and 
Mrs M about their income and I also note that Mr M and Mrs M had maintained the 
repayments on the previous agreement with only a few issues. However, the credit check 
Advantage Finance completed raised some concerns. Mr M and Mrs M had settled a 
number of their accounts before entering into Agreement 2 and the defaults were historic at 
this time. But they had also taken on new debt which increased their credit commitments and 
Mr M had an account enter a payment arrangement in December 2018. Therefore, as was 
the case with Agreement 1, I think it would have been proportionate for Advantage Finance 
to have got a more thorough understanding of Mr M and Mrs Ms financial circumstances 
before providing Agreement 2.
Advantage Finance didnt ask Mr M and Mrs M about their expenditure. As previously noted, 
completing credit checks wont have indicated what Mr M and Mrs Ms regular living 
expenses were and without knowing what Mr M and Mrs Ms regular committed expenditure 
was Advantage Finance wouldnt have got a reasonable understanding of whether the 
agreement was affordable or not. It therefore didnt complete proportionate checks. Ive reviewed the bank statements provided for the months leading up to Agreement 2 and 
noted Mrs Ms comment about their spending on items such as food and transport, which I 
think gives a good indication of what Advantage Finance would likely have found out had it 
completed proportionate checks. 
On the application for Agreement 2, Mr Ms monthly income was recorded as £1,800 and 
Mrs Ms as £2,100. I have looked through the bank statements from the time and these 
support these amounts, therefore I find it reasonable to base the assessment on a joint 
monthly income for Mr M and Mrs M of around £3,900. 
The statements show that Mr M and Mrs Ms regular committed monthly expenditure for 
living costs such as rent, food, travel and other costs at the time was around £1,300. 
Additionally they were paying for other financial commitments. These had increased since 
Agreement 1 and alongside the debt management companies, Mr M and Mrs M were 
making payments to several short term and high cost lenders.  Advantage Finance said in its 
final response letter that Mr M and Mrs Ms credit commitments totalled over £24,800 and 
while I note its comments that it considered this serviceable, given Mr M and Mrs Ms credit 
history I think this should have raised concerns. The bank statements show that in the month 
prior to Agreement 2 being provided, Mr M and Mrs M paid around £1,000 for credit 
commitments including payments to more than three short term loan providers. However, 
considering the amounts paid for living costs and financial commitments, this would still 
leave a disposable income of around £1,600. So while I can see Mr M and Mrs M were 
taking on credit commitments and making use of short term loan providers, I do not find that 
I have enough to say further checks would have shown the Agreement 2 to have been 
unaffordable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman