DRN-3315591
The complaint
Ms H complains about the actions of HSBC UK Bank Plc when she was tricked into 
transferring money as a result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In February 2021 Ms H made a £1,000 
payment internationally to start an investment. In May 2021 Ms H realised she had been 
scammed so she contacted HSBC to see if it could help her get a refund from the scammer. 
HSBC wasnt able to return the £1,000 payment so Ms H made a complaint. 
Ms H said she was unhappy HSBC had allowed the payment to be sent and with how HSBC 
handled the matter when she raised the scam. Ms H said HSBC was too slow to tell her she 
could contact the police in the country where she sent the £1,000 and this prevented her 
from being able to try and retrieve the money herself. HSBC said it hadnt made an error 
when it allowed the international payment to be sent because it was of a low value, and it 
couldnt refund the transaction under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM code) 
because this didnt cover international payments. But it did say it could have communicated 
with Ms H better when the scam was raised. So, it offered her £150. 
Ms H was unhappy with this response, so she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the 
payment wasnt sufficiently unusual or suspicious for HSBC to stop it and ask questions of 
Ms H about it. And that the £150 HSBC had offered was fair for the incorrect information 
HSBC had provided when the scam was raised. 
Ms H didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said HSBC shouldve done 
more to advise her that international bank transfers dont offer the same level of protection 
as credit and debit card payments. And HSBC couldve done more to stop the £1,000 
payment as she hadnt sent a payment internationally before. But after raising the scam a 
£20 payment she made to another bank in the UK was stopped and HSBC asked her about 
why she was making the payment which had never happened before. She says if the £1,000 
payment had been stopped and the same questions asked, she wouldnt have gone ahead. 
Ms H said that if HSBC had told her to report the matter to the police in the country she sent 
the money to when she raised the scam she couldve gone abroad to the police station to 
start the correct procedures to get her money back. But due to the delay and the Covid-19 
restrictions in the receiving banks country, from October 2021 onwards she couldnt fly 
abroad. So, she didnt think the £150 offer from HSBC was fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Ms H has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The CRM is a scheme through which consumers can sometimes be refunded by their bank 
when theyve been the victim of an authorised push payment scam. But the CRM explicitly 
excludes international payments like the one Ms H made. So, as the CRM doesnt apply to 
this complaint, I cant use it as the basis to ask HSBC to do more. 
It is common ground that Ms H authorised the £1,000 scam payment. I accept that this was 
an authorised payment even though Ms H was the victim of a scam. She provided valid 
instructions through her online banking. So, although it wasnt her intention to pay money to 
the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of her 
account, Ms H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for HSBC to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in 
order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
HSBCs first obligation is to follow the instruction that Ms H provided. But if that
instruction is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the account, Id expect HSBC to 
intervene and to ask their customer more about the intended transaction before processing 
it. Id also expect HSBC to provide suitable warnings about common scams to help their 
customers make an informed decision as to whether to continue with the payment. There 
might also be cases where its appropriate for HSBC to refuse to follow the instruction if 
there are good grounds to believe it is being made as a result of a fraud or scam. 
The starting point here is whether the instruction by Ms H given to HSBC to transfer £1,000 
was unusual in relation to her typical account activity. So, Ive reviewed the account 
statements for the six months prior to the scam payments being made. I think this gives a 
sufficient sample size to fairly assess the activity. The account typically maintained a low 
balance and Ms H used the account sparingly with few transactions on the account. Ms H 
did transfer money to her savings account with HSBC with the amounts ranging from £250 to 
£3,045. But overall, there wasnt a lot of regular activity for HSBC to compare this 
transaction to due to the way the account was being used. 
And although the payment was sent internationally, I dont think it was sufficiently unusual or 
suspicious for HSBC to intervene and ask questions of Ms H. Nor (in these circumstances) 
do I think HSBC shouldve warned Ms H about international payments not being as well 
protected as debit and credit cards. Its not uncommon for customers to send one-off larger 
payments on their accounts. And I wouldnt expect HSBC to stop every transaction that was 
sent internationally for the first time unless it was sufficiently unusual or suspicious  which I 
dont think it was here. There is a balance to be struck between stopping and checking 
payments and allowing customers free access to their money. But in this case, I dont think it 
is reasonable to have expected HSBC to have intervened.
I also dont think its unreasonable for HSBC to stop and discuss a small payment Ms H 
made on her account after it had been made aware that she had been the victim of fraud. And that doesnt lead me to conclude that because HSBC stopped a much smaller payment 
after Ms H was the victim of fraud, it must have unreasonably failed to stop the £1,000 
payment she made. 
HSBC informed the international bank of the problem when Ms H reported it. And whilst its 
possible that could have been done slightly sooner than it was, I dont think it makes a 
difference here. Thats because there was no response from the beneficiary when HSBC 
tried to reclaim Ms Hs funds - which is common when payments are made internationally 
because the beneficiary bank will often need the permission of the account holder to return 
the funds if they were still available. I understand this is frustrating because the money was 
sent to an HSBC bank abroad. But the receiving bank is considered a separate legal entity 
and is running under a separate regulatory authority. Overall, I dont think HSBC are 
responsible for any errors that prevented a recovery being made. 
HSBC has admitted it didnt provide the correct information in relation to whether or not Ms H 
shouldve contacted the police abroad. I note Ms H says this has likely meant she couldnt 
get her money back and that the delay this caused meant she couldnt fly abroad and visit 
the police station to try and recover her money. Even though there was a delay in HSBC 
mentioning the police, I dont think I can reasonably say that this delay clearly meant Ms H 
couldnt get her money back through the police and that this meant she couldnt fly abroad to 
try and recover the funds. 
I understand the points Ms H has made about the delay making it more difficult to fly abroad 
due to Covid-19 restrictions. And the delay meant she couldnt feasibly arrange the 
necessary travel requirements and the holiday from her work in time so she could fly abroad 
to speak to the police. But I dont think I can reasonably conclude it was more likely than not 
that Ms H would arrange annual leave from her work, a costly long-haul flight with Covid-19 
in mind and additional measures such as the extra cost needed to pay for tests, to try and 
recover a £1,000 loss to a scam. And that a two months delay on HSBCs part was the 
deciding factor in Ms H not making that journey. 
Ultimately, this service would expect HSBC to request a refund from the beneficiary bank 
through the banking channels  which is what HSBC did. The fraudulent payment was sent 
in February 2021, but the scam wasnt raised until May 2021. So, the chances of HSBC 
being able to return Ms Hs money was very low. And its very common for scammers to 
move money very quickly after its received. 
As a result, Im not persuaded in this instance that this means HSBC should refund the 
money Ms H lost as a result of this scam. 
I understand the distress that this situation has caused  but ultimately, its the scammer that 
has caused this issue. And, as Ive explained above, I dont think HSBC treated Ms H 
unfairly when allowing the payment to be sent. HSBC has said it couldve communicated 
more clearly with Ms H when the scam was raised, but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
agree that this meant Ms H couldnt personally attempt to get her money refunded. So, I 
think HSBCs offer to pay £150 is fair here. 
So, Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything more here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman