DRN-1216634
 
 
complaint
Mr A made a claim against his motor insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited following a 
road traffic accident. He said they have undervalued his vehicle after it was declared a total 
loss leaving him out of pocket.
background
Mr As car was involved in an accident in July 2019 and was declared a total loss. UKI 
valued his car at £6,800 which they later increased to £7,015. Mr A wasnt happy with this 
offer. He felt UKI had undervalued his car and found cars similar to his make and model 
being advertised for sale online between £9,000 and £11,000. 
UKI said that they acted within the policy terms to pay the market value of the car at time it 
was damaged. The say they calculated the market value based on industry recognised 
motor trade guides and offered the average of those valuations. So, they didnt think they 
had done anything wrong in basing the claim settlement on a value of £7,015 less £500 
excess.
An investigator at this service looked at this complaint. He didnt think UKI had done 
anything wrong. He said the policy terms made it clear that any amount paid would be no 
more than the market value of the car. He concluded that UKI had offered Mr A market value 
of the car and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A didnt agree with the investigator and so 
this has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
policy terms
The investigator has explained this services approach to complaints about car valuations by 
insurers in that we dont provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers 
valuation is reasonable. So, Ive looked at what Mr As insurance policy says UKI will do in 
this situation. The policy terms and conditions say: 
 If your car is damaged, we will pay the cost of repairing or replacing your vehicle up to its 
UK market value. This is the current value of the vehicle at the time of the claim  and it may 
be different to the amount you paid or any amounts we spoke about when you insured your 
vehicle with us.
Market value  the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and 
of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.Mr As car was declared a total loss, so the policy provides for the cars market value to be 
paid. The policy terms say what market value is  the cost of replacing the car with another 
of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident or 
loss. 
market value
In assessing what we consider to be market value is, we obtain valuations from motor trade 
guides. We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations 
are based on nationwide research of likely sales figures. The guides also take into account 
regional variations as well as the cars make, model and other specifications. So, we 
generally find them to be more reliable than other resources such as adverts. Although we 
do take adverts into account, we also take all of the other available evidence into account; 
for example, engineers reports.
I fully understand Mr As frustration with the situation hes in as hes found several examples 
of cars with the same make, model and specifications as his car that are advertised for sale 
at a higher price. But these prices are an offer to sell. The offers reflect that a consumer will 
want to negotiate the price at the time of purchase. This is not necessarily the price that will 
be obtained. So, these advertised sale prices can often be misleading when assessing the 
market value of a car. 
UKIs valuation has been assessed by an engineer who thought the offer was fair and 
reasonable. UKI considered valuations given by four trade guides but excluded the highest 
value of £9,727 when coming to their valuation. Generally, if one of the motor trade guides is 
out of line - that includes both higher and lower than the other valuations, our service would 
say that its reasonable for the insurer to exclude it when coming to their valuation. This is on 
the basis that for some reason, that particular guide is much less likely to be providing an 
accurate valuation. 
Our investigator checked the valuations of Mr As car in the motor trade guides we use. And 
he also thought UKIs offer was fair. I can see that he checked for the correct make, model, 
mileage and options as Mr As car. And I can see that the settlement that UKI offered is the 
average of the three valuations provided by the trade guides we use. The lowest valuation 
being £6,404, the second being £7,200 and the third being £7,445. The average of these 
valuations is £7016 and UKI offered Mr A £7,015. 
This means I think UKIs offer was made correctly according to our approach and in line with 
the policy terms. So, I think their settlement offer based on the market value of Mr As car at 
the time of its loss is fair and reasonable. I know Mr A will be disappointed with my decision, 
but I wont be asking UKI to increase the settlement offer.
 
my final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman