DRN-3891436
The complaint
Ms K has complained about the lack of action ITI Capital Limited (ITI) has taken with her 
holding of Policy Selection Limited Assured Fund GBP C class despite her instruction to 
redeem her holding. 
What happened
In May 2007 Ms K invested £20,000 into the Assured Fund GBP C class which after 
purchase was initially held in the nominee of a predecessor of ITI. Ms K asked for the 
investment to be sold in March 2008, but she says her requests were ignored. 
Ms K was written to in January 2021 by the fund administrators advising her of the 
redemption deadline of 31 March 2021. She tried to contact ITI about this but didnt receive 
any response. She is of the opinion that ITI is fraudulent. 
Ms K was told by the fund administrators that it couldnt release any redemption proceeds to 
ITI because of anti-money laundering regulations. And it said that it was only able to accept 
redemption instructions from authorised signatories that reflected the investors name  ITI 
as it was held in ITIs nominee. 
Ms K complained to ITI but didnt receive any reply so brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be 
upheld. He said;
There was evidence that Ms K had made redemption and transfer requests from 
2019.
ITI hadnt communicated with Ms K as it should have done.
The process had been distressing for Ms K as she saw the value of her holding 
decrease and couldnt do anything about it.
In July 2021 ITI sent notification to Ms K that it would be closing its retail business 
and that she should close her position or transfer to another broker.
Ms K was advised by the fund administrator that the holding could be transferred to 
her name if ITI completed some documentation that it was sent in July 2021. The 
investigator couldnt see that ITI had contacted the administrator or had any success 
regarding the re-registration.
The investigator recommended that ITI pay Ms K £500 for the distress she had been 
caused by the poor customer service and lack of response over many years. And it 
should arrange for the re-registration of the holding into Ms Ks name.
If ITI evidenced that re-registration wasnt possible then it should contact the fund 
manager and obtain a fair value of the holding and which should be paid to Ms K to 
enable her to close her account and for it to take ownership of the holding. 
ITI didnt respond to the investigator. As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator explained to Ms K that as she had complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
in 2017 about redemptions of the fund not being actioned, he could only consider any failure 
to action her requests after that date. He also couldnt consider any aspects of her complaint 
prior to six years from when she raised the complaint in April 2021 because of the time limits 
that apply. 
As a background to the investment, my understanding of the Assured Fund is that it invests 
in life assurance policies. The fund administrator first placed restrictions on redemptions in 
2008 after experiencing cash flow problems. Any redemptions would first be made at a 
discounted net realisable value (NRV) rather than the usual net asset value (NAV). 
Subsequent to that the life expectancies of those insured by the policies held in this type of 
fund were assessed to be longer than expected. And in 2011 the UK regulator described 
traded life policy investments  such as this fund  as toxic and moved to ban their 
marketing to retail clients. So clearly the fund was problematic from not long after Ms K 
made her investment.
I can see from the file that Ms K communicated with ITI and the fund managers over several 
years about redemption of the investment. In 2019 ITI explained that the administrator hadnt 
made any redemptions since 2009 (the investment manager later confirmed that the fund 
had moved to redemptions on an NRV basis from 2009 and it had paid redemptions until 
2013 but nothing since then) and wasnt able to accept any redemption requests at that time. 
I am aware there had been notification that the redemption process of the fund would be 
completed by the end of August 2019, but I cant see that this happened at that time or 
subsequently.
In January 2021 the fund manager wrote to all shareholders and advised again that the fund 
was ready for redemption in March 2021 and that if the investor wished to redeem their 
position, they should complete the redemption forms. Ms K returned the forms but was told 
that the investor name  I assume she used her own name  couldnt be identified on its 
systems. It was in the nominee of ITI and would have been registered as such. Ms K 
contacted ITI and was told her request was being reviewed by its corporate actions team, 
but nothing further happened, and the redemption date passed. 
Ms K continued to be in contact with ITI about either the redemption or transfer of the 
holding into her own name. In June 2022 shareholders were advised that distributions 
couldnt be made pending the Assured Fund receiving a payment that was due but was 
being held up because of taxation issues. 
This suggests to me that the fund is ongoing but illiquid. And the fund manager has 
confirmed there havent been any redemptions of the fund since 2013  and which Ms K is 
now aware of. So, Im satisfied ITI cant be held responsible for Ms K not being able to 
redeem her holding. 
But its also clear there was a lot of correspondence between Ms K and all the parties which 
no doubt must have been extremely frustrating for her, compounded by the poor 
communication she received from ITI who should have been her point of contact throughout. 
The investigator made this clear in his opinion letter and also looked to see if the holding 
could be transferred into Ms Ks name or what other alternatives were available to her. ITI confirmed with our investigator that because of its status the holding wasnt available for 
certification or transfer to another broker. But it has now said theres the possibility it could 
be transferred via a special migration account using a service called Fundsettle and then 
re-registered into Ms Ks name, which I understand is her preference. 
We have asked ITI for further clarification about this, but it hasnt responded. However, as 
ITI is closing its retail business this seems to be the most appropriate resolution. Either that 
or if it cant be transferred, it can be retained by ITI for it to redeem when possible in 
exchange for a fair value payment to Ms K.
Overall, I appreciate that it hasnt been possible for Ms K to have redeemed her holding as 
there hasnt been the opportunity to do so. But like the investigator I do recognise that Ms K 
has been trying to redeem her holding over several years and has received very little support 
or explanation from ITI as to why this wasnt successful. To try to resolve her concerns, Ms K 
was in touch with the fund manager and the fund administrator which she shouldnt have had 
to have done. Her holding was held within ITIs nominee and it was ITIs responsibility to 
contact the parties with the redemption requests etc and raise any questions that needed 
answering on Ms Ks behalf. 
So, despite the fact Im satisfied that Ms K couldnt have redeemed her holding in the fund, I 
agree that ITI hasnt done enough to help Ms K or sufficiently address her queries about the 
possibility of redemption or re-registration to her name and which now looks like it may be 
possible.  As such, in the individual circumstances of this case I uphold Ms Ks complaint 
and ITI needs to put the matter right.

Putting things right
To put the matter right ITI should;
Pay Ms K £500 for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered because of the 
lack of contact by ITI over several years.
ITI should arrange for the holdings to be re-registered into Ms Ks name using 
Fundsettle as advised by ITI if that is possible.
If for any reason re-registration isnt possible, ITI should provide evidence that is the 
case. It should contact the fund manager to establish a fair value which should be 
agreed with Ms Ks and paid it to her.  Ms K can close her account with ITI. It would 
be for ITI to redeem the holding when it was possible to do so. 
If ITI Capital Limited doesnt pay Ms K the sum above within one month of receiving from us 
notification of Ms Ks acceptance of my decision, ITI Capital Limited should also pay Ms K 
simple interest on the sum at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision until the 
date ITI Capital Limited pays my award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ks complaint and ITI Capital Limited should put the 
matter right as outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Catherine LangleyOmbudsman