DRN-3697682
The complaint
Mr F has complained about how Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited (Accredited) dealt 
with a claim under a home insurance policy.
Mr F has a representative but, for ease, I will only refer to Mr F.
What happened
Mr F contacted Accredited to make a claim when some of the stonework on the outer wall of 
his home collapsed. Accredited sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. Following this, 
Accredited declined the claim. It said there werent storm conditions and the claim wasnt 
covered under accidental damage because an exclusion applied.
When Mr F complained, Accredited maintained its decision to decline the claim. However, it 
accepted that Mr F hadnt been given enough information about the reason for this when the 
claim was first declined. It offered £50 compensation. 
Mr F complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said there 
werent storm conditions and it also wasnt accidental damage because the surveyor had 
found that the damage had happened gradually.
As Mr F didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 10 August 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at weather reports for the period before the damage 
happened. I didnt see windspeeds in the local area that would be considered storm 
conditions as defined by the policy, which gave a minimum windspeed of 54mph. Mr F also 
provided weather data from a wind station that appeared to be at a local visitor attraction. 
This showed windspeeds greater than 54mph. I asked Accredited to consider this weather 
data. Having done so, it said it didnt think this showed there were storm conditions. It had 
spoken to its weather data provider who had said its records were accurate to within one 
kilometre. The weather data Mr F had provided was from a website where the weather data 
was uploaded by weather stations operated as a hobby and the readings were uncalibrated 
and unregulated. So, thinking about this, I currently think it was reasonable for Accredited to 
decline the claim as storm damage, as I dont think there was evidence of storm conditions. 
As a result, I dont need to consider the other questions.
So, Ive thought about whether the claim should be covered as accidental damage. When 
Accrediteds surveyor viewed the damage, he said:
The roof detail forms a central valley which runs into a hopper. The hopper is central to the 
area of collapsed wall. When this area of the building is viewed internally within the front and 
rear left hand bedrooms there is evidence of historic damp patches in the vicinity of the roof 
hop[p]er/valley detail. This suggests that a leak has been occurring in the area for many 
years.
We consider that over many years the infill material between the two masonry skins has 
settled downwards causing the wall to bulge. It is most probable, given the evidence of a 
leaking hopper/valley in the vicinity of the damage that water has been seeping into the 
cavity causing the additional settlement of the loose infill material as well as adding 
additional weight. This increase in pressure has caused the external skin to bulge sufficient 
for it to collapse. The mechanism of this is gradual over many years.
I asked Accredited a number of questions, as I wasnt persuaded the surveyors findings 
were clearly supported by the evidence. I thought it was unclear what the evidence was that 
the damp patch was historic and whether there was any evidence other than the damp patch 
that the hopper was damaged. Although I understood the process described with the infill 
material, I also thought it wasnt clear this was what had actually happened at Mr Fs 
property, even if it was common in properties of the type and age of Mr Fs. Accredited 
provided a range of responses. However, these havent persuaded me that there was clear 
evidence to support the surveyors findings that the damage at Mr Fs property had 
happened gradually.
As well as responding to my questions, Accredited said it would be willing to arrange for 
another survey to be carried out to show the cause of the damage. It named a particular 
company and said it carried out laser surveys. This service put this offer to Mr F. He declined 
it because he said the surveyor wasnt independent, he was concerned he wouldnt have 
access to the findings and he didnt think a laser survey was an appropriate type of survey to 
carry out.
Given Im not persuaded by the surveyors findings, I think Accrediteds offer of another 
survey was reasonable, although I have no view on whether a laser survey was the 
appropriate type of survey. Im also mindful of Mr Fs reasons for declining Accrediteds offer. 
I think a further survey being carried out is the most appropriate way to identify whether the 
damage was the result of an insured risk. So, I currently intend to require Accredited to 
provide Mr F with the details of three independent surveyors so that Mr F can choose one of 
them. Accredited will then be required to pay for the surveyor, but they will be jointly 
appointed. Both parties should provide evidence to the surveyor for consideration. The 
surveyor can then inspect the damage and assess its cause and whether it was the result of 
an insured risk. Both parties will be bound by the independent surveyors findings.
Ive also thought about compensation. Accredited offered £50 compensation because it said 
it hadnt properly explained the reasons why the claim had been declined. It also provided 
further details of the survey findings. I was pleased to see Accredited acknowledged it hadnt 
provided Mr F with enough information. But as I think the survey findings werent sufficient to 
show it was reasonable to decline the claim, I dont think what Accredited offer was enough 
to reflect the impact on Mr F. As a result, I currently intend to say Accredited should pay a 
total of £200 compensation, which includes the £50 Accredited previously offered.I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 7 September 2022.
Accredited didnt reply to my provisional decision.
Mr Fs representative sent comments, which I have summarised:
Mr F accepted my provisional decision under duress, as it appeared to be the only 
reasonable solution, but said this would only be fair if the full extent of accidental/ storm 
damage is considered. Ideally, they wanted the surveyor to consider the possibility that 
the damage had been ongoing for a long period, as this was the only reason for not 
accepting the claim as Accidental Damage.
It was false for Accredited to say the weather data was from an uncalibrated weather 
station and it wasnt acceptable for it to say that the provider had no accreditation.
Mr F had previously submitted a GDPR request to Accredited, which hadnt received a 
response. He would therefore submit a new request, but initial indications were that 
Accredited hadnt completed any weather searches.
My provisional decision explained about the questions I had put to Accredited about the 
evidence to support its decision. The representative said Accredited hadnt provided 
evidence to suggest the damage had occurred over a period of time. In fact, the 
evidence suggested it was sudden and unforeseeable.
The representatives understanding was that there was policy coverage for storm 
damage and accidental damage. He had also provided evidence of storms, but if 
Accredited didnt want to cover the claim under that peril, it should have been covered as 
Accidental Damage. He questioned why Mr F had to fight the case when it was up to the 
insurance company to prove that a claim wasnt covered if he could demonstrate 
damage and evidence of one or two perils being in operation.
He provided an email from an independent firm of surveyors detailing their thoughts on 
the proximate cause.
The surveyor was pleased that my provisional decision said Accredited must justify its 
position.
He asked me to reaffirm his previous position. He had asked Accredited to adhere to a 
GDPR request. The information submitted was poor and not detailed enough. He would 
now submit a further GDPR request to Accredited and expected all the weather reports 
and discussions with the weather data company to be provided. He asked me to advise 
Accredited that it must adhere to the GDPR request in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that, Ive carefully considered all the points raised by Mr Fs 
representative, even if I dont comment on them here. 
To be clear, my decision requires the surveyor to inspect the damage and assess its cause 
and whether it was the result of an insured risk. That includes any peril listed in the policy, 
including storm and accidental damage. Both parties can provide evidence. So, Mr F might 
wish to consider whether to provide the surveyors email to the jointly appointed surveyor.
I am aware that Mr Fs representative has contacted Accredited with a new GDPR request. I 
am unable to tell Accredited how it should handle that request. If Mr F or his representative are unhappy about how it is dealt with, they would need to raise it with Accredited in the first 
instance.
I remain of the view that £200, including the £50 already offered by Accredited, is 
appropriate in the circumstances because of the impact on Mr F due to the unclear and 
incomplete information provided to him on why the claim was declined.
Putting things right
Accredited should provide Mr F with the details of three independent surveyors for Mr F to 
choose from. The surveyor should inspect the damage and assess its cause and whether it 
was the result of an insured risk. Both parties should submit evidence to the surveyor they 
want to be considered. The surveyor will be jointly appointed and Accredited should pay the 
cost of the surveyor. Accredited should also pay a total of £200 compensation, which 
includes the £50 it previously offered.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited to:
Provide Mr F with the details of three independent surveyors, so he can choose one and 
a full assessment of the damage can be carried out. The surveyor will be jointly 
appointed and both parties will be bound by the surveyors findings.
Pay the costs of the surveyor.
Pay Mr F £200 compensation, which includes the £50 already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman