DRN-3298651
The complaint
Ms W has complained that DTW Associates Limited trading as Auto Advance lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint in January 2022 that I summarise below.
Ms W was given two logbook loans by DTW in 2018. Both loans were secured against a
vehicle that Ms W owned.
The first loan in January 2018 was for £3,000, due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of
about £255. The total amount payable, including interest, was just over £9,210. I understand
Ms W settled this loan when she borrowed again from DTW a few months later.
The second loan in May 2018 was for £6,000, due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of
about £511. The total amount payable, including interest was just over £18,420. I understand
this second loan has also been settled.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the steps that DTW 
needed to take such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and expenditure. 
I said that DTW was required to establish whether Ms W could sustainably repay her loans - 
not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
I set out the overarching questions I considered in order to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did DTW complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms W 
would be able to repay her loans in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair 
lending decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have 
shown at the time?
Did DTW act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
DTW asked Ms W for information about her income and expenditure and it acquired a credit
report. DTW says that Ms Ws credit score was below average, and it considered the
declared expenditure didnt match with its expectation, so it requested bank statements to
verify Ms Ws financial position. DTW provided transactional data from Ms Ws bank
statements which it says were supplied electronically by a third party. From what Id seen, I
thought the checks that DTW carried out before it agreed to lend to Ms W each time were
reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
DTW thinks both loans were affordable for Ms W.
The credit report acquired by DTW prior to loan one noted that Ms W had 3 credit accounts
in arrears. She also had 6 defaulted accounts, but I thought it would have been reasonable 
for the lender to have considered these defaults to be historic.
I reviewed the information supplied including the transactional data and also Ms Ws
bank statements. Various sums were being transferred in and out of her account, over and 
above Ms Ws salary and benefits. I hadnt seen anything which explains whether DTW 
queried these extra funds at the time or whether it took steps to establish whether these 
sums were likely to be a sustainable source of additional income for the whole of the loan 
term. It appeared that Ms W was spending more than she had estimated on her application 
for the first loan. There are some returned payments and direct debits on Ms Ws bank 
statements, unarranged overdraft charges and Ms W had taken at least one other high cost 
loan in the month prior to her first loan with DTW. But I didnt think it would have been 
unreasonable for DTW to assume that Ms W was borrowing in order to put herself into
a better financial position overall. 
On balance, from what Id seen, I couldnt fairly say that I thought DTW ought reasonably to 
have come to the conclusion that Ms W was in such a poor position financially that it would 
be irresponsible or unreasonable to provide the first loan to her. I said I was not intending to 
uphold Ms Ws complaint about her first loan.
However, I didnt think that DTW made a fair lending decision when it provided the
second loan to Ms W.
DTW again checked Ms Ws income, credit file and reviewed bank statements prior to
providing the second loan. It calculated that the second loan was affordable.
But I thought DTW focussed its calculation of whether the loan was affordable for Ms W on a
pounds and pence basis. As Id already explained, the lender was required to establish
whether the borrower could sustainably meet her loan repayments  not just whether the
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. The
loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in
particular without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer should be
able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as
without having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise,
or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without
borrowing further.
Ms W was returning to borrow for a second time from DTW around four months into a 36-
month loan term. She was borrowing twice the amount she had previously borrowed; her
monthly repayments also doubled, and she was liable to repay over £18,000 if the loan ran
to its full term. Ms Ws regular income from her salary and benefits had not substantially
increased and I hadnt seen anything to suggest that DTW had confirmed that Ms W was
due to receive regular additional income on a sustainable basis throughout the loan term.
Ms W would be committing a substantial portion of her regular income to repay the second
loan, which also substantially increased her indebtedness to DTW. Her credit report showed
an increased number of credit lines that were in arrears. Ms Ws bank statements showed
she had been experiencing an increased number of returned direct debits and other returned
payments in the months leading up to the second loan (despite taking the first loan) and she
was still paying bank charges for unarranged overdraft usage. DTW also noted a possible
loss of income in April. I thought DTW ought reasonably to have realised that overall, Ms W
was at high risk of experiencing financial difficulty and that her financial position was
worsening. And from what Id seen, Ms W did experience difficulties meeting herrepayments within a short time of taking the second loan. I understand that her vehicle was
repossessed because she was unable to meet her repayments, and Ms W had to make a
payment to DTW to settle the second loan and pay a repossession fee.
Taking matters as a whole, I thought on balance that DTW ought reasonably to have 
realised that it was unlikely that in her circumstances, Ms W would be able to sustainably 
repay her second loan over the extended loan term. I thought in these particular 
circumstances, DTW should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate to lend 
to Ms W for a second time.
Id not seen anything which made me think that DTW treated Ms W unfairly in any other
way. But I didnt think DTW should have agreed to provide the second loan to Ms
W. I said I was intending to uphold Ms Ws complaint about the second loan and
directing DTW to put things right.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. Ms has told us that she 
accepts my provisional decision. DTW didnt comment further, but it provided its calculation 
of the charges and interest due to Ms W in accordance with my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter. 
Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
I am upholding Ms Ws complaint about her second loan and DTW should put things right.Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms W to have repaid the principal amount that she 
borrowed, because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest and 
charges on lending that shouldnt have been provided to her. I understand that DTW has 
already returned the V5 logbook to Ms W.
DTW should:
Remove all interest, fees, and charges from the second loan, including any charges 
or fees arising from the repossession of Ms Ws vehicle, and treat all the payments 
Ms W made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Ms Ws loan account results in her having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then DTW should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ws credit file in relation to the 
second loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires DTW to deduct tax from this interest. DTW should give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold this complaint and direct DTW Associates 
Limited trading as Auto Advance to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2022.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman