DRN-3464952
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd refused to provide her a refund after she fell victim
to a fraud.
What happened
In early 2021, Miss R was contacted by a person on a social media platform claiming to work
as an agent for a cryptocurrency investment platform. Miss R looked at the web page for the
businesswhich she thought looked realand had seen a number of positive reviews about
the business.
Miss R followed the agents instruction to fill out her details on their website and was
persuaded to make an initial investment of £1,500. After making her initial investment,
Miss R was asked for a number of further payments for what the agent described as tax,
maintenance, securities, certificates and the withdrawal of the investment.
Miss R, in total, paid circa £30,000 to the agent. £14,261 of this was paid through her Monzo
account. These were made up of several card payments to a legitimate cryptocurrency
platform that held a wallet in Miss Rs name. She then forwarded the payments from her
cryptocurrency wallet to a Bitcoin address the agent had provided her. Unfortunately, it later
transpired that Miss R had fallen victim to an investment scam.
Miss R made a complaint to Monzo stating that it could have done more to protect her.
Monzo initially responded partially upholding her complaint. But this was due to minor
administrative errors in service. It didnt however agree that it should be held liable for the
payments made.
Miss R brought her complaint to our service for an independent review. This prompted
Monzo to reassess the complaint and it agreed it should have repaid some of the funds lost.
It said that its systems did flag the payments as suspicious and it temporarily blocked the
account after £7,961 of the payments had been made. However, appropriate steps were not
taken after the suspicious activity was identified and the account was unblocked. Therefore,
Monzo refunded £6,300 of the payments. It also offered to pay Miss R 8% interest on the
amount and £200 in compensation to apologise for not reimbursing the funds sooner. 
Miss R didnt accept this offer. She felt that Monzo should have refunded all the payments
made. So, an Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties.
Having done so, they concluded that Monzo should have done more. Broadly, they felt
Monzo should have identified the payments from the first one made. But they also felt that
Miss R could have done more to protect herself. So, they recommended Monzo repay 50%
of the remaining payments lost: calculated at £3,980.50.
Monzo disagreed. It said Miss R made legitimate purchases of cryptocurrency and didnt
think the payments were out of character considering the lack of account history.
As Monzo disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter was passed to
me for a decision. After reviewing the information provided by both parties, I didnt agree with 
the Investigators assessment. I therefore issued a provisional decision on the 20 October 
2022 to both parties asking for any further comments before issuing my final decision. My 
provisional decision said:
Its common ground here that Miss R authorised the payments in dispute. She was duped 
by the fraudsters into making the card payments to her cryptocurrency wallet and sending 
this on to the fraudsters. I accept that these were authorised payments even though 
Miss R was the victim of a scam. And although she didnt intend the money to go to 
fraudsters, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulator rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I 
consider Monzo should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts, and any payments made or received, to 
counter various risks, including money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, which banks 
are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make the payment altogether. To help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Monzo submitted in its response to the Investigators assessment that it didnt agree it 
should have intervened in the first payment made by Miss R to her crypto wallet. It 
pointed out that these types of transactions are common across its customers accounts. 
It also relied upon the lack of account history Miss R had to argue that it couldnt 
reasonably have identified the first payments as a potential risk. But Im not persuaded 
by this argument.
Monzo has supplied statements for the account dating back a year prior to the first 
transaction made. I think this is a sufficient amount of time to build a sense of a 
customers pattern of spending and what may be considered out of character.
Having looked at these statements, Miss R seldom made transactions of any substantial 
value. The highest payment on Miss Rs account was for £100, and the account was 
generally used for lower value payments and transactions of less than £50. So, when 
Miss R made the first payment of £3,500, I think this was considerably out of character for 
her account. It saw a sudden, and sharp, increase in spending which almost cleared the 
balance of the account; two significant red flags that an account may be at risk.
While not necessarily important to highlight, considering the out of character payment, I 
also think that a payment to a crypto platform does increase the risk of the payment. 
Particularly where the customer isnt known to have made payment to one previously. 
Crypto scams are prevalent and generally used by fraudsters to extract funds from victims 
without detection.
So, considering the above factors, Im persuaded that the first payment made by Miss R 
was out of character and should have prompted concern and intervention by Monzo. Im 
also persuaded that Monzo likely would have been able to prevent any further payments being made.
Had Miss R disclosed the circumstances in which she was approached regarding the 
investmentthrough social mediaand she explained the return she was promised from 
it, it would have been quite obvious she was falling victim to a scam. And this no doubt 
would have led to the appropriate warnings, or Monzo stopping the payment altogether. 
Having said this, these facts also persuade me that Miss R should also take some 
responsibility for the payments made.
I accept that Miss R was likely nave when it came to financial matters and was 
inexperienced in investments of this nature. But I feel she ignored red flags when it came 
to the investment proposal and the reasons for the subsequent payments that she was 
being asked to make to release the initial investment.
Miss R was told initially that if she invested £350, she would see returns of over £4,500. 
Had she conducted minimal research on investments, I think she would have seen this 
was unrealistic and too good to be true. She also proceeded to make circa £25,000 in 
payments post her original £1,500 investment for what the fraudster described as tax, 
maintenance, securities, certificates and the withdrawal of the investment. I think this 
should have caused Miss R some concern considering shed invested a significantly lower 
amount than the subsequent payments she was instructed to make.
Miss R has said she felt pressured to make these payments to prevent her losing her 
original investment, but she did have time to take a step back and consider the legitimacy 
of the requests being made. She also had an opportunity to question these requests 
further and seek advice on whether they were genuine. But instead, she continued to 
make a substantial number of transactions despite the increasingly suspicious nature of 
their purpose.
Ive also seen a limited number of screenshots of the communication she had with the 
fraudsters. These dont strike me as professional in their content and I find they should 
have caused Miss R some concern.
For all the above reasons, I think Miss R should bear equal responsibility for her loss. 
Monzo has already reimbursed Miss R £6,300 of the payments made, so Im minded to 
say it should now go ahead and refund Miss R the remaining 50% of the payments.
As Miss R has told our service that the payments were funded from her savings account, 
held with another bank, Im minded to say that Monzo should pay that accounts interest rate 
for the time Miss R was without the funds. Im also minded to say that the £200 offered by 
Monzo as payment for the distress and inconvenience of not settling this claim sooner is fair 
in the circumstances.
Miss R agreed with the findings and proposed outcome set out in the provisional decision. 
However, Monzo maintained its position that it had fairly resolved the matter already by 
giving a partial refund. But it didnt give any further comment or considerations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no further comment or considerations have been provided by either party, I dont intend 
to depart from my provisional decision above.While I appreciate Monzo still disagrees with my position on this matter, I have explained in 
detail why I find this to be a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances.
Putting things right
Monzo should now go ahead and settle the complaint as proposed in the provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Miss R the remaining 50% of the total payments she made  calculated at 
£830.50.
Pay simple annual interest at the savings account rate where the funds originated 
from: given as 0.30%. Monzo should pay this from the date of the payments to the 
date it settles with Miss R. This will vary on the £6,300 already paid and the £850.50 
yet to be settled.
Pay Miss R the £200 offered for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman