DRN-2092732
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited has declined a 
claim he made on his income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr C took out an income protection policy in August 2018. During the application process he 
was asked a series of questions, including questions about his physical and mental health. 
In April 2019 Mr C made a claim for extreme stress. He explained that this was caused by 
his young child being diagnosed with cancer. Mr C became the primary carer for his child 
during an intensive course of treatment. 
Royal London declined Mr Cs claim on the basis that he hadnt fully disclosed his medical 
history during the application process, in particular that he hadnt disclosed previous 
appointments and medication relating to his mental health. Royal London said, in summary, 
that Mr C hadnt taken reasonable care when completing the application form and, had this 
information been disclosed, theyd have applied an exclusion to the policy for claims relating 
to mental health (including stress and anxiety). 
They offered Mr C the opportunity to cancel the policy or continue with it with the exclusion in 
place. Mr C complained to Royal London but they maintained their decision to decline the 
claim. Mr C made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Royal London to decline the claim based on the available medical evidence. He explained 
that Royal London had applied the relevant legislation when concluding Mr C had made a 
careless misrepresentation and that the options theyd offered him were fair. 
Mr C didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He provided further 
information in relation to his physical condition during his childs illness and more information 
about the treatment hed had in the past in relation to his mental health. 
At my request our investigator clarified that some of the information provided in relation to 
Mr Cs physical condition went beyond what hed originally claimed for which was extreme 
stress. So, he explained that Mr C would need to refer this information to Royal London if he 
wanted to pursue a claim on the basis he was physically unable to work. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have a great deal of empathy with Mr Cs situation. Its clear that he and his family have 
had a very difficult and traumatic time whilst dealing with their young childs diagnosis and 
treatment. And, I entirely appreciate that not receiving an income during that time can have 
only added to their worry and distress. However, my role is to consider the evidence in the 
case and decide whether Royal London has acted fairly by declining the claim.
Mr C has also provided more recent evidence relating to his physical ability to work during 
the relevant period due to physical exhaustion. But the claim he made was for extreme 
stress (with associated trauma and exhaustion). And this isnt information that Royal London 
has had the opportunity to consider. So, if Mr C wishes to pursue a claim on the basis he 
was physically unable to work hell need to do approach Royal London first. My decision 
relates to the decision to decline the claim for extreme stress.  
Royal London says Mr C incorrectly answered medical questions which he was asked
when he bought his insurance policy. This means the law set out in the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think its fair and
reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mr Cs claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered when deciding whether a
consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the
insurer were. 
Mr C was asked several questions when taking out the policy in August 2018. This included 
being asked;
Have you ever had, or do you currently have, any of the following? 
Any mental health issue that has required hospital treatment or referral to a 
specialist, or have you considered or attempted self-harm? 
Including: Specialist Clinic or referral to a psychiatrist. Specialist includes psychiatrist 
and any hospital or clinic including private clinic, such as the Priory. Attempting or 
contemplating suicide. 
Apart from anything youve already told us about, during the last five years have you 
had, or do you currently have, any of the following:
Anxiety, depression, stress or mental illness? 
Including: Work Stress, Insomnia, Eating disorders such as anorexia or 
bulimia, Persistent tiredness or fatigue, including chronic fatigue syndrome 
and ME, Addiction, Any treatment or medication for mental illness e.g. 
counselling, tablets (whether taken or not) 
Been prescribed medication or treatment regularly for a period of four 
consecutive weeks or more, or have you been under review from your doctor 
or a medical professional? 
Including Physio, Counselling, Prescriptions from your own doctor, even if you 
did not take them. You dont need to tell us about contraception, fertility, 
dental treatment or reviews purely in relation to pregnancy. Royal London says, in response to these questions, Mr C should have told them about 
appointments with his GP, appointments with counsellors and medication he was prescribed 
at various times between 2006 and 2018. 
In deciding whether I think Mr C took reasonable care in answering these questions, Ive 
reviewed his medical records and Ive also considered what Mr C has told us about his 
medical history. Ive also taken into account the further information from Mr Cs GP in 
relation to his claim for extreme stress.
Mr C had counselling in 2006 and his GP records say that he was having panic attacks in 
2011, for which he was prescribed medication. He was also referred to mental health 
services in 2011. Mr C argues that he wasnt referred to a specialist and these were issues 
born out of very specific circumstances, including bereavement and work stress. But, even if 
I accept that argument, I still think that Mr C failed to answer the other questions with 
reasonable care. 
Mr C took out the policy in 2018, so he was required to disclose information about his 
medical history in the five years before he took out the policy. I think Mr C should have told 
Royal London about the following information in response to the questions they asked.  
Mr C went to the doctor in 2017. The medical notes say that he was feeling anxious and 
stressed. The more recent GP letter said that Mr C was experiencing an acute stressful 
situation and associated anxiety symptoms. He was prescribed propranolol twice. Mr C says 
that this was a situational challenge and not an underlying mental health issue. But the 
medical notes say that Mr C was feeling anxious and stressed, was seeing a counsellor and 
wanted a short-term prescription as hed previously found it helpful. 
He was then prescribed propranolol in July 2018 for stress at home  he was advised to take 
the tablets as needed. The medical notes say that Mr C had previously been prescribed 
propranolol for symptoms of anxiety and stress. It goes on to say that Mr C was having 
issues with money and home and that he was having issues sleeping and that he was 
hopeful it would be a short term issue. Mr C was signposted to self-help websites and other 
sources of support. Mr C says that he had an initial consultation with a psychological therapy 
service on the 17 August 2018, but he didnt know when he completed the application on 18 
August that hed be referred for Cognitive Behavioural Therapy.  
The follow up letter, dated 17 August says:
The above patient had an initial consultation with our service on 17/08/18. They 
identified their problem area as symptoms of re-occurring depression and anxiety 
which have worsened due to experiencing relationship difficulties and work stress 
We have agreed that 1:1 Cognitive Behavioural Therapy would be the most 
appropriate intervention to meet their current needs.
The letter also says that the questionnaires Mr C completed indicated moderate depression 
and anxiety. 
 
The relevant question asked Mr C about Any treatment or medication for mental illness e.g. 
counselling, tablets (whether taken or not). I dont think it was unreasonable for Royal 
London to conclude the trips to the GP were treatment and the prescriptions should have 
been disclosed. I also note that Mr C had accessed treatment shortly before his application 
and was waiting to find out about a referral to CBT. 
Having, taken all of the above into account, I dont think it was unreasonable for Royal 
London to conclude Mr C should have disclosed information about those appointments and medication when answering the questions Ive set out above. Therefore, I think Mr C did 
make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA  in relation to his mental health. 
Royal London hasnt suggested that Mr C deliberately withheld information. Im satisfied that 
Mr Cs actions were careless rather than deliberate as I dont think that the evidence 
suggests that Mr C deliberately tried to hide his medical history. I think its more likely he 
didnt take reasonable care when answering the questions on the application form. 
As Mr C made a qualifying misrepresentation, Royal London is entitled to apply the relevant
remedy available to it under CIDRA. This says that, in cases of careless misrepresentation, if 
the insurer would still have entered into the contract, but on different terms, the insurer is 
entitled to amend the contract and apply those terms.
Royal London has provided evidence to show that they would have applied an exclusion to 
Mr Cs policy. This would have said: 
We will not pay a claim if it directly or indirectly because of any mental or nervous 
disorder, including but not limited to stress or anxiety-related disorders, its treatment 
or any complications arising from the disorder or its treatment.
I think its reasonable for Royal London to conclude that Mr C wouldnt have been able to 
claim for extreme stress (with associated trauma and exhaustion) as a result of that 
exclusion. As Ive outlined above if Mr C thinks theres further evidence which supports his 
physical inability to work hell need to provide this to Royal London first. 
Im satisfied that by offering Mr C the option to cancel, or continue with the policy with an 
exclusion, Royal London has acted in line with the remedy set out under CIDRA. I think 
thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman