DRN-3853611
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G have complained about the renewal price offered by Lloyds Bank General 
Insurance Limited (Lloyds) for their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G took out a policy with Lloyds. Each year when they were sent a renewal 
invite, they contacted Lloyds and were able to negotiate a lower premium. When their policy 
came up for renewal in 2022, Mr G and Mrs G phoned Lloyds and were told the premium 
couldnt be changed because of new regulations introduced by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) about how policies should be priced for new customers and those renewing 
policies.
Mr G and Mrs G complained. When Lloyds replied it said the FCA rules no longer allowed it 
to discount new business and that renewal prices needed to be equivalent to those offered 
to new customers. It said that Lloyds had taken the decision to remove discount offerings. It 
said prices were based on an assessment of risk and this assessment could vary by insurer 
and that policies often had different features. Lloyds said the renewal documents explained 
there might be some options at renewal and that other products might also be available.
So, Mr G and Mrs G complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said 
Lloyds has acted fairly when it priced the policy renewal.
As Mr G and Mrs G didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In January 2022, the FCA introduced new regulations to ensure consumers were quoted a 
renewal price that was no more than they would be quoted as a new customer through the 
same channel. Mr G and Mrs G have said they think Lloyds has unfairly applied this when 
they were sent their renewal. 
Ive looked at the renewal premiums Mr G and Mrs G were offered as each renewal, as well 
as the amount they paid in the years when they were able to negotiate a discount on the 
premium. All of the premiums were within target pricing, which is the maximum amount 
Lloyds would charge a customer based on a range of factors it took into account when 
calculating a premium, such as its assessment of risk. Lloyds has also confirmed to this 
service that, in line with the new FCA regulations, the most recent renewal premium that 
formed part of this complaint was not more than it would have quoted a new customer. So, 
Im satisfied that the premiums Lloyds charged were reasonable.
Im aware Mr G and Mrs G have said the premium increases were unreasonable. It is for an 
insurer to decide what premium it sets and it doesnt need to offer premiums that are the 
same or similar to other insurers. When Lloyds sent the renewal document, it explained 
about cover options, including that it might be possible to make changes to the policy cover, 
which might suit Mr G and Mrs Gs needs better. It also said that it might be possible to get a 
better price by shopping around. So, I think Lloyds explained there were options open to Mr 
G and Mrs G if the cover or premium offered didnt suit their needs. Im also aware that Mr G 
and Mrs G engaged with Lloyds each year to discuss their premium and whether it continued 
to meet their needs before deciding whether to renew the policy. So, thinking about all of the 
above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman