DRN-1716880
 
The complaint
Miss K complains Ageas Insurance Limited handled her key care insurance claim poorly. 
What happened
Miss K had a car she paid for with a hire purchase agreement. She was due to return it. She 
realised she had lost one of its keys. So she made a claim on her Ageas key care insurance 
policy. She says Ageas mislead her about how long it would take. The replacement key 
wasnt provided until after the date shed agreed to return the car. She says this caused her 
a financial loss. She wants Ageas to cover this and pay her compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. 
Ageas responded to Miss Ks complaint. It said it had told her, when she made the claim, 
that the quickest way for her to replace the key would be to go directly to the cars 
manufacturer - and claim the cost back. It said she had been told it couldnt guarantee any 
timescales as keys sometimes had to be ordered from overseas suppliers. It said it hadnt 
failed to meet the terms of the policy. It said it wouldnt be covering any costs charged for her 
returning the car with only one key. 
Our Investigator didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong. So he didnt recommend it do 
anything differently. Miss K didnt accept his assessment. So the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not making Ageas 
cover any loses or do anything differently.
Miss K says Ageas gave her incorrect information about how long it would take to replace 
the key. Her main point is that she says it told her it would be five to seven days in total  
when in it was actually five to seven working days.
Ive listened to calls between Ageas and Miss K. Ive also read transcripts of calls between 
her and one of its agents. It seems to me that Ageas was clear enough. It said it cant 
guarantee how long it will take. The transcript includes working in reference to the number 
of days. 
In any event, even if Ageas did provide incorrect timescales, I cant see that would have 
caused Miss K to lose out. It was about ten days from the claim being authorised to a key 
being provided. During the claim authorisation call Miss K told Ageas a dealership had said it 
would take it seven to ten days to replace the key. This was in response to Ageas having 
told her, that if she needed a key urgently, she could see if a dealership could provide one 
quicker.So regardless of what Ageas told Miss K, it seems she would have had to wait seven to ten 
days for a replacement key anyway. That means even if shed, based on different 
information from Ageas, chosen to use the dealership, she would have received a key 
around the same time. It would have been after the date she agreed to return the car and 
she would have experienced the same financial loss anyway. So I cant say Ageas was at 
fault. It seems it takes longer to provide a replacement key than the time that was available 
to her.   
Miss Ks policy doesnt provide any timescales for providing a new key. It says it cant 
guarantee one will be provided on the same day a claim is made. It explains some keys 
need to be ordered. Thats what happened in this case. I cant say that Ageas failed to meet 
the policy terms. Neither can I see that it caused any delays or took an unreasonable length 
of time to provide the key. 
Miss Ks unhappy that Ageas hasnt provided recordings of calls with its agent. She feels she 
wasnt told working days. She feels the transcript provided isnt accurate. I havent been 
provided with a call recording. But it wouldnt make a difference to the outcome of this 
complaint anyway. As Ive explained regardless of what she was told she would have 
experienced the same financial loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not making Ageas Insurance Limited do anything 
differently.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman