DRN-1596359
Complaint
Mr G says PDL Finance Limited trading at the time as Mr Lender irresponsibly lent to him.
Mr G is represented by Mrs G in this matter.                 
Background
This complaint is about one loan Mr G took with Mr Lender. A copy of Mr Gs borrowing 
history is set out in the table below:
 
Loan Date TakenDate 
RepaidTerm AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 14/02/2019 23/04/2019 4 £200.00 £102.80
 
Mr G told Mr Lender he couldn't afford to make the first monthly repayment, so I understand 
Mr Lender set up an affordable repayment plan, providing a discount of £24.42 to reduce the 
total amount due.
In its final response Mr Lender said it would not uphold Mr Gs complaint. It said it carried out 
proportionate checks which were sufficient for this loan.
Our adjudicator didn't think it was wrong for Mr Lender to provide Loan 1. Mrs G on Mr Gs 
behalf didn't accept this view. She said that if Mr Lender had requested a salary slip and a 
bank statement, Mr Lender would have been able to see very clearly Mr G did not have the 
means to repay this loan. She also said this complaint needed to be looked at in the light of 
nine other separate complaints with different lenders. As Mr G was able to access multiple 
borrowings this compounded his debt further when he had no means to repay the loans hed 
been given.
She asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman. So, the matter has come to me to 
make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr 
G could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint. Im sorry for all the financial difficulties 
Mr G has suffered but Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I realise Mr G will be 
disappointed with my decision but Ive explained why I have reached this decision.
As Ive explained, early in the relationship Mr Lender needed to carry out proportionate 
checks. When Mr G took out his first loan it was early in the relationship and I 
wouldn't necessarily have expected Mr Lender to undertake a full review of Mr Gs finances 
at this stage.  It might be different if for example Mr G had gone onto borrow more loans for  
a greater sum over a period of time. At some point it might have been incumbent on the 
business to carry out more in-depth checks which may have led it to verifying Mr Gs income 
and / or outgoings. But I dont think Mr Lender needed to do this here.
In this case, when thinking about what it knew about Mr G at the time as well as the monthly 
commitments he had and the loan amount Mr Lender provided, I think it carried out proportionate checks. From the checks it carried out and from the information Mr G gave to 
Mr Lender, I dont think there was anything to suggest this loan was unaffordable for Mr G or 
which might have alerted it to the fact he was having problems managing his money.
When Mr G applied for this loan, he told Mr Lender that his income was £1,500 and he 
declared his total expenditure as £1,135. This took into account amounts for his mortgage 
repayments, electricity, gas and water as well as food bills, council tax and an amount he 
gave for other short-term loans as well as other regular outgoings. He told Mr Lender the 
reason for taking out his loan was to repair his boiler. Mr G wasnt bankrupt, or in any other 
form of insolvency and had no County Court Judgments against him when Mr Lender gave 
him this loan.
As Ive said above, I think at the time Mr G took out his first loan Mr Lender carried out 
proportionate checks as it was required to do. There was nothing in the information it had 
obtained which might have alerted it the fact that Mr G was having problems managing his 
money. And I dont think there was anything in the information it received that meant it 
needed to verify the information Mr G had given.
As it happened, Mr G was unable to repay his first instalment. Mr Lender set up an 
affordable repayment plan and also applied a discount. Mr G subsequently repaid this debt 
in full. I think Mr Lender was treating Mr G fairly when it agreed this arrangement. 
I appreciate that Mrs G says this was only one loan in a number of loans which Mr G took 
out in a matter of weeks and Im sorry for the difficulties this led to. However, I am unable to 
look at them as one overall complaint as Mrs G suggests. I cant do that as each case is 
decided on its own facts and merits. Each different loan may involve a different business, 
amount lent, term of the loan and circumstances so what might be fair in one case does not 
necessarily follow in another. Each complaint must be made to the individual business 
involved and dealt with separately.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I hope the reasons Ive given explain why Im not upholding 
this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I dont uphold this complaint. 
PDL Finance Limited doesn't need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman