DRN-3343592
The complaint
Mr R held an account with HSBC UK Bank Plc.  He complains that when he transferred 
some funds to his overseas account, HSBC changed the funds to Canadian Dollars without 
his consent and this had a financial impact. 
  
What happened
In September 2021 Mr R transferred some funds from his HSBC UK GBP account to his 
overseas GBP account using online banking. 
He says that no drop down boxes to change the currency appeared and no warnings 
appeared on the screen during the transaction. However, HSBC exchanged the outgoing 
funds into Canadian Dollars, and they then had to be converted back into GBP when they 
were received by the overseas account. As a result of the two exchanges, Mr R lost 
£709.15. 
Mr R complained to HSBC straightaway. 
In their response, HSBC said that there would have been a number of confirmations that Mr 
R would have had to make online to process the payment, and so they are satisfied that he 
would have been made aware of the currency exchange. 
Mr R was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into it and she didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong.      
Mr R disagreed with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it 
has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not upheld the complaint and I will explain my reasons below. 
I have reviewed all information provided by both Mr R and the business. 
Mr R says that he has made this transaction three times previously and never encountered 
an issue. He says it isnt logical for the money to be exchanged when it is going from one 
GBP account to another, and he had set this account up specially to avoid this problem. Mr 
R says that he wouldnt have authorised a transfer if it stated that the currency was to be 
exchanged as he knew it was going to a GBP account. He thinks that there must have been 
some sort of glitch on the system but unfortunately, Mr R isnt able to provide any evidence 
to support this.   
HSBC have told us that when a customer  makes a transfer online to an account in another 
country, the currency will automatically revert to the currency of the beneficiary country, 
which in this case was Canada, and that a customer has to make a manual amendment to 
change it. They also say that Mr R will have been given the exchange rate as part of the 
process so he will have been aware of the exchange. They have provided us with 
screenshots of the online process that a customer has to go through to complete an 
international transfer.
The first screen asks the customer to select the country to which the transfer is being made, 
and below it there is a drop-down box which displays the default currency. In this case it 
would have been Canadian Dollars. The instruction on the age says Select the Country the 
payment is to be sent to and the currency the payment is to be sent in and then click 
continue . This would have been Mr Rs opportunity to change the currency - which he says 
was not offered. 
The second screen asks for the payee details.  
The third screen shows the details of the transaction including the amount in both GBP and 
in the box next to it, the currency youre sending. It also displays the exchange rate below 
that. A transaction code is then generated which has to be entered and confirmed by the 
customer. A review page then appears with all the details of the transfer including the 
exchange rate and the amount of funds in both currencies, and the customer needs to click 
continue to confirm it. 
In addition, before confirming the payment to be sent, the customer has to agree to the 
following:
"Please select 'Confirm' if you would like to accept the rate above and confirm your
payment instruction. Please be aware that once your payment has been confirmed it is
not possible for it to be recalled or cancelled. Also, if this payment cannot be made or is
returned by the foreign bank for any reason, the payment will be reversed. If there has
been movement in exchange rates which leads to a gain or a loss, this will be passed to
your account.
Having considered this, I dont think it is likely that the transfer could have been made 
without this process being completed. I accept that Mr R may not have noticed the boxes, or 
the exchange rates, but the evidence provided by HSBC suggests that without the screens 
being displayed as they were, and Mr R clicking the process through, the transfer wouldnt 
have happened. And Mr R hasnt been able to provide me with any evidence to suggest that 
this process didnt take place. 
I also note that HSBCs complaint notes say that when they checked the previous payments 
to the same overseas account the payments were sent in GBP, but they were in November 
2020 and the system had been updated since then So, its possible that Mr R was used to 
performing the transaction in one way and didnt notice that the online process had changed 
as he wasnt expecting it.  
I appreciate that Mr R must have found it incredibly frustrating that when making a transfer 
from one GBP account to another it seems obvious that the transfer should take place in 
GBP. However, the automated process has to accommodate all possible variations of an 
international transfer, which is why there are drop down options for the currency, as most 
transfers to another country will involve a currency exchange.    
In view of the above, I agree with the investigator that HSBC havent done anything wrong 
and I wont be asking them to refund Mr R.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about 
HSBC Bank Plc.   
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman