DRN-2642025
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc delayed in completing the transfer of his cash 
Individual Savings Account (ISA) from another provider into his stocks and shares ISA.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr L made a request to Santander to arrange the transfer the balance of his 
cash ISA with another provider, which Ill call N, into a stocks and shares ISA. The amount 
was just under £109,700. When the money hadnt reached his account within 30 days, Mr L 
complained. 
N said it had sent a cheque to Santander after receiving the request. But Santander didnt 
receive this until 15 June 2020, when N had already arranged to cancel the cheque and 
send the funds to Santander electronically. The money was eventually credited on 22 June 
2020.
 
Mr L complained and said that hed suffered a financial loss because of movements in the 
stock market during this time. He calculated this to be £6,318. He said that Santander had 
been unhelpful and encouraged him not to speak to it about his concerns. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said that he felt Santander had actioned Mr Ls request in a timely manner, as it had 
processed the transfer request within two working days of receiving it and had processed the 
funds received within three working days. 
Mr L didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. He 
said Santander hadnt accepted responsibility and hadnt met the required service level 
timings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that the delay in the transfer of his ISA funds will have been both worrying 
and frustrating for Mr L, particularly as he was reliant on the information he was being given 
by both Santander and N. N had told him it had sent his money to Santander and this was 
shown in his account balance. But then Santander was unable to let him know where his 
money was.
Ive considered the transfer of investment request letter that Santander sent to N on 21 May 
2020. This says: Transfer proceeds must be sent directly to our client money bank 
accountCheques will only be accepted when no other payment method is possible.
Santander has told us that it received Mr Ls transfer request on 19 May 2020, so I think that 
the letter was sent to N within a reasonable timeframe. And, although I appreciate that at 
that time it was likely that there were restrictions and delays in the postal systems because 
of the pandemic, it is clear this request was received and actioned by N, which then posted a 
cheque to Santander for the balance of Mr Ls funds.
 
From the information provided, I can see that this was actioned on 27 May 2020, and yet 
that cheque wasnt received by Santander until 15 June 2020. Unfortunately, by that time, a 
stop had been placed on the cheque. The funds were then sent electronically, and 
Santander received them on 19 June 2020. It has told us that it then credited these funds to 
Mr Ls account when it was confirmed that the previously processed cheque had been 
returned as unpaid.
I can see that Santander had procedures in place to chase the transfer if it hadnt been 
received. So, while I appreciate that Mr L feels that Santander was unhelpful when he called 
to try and find out what was happening, I dont think there was much more that it could have 
done as it was reliant on receiving the ISA funds from N. Having listened to the recordings of 
the conversations, I think Santander gave Mr L the information it had available to it and 
explained the possibility of postal delays and cheque processing times.
 
The government rules say that ISA transfers should take no longer than 15 working days 
between cash ISAs and 30 calendar days for other types of transfers. Mr Ls transfer was a 
cash ISA to a stocks and shares ISA. So although I appreciate that the timings of the 
transfer were a few calendar days longer, I dont think this was Santanders fault.
 
Overall, while I appreciate Mr Ls strength of feeling about the delay in him being able to 
make choices with his investments in the way he wanted, I dont think that Santander did 
anything wrong in the way it processed Mr Ls ISA transfer request.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman