DRN-3066949
The complaint
Mr C says OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
In July 2017 Mr C applied to Oakbrook for a loan. He borrowed £1,800 repayable by 24 
monthly instalments of £124.40. The APR was 69.94%. The loan was repaid in full in 
January 2021.
Mr C said if Oakbrook had carried out proper checks before providing the loan, it would have 
realised the loan was unaffordable for him. He said it didnt ask for proof of his financial 
situation such as payslips or bank statements.
Oakbrook said it had reviewed Mr Cs credit report with a credit reference agency. It said it 
had considered his income, credit history and monthly credit commitments at the time hed 
applied for the loan.
Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator didnt uphold it. She didnt think 
Oakbrook had lent irresponsibly. As Mr C disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Cs complaint. These two 
questions are:
1. Did Oakbrook complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C 
would be able to repay loan/s in a sustainable way?
If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr C wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did Oakbrook act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Oakbrook to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Cs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Oakbrook had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that business had to ensure 
that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr C undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Oakbrook to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr C. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Did Oakbrook complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would 
be able to repay loan/s without experiencing significant adverse consequences?
Oakbrook gathered some information from Mr C before it agreed the loan. It said that in line 
with its internal processes at the point of application, a standard credit assessment was 
conducted, which included a review of Mr Cs credit report with a credit reference agency. It 
also asked him for details of his income. Mr C said his gross salary was £21,424 and the 
purpose of the loan was to consolidate his debts. Mr C also said he lived at home with his 
parents.
Oakbrook has only been able to provide us with a high-level summary of the information it 
received from the credit check. Oakbrooks credit checks at the time suggested that Mr C 
had around £4,800 of outstanding debt and nine active accounts that all appeared to be 
well managed, with no signs of any money problems evident in his credit history such as 
late payments or county court judgments. It calculated that he would be spending around 
£231 a month repaying his debts and that he had disposable income of over £1,000 a 
month.
I think having a proper understanding of his likely income and expenditure was a crucial 
factor in a fair lending decision in these particular circumstances. But, so far as I can tell, 
Oakbrook didnt take any further steps to check Mr Cs monthly living costs as well.
So I dont think the checks Oakbrook did before agreeing the loan were proportionate.But although I dont think the checks Oakbrook did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
that isnt enough of a reason for me to uphold Mr Cs complaint. In order for Mr Cs complaint 
to succeed I also need to be able to say that proportionate checks would have shown that 
Mr C couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.
Mr C has provided copies of his bank statements from the time of the loan and I can see that 
in June 2017 he had a weekly salary income which over a year would have been slightly 
more than the amount hed told Oakbrook. His bank account was in credit. There was some 
gambling of around £100 to £150 a month. His main outgoings were to repay his credit 
commitments but hed already told Oakbrook the purpose of his loan was to consolidate 
these. 
It isnt unusual for applicants for this type of high cost loan to have a credit history showing 
other borrowing, overdraft use or even an impaired credit record  and these things 
wouldnt necessarily be reasons to prompt a responsible lender to decline a loan 
application.
Im very sorry that Mr C has been struggling financially. But, as things stand, I havent seen 
enough to make me think that had Oakbrook done a proportionate check it wouldve seen 
signs that Mr C was already facing serious financial difficulty. And given that Oakbrook 
gathered information that didnt show any obvious signs that Mr C was experiencing serious 
debt problems and the loan appeared to be affordable for him, I cant fairly uphold his 
complaint.
I havent seen anything to make me think that Oakbrook treated Mr C unfairly or 
unreasonably some other way. So Im not able to uphold Mr Cs irresponsible lending 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman