DRN-1993107
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) migrated him to a Tech and Travel 
Pack (TTP) without his agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions of our investigator for these reasons.
Mr M had previously been paying £15 a month for a very similar set of benefits to those of 
the TTP for a substantial time. So, I think its more likely than not that he had an interest in 
some of those benefits.
Barclays says it does not require a customer to clear an overdraft if switching to a fee free 
account, but it does remove the preferential overdraft facilities that come with TTP. And 
looking at the level of overdraft Mr M had and the money coming into his account at the time 
of the migration and after, I think its more likely than not that he chose to migrate his 
account rather than he did so because he was told he had to if he couldnt pay off his 
overdraft.
Ive looked at the two migration letters sent to Mr M. They are correctly addressed, and I 
think its more likely than not that he received at least one of them. And the letters do explain 
his options and tell him what he must do in response. So, in his case, I dont think Barclays 
failed to use an appropriate process to inform him of the change. 
Ive reviewed the recording and read Mr Ms notes of his recent complaint call with Barclays, 
including the references to his previous call with it in July 2017, but these doesnt change my 
view of the above.
So, although I know Mr M will be disappointed, I think its more likely than not that Barclays 
didnt do anything wrong when it migrated his account to a TTP.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman