DRN-1000492
 
The complaint
Miss T is unhappy with the way Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (trading as very) 
(Shop Direct) dealt with her direct debit and account. 
What happened
Miss T has an account with Shop Direct and had a direct debit set up to pay the minimum 
payment. She usually made a card payment in advance and so direct debit payments hadnt 
been taken out for a while. Miss T went on holiday and when she returned, she found that 
the direct debit hadnt been taken which resulted in a missed payment. 
Miss T was concerned about the negative marker on her credit file and the interest she had 
been charged. Miss T complained to Shop Direct that it hadnt set the direct debit up 
properly. She wasnt happy that Shop Direct had more than eight weeks to investigate her 
concerns. And ultimately, she didnt receive a response to her complaint  so she referred 
her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Shop Direct needed to do anything further as it had agreed to 
refund the interest and reset Miss Ts account. It also agreed to remove the negative entry 
from her credit file and paid her a total of £30 compensation for any stress and 
inconvenience caused to her as a result of the direct debit, and for the time taken to respond 
to her complaint. 
Although Miss T initially agreed to this as a resolution to her complaint, she was unhappy 
that Shop Direct hadnt confirmed it had removed the negative information from her credit file 
in writing. She wanted an ombudsman to consider the overall settlement.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Shop Direct needs to do anything further, largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by the investigator. 
Shop Direct confirmed that the direct debit had been set up correctly but as Miss T always 
paid ahead, a payment hadnt been taken for a number of months. As a result, it seemed 
that the bank stopped any payments until new direct debit instructions were sent. But Shop 
Direct werent aware that the direct debit was no longer in place. The payment was returned 
by the bank but Shop Direct wasnt given a reason. 
When Miss T complained, the advisors explained she would have to contact her bank to 
confirm the reason. Shop Direct told her that the reason the payment was returned was 
either because there were insufficient funds or because the bank had stopped the instruction. Shop Direct could see it was set up on its end but told Miss T she would have to 
get further information from her bank for a fuller explanation.  
As a result of the returned payment, Miss Ts account showed a missed payment and 
interest was charged. This also reflected on her credit file. Shop Direct investigated Miss Ts 
complaint and offered to remove the late payment marker and refunded the interest, which I 
think is fair. Miss T hadnt made an error but neither had Shop Direct. Ive seen a screenshot 
of Shop Directs direct debit instruction which shows it was in place and so Im satisfied it 
hadnt done anything wrong. And as Miss T was negatively affected, Shop Direct offered to 
resolve matters by resetting her account. Miss T says she didnt receive confirmation that 
Shop Direct had removed the late payment marker but it confirmed this was done on 13 
March 2018.  
Miss T also says she was unhappy with the length of time Shop Direct took to deal with her 
complaint. A business has up to eight weeks to send a final response letter after which a 
complaint can be referred to this service. Ive seen Shop Direct responded a few days 
outside of the eight weeks. And it offered Miss T compensation for the length of time taken to 
deal with her complaint  which I think is reasonable.
The final response letter is addressed correctly but Miss T didnt receive it. I appreciate it 
must have been frustrating for Miss T not to have received the final response letter straight 
away but Shop Direct cant be held responsible for any postal issues. 
Shop Direct has now put Miss T back in the position she would have been in had the 
payment not been returned. And so, I dont think Shop Direct needs to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman