DRN-3317145
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M say they received advice from a financial adviser in 2016. The adviser  
I will call him Mr B - was an agent of Abacus Associates Financial Services Limited 
which is now Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited. They say the adviser recommended Mr 
and Mrs M disinvest their investments held in Standard Life and reinvest in the same 
again to save on costs and fees. They gave Mr B a cheque to make the reinvestment 
but the money was paid into a bank account controlled by Mr B who stole the money. 
Mr and Mrs M hold Tavistock responsible for their losses and claim compensation from 
it.
What happened
Much of what follows is not in dispute and so Ive incorporated a lot of the 
background from the view issued previously by our investigator. Where there is 
a dispute about the facts, Ill make this clear.
Abacus and its agent:
Abacus Associates Financial Services (Abacus) has been a trading name of 
Tavistock since 4 January 2018 and Mr Bs activity in relation to Mr and Mrs M 
was carried out in that name. So, in this decision, references to both Abacus 
and Tavistock should be taken as referring to Tavistock.
Abacus has been directly authorised by the Financial Services Authority from 
2004 and the Financial Conduct Authority from 2013. According to Abacus 
Business and Compliance Plan and Training and Competence Plan from 2012, 
it had permission to carry on a number of regulated activities including advising 
on investments, arranging deals in investments and agreeing to carry on a 
regulated activity. And its aim was
to provide a quality service to both existing and new clients through its 
financial advisers.
Abacus had 37 financial advisers one of which was Mr B who joined Abacus in 
April 2012 and was registered with the regulator as a CF30 approved person of 
Abacus.
Mr B was a self-employed agent of Abacus/Tavistock until May 2018 when he 
resigned. This means Mr B worked under the terms of agency agreement with 
Abacus rather than as its employee. Mr B was authorised by Abacus to advise 
on investments on its behalf. He was also appointed a supervisor responsible 
for a team of advisers based in the North of England. In turn he was under the 
supervision of the director and owner of the business.
In December 2018 Mr B was convicted of 14 counts of fraud after a police investigation 
revealed he had stolen around £4.5 million. He is said to have used the money to fund 
a lavish lifestyle and gambling addiction.
Events in 2012
Mr and Mrs M say that in 2012 Mrs M was planning for retirement. She was informed by 
an adviser from the Teachers Assurance that there were to be changes in legislation 
surrounding financial advisers. The adviser said that he was retiring and recommended a 
colleague, Mr B, who was moving to Abacus Associates Financial Services Ltd. As this 
recommendation came from a respected employee of an organisation trusted by the 
teachers unions, Mr and Mrs M decided to take on Mr Bs services.
Mr and Mrs M say they received an Abacus business card from Mr B in 2012 
and met with Mr B on a number of occasions. They received a recommendation 
letter dated 21 November 2012. This confirmed that:
Abacus  Associates  Financial  Services  Limited  is authorised  to 
conduct  investment  business  under  the Financial  Services  & 
Markets  Act 2000  and is regulated  by Financial  Services  Authority.
It was also recorded in the recommendation letter of 21 November 2012 that they 
wanted to invest a lump sum of £50,000 for capital growth. Mr B recommended Mr and 
Mrs M each open an ISA in their individual names for £11,280 and a joint unit trust of 
£27,440 to fund future ISAs. Mr B recommended the Abacus Associates Private Client 
Account Wrap which was described as follows.
The Abacus Associates Private Client Account Wrap provided by 
Standard Life. [original emphasis]
The "Wrap"  is an internet-based  platform  providing  access  to various  
products  and tax wrappers  with one easily  accessible  portal.
Through  these  products  and tax wrappers  investors  can access  a full 
range  of UK retail  open-ended  investment  companies  and unit trusts.  
In its simplest  terms  it is a piece  of technology  allowing  investors  and 
their advisers  to use a streamlined  administration  system  with funds  
purchased  with charge  discounts.
The "wrap"  is owned  by Standard  Life and the software  is supplied  by 
First New Zealand  Capital.
Standard  Life is a leading  UK financial  services  company  providing  
pensions,  investments  and life assurance  products.  They  recently  
demutualised  and became  a FTSE  l 00 company  listed  in the 
London  Stock  Exchange.
Through  the wrap  service  a broad  array  of investment  options  are 
available  to meet  different  needs.  The range  of funds  is well over 
1,900  from over 50 different  providers.
Standard  Life through  its buying  power  has been  able to negotiate  
better  terms  and discounted  charges  for most  of the funds.  The funds  
through  the platform  are available  via their core fund list which  has the 
most  aggressive  discounts  and platform  funds  which  also have  excellent  terms.
The funds  outside  of these  two areas  are also available  via normal  
OEIC  and unit trust charges.
There  is no initial  charge  for funds  in the core or platform  lists and no 
necessity  to use Standard  Life funds.  The only initial  deduction  is for 
an initial  adviser  charge  payment  to Abacus  Associates  for arranging  
this investment.
The funds  available  in the platform  include  a number  of Manager  of 
Managers,  Fund  of Funds  and also model  portfolios  created  by Old 
Broad  Street  Research.  Depending  on an investors  risk profile  and 
objectives  we will be able to recommend  the correct  funds  or 
combination  of funds.
The platform  has competitive  charges  which  are determined  by the 
underlying  funds  used.  There  are also no switch  charges.  The 
charges  taken  by the fund management  groups  and Standard  Life 
for running  the wrap  include  discounts  and rebates  making  them  
competitive  compared  to directly  investing  and also further  rebates  
are available  through  the wrap  as funds  exceed  £100,000.
We believe the wrap platform provides clients with consolidated 
information relating to their range of fund holdings and product wrappers 
whilst also providing annual tax statements and online access to their 
platform at any time. Switches can be carried out within the platform 
between products and fund managers at no costs.
The wrap  provides  an excellent  opportunity  for investors  to have  a 
more  consolidated  portfolio  with instant  valuations  and the ability  to 
move  seamlessly  between  funds.  The costs  of the platform  are 
competitive  compared  to individual  products  and also include  
nosurrender  penalties.
Based  on our research  of other  wrap  providers  we found  the 
Standard  Life offering  to be very comprehensive  with competitive  
charges  and a workable  internet  based  platform .
Based on their individual attitudes to risk, Mr B recommended a Medium Minus Portfolio 
for Mrs M, the Medium Plus Portfolio for Mr M and the Medium Portfolio for the investment 
held in their joint names. For ease of reference I will refer to these collectively as the 
Abacus Medium Portfolios.
Mr and Mrs M opted for the Premier Service. This would ensure they would meet
Mr B at least once a year to review their investments and re-balance/re-structure their 
portfolios as required. It was also noted Abacus would be remunerated for their services 
via the ongoing adviser charging option which for the recommendation was 0.5% of the 
fund value (approximately £250 based on the initial investment of £50,000).
A client agreement document was signed and dated on 21 November 2012 by 
Mr and Mrs
M. I have set out some relevant paragraphs below:INVESTMENT  SERVICES
Abacus Associates Financial Services Limited is permitted to 
advise on and arrange (bring about) deals in investments.
We may contact you in the future by means of an unsolicited 
promotion (i.e. where you had not expressly requested it) should 
we wish to contact you to discuss the relative merits of an 
investment or service which we feel may be of
interest to you.
Abacus Associates Financial Services Limited does not handle 
clients' money. We never accept a cheque made payable to us 
or handle cash (unless it is payment in settlement of charges or 
disbursements for which we have sent you an invoice).
REGULATORY  STATUS
Abacus Associates Financial Services Limited, 104-106 
Widemarsh Street, Hereford. HR4 9HG is authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority. Our FSA Register 
number is 230342.
You can check this on the FSA's Register by visiting the FSA's 
website - www.fsa.qov.uk/register or by contacting the FSA on 
0845 606 1234
WHOSE  PRODUCTS  DO WE OFFER?
We offer products from the whole of market.
WHICH  SERVICE  WILL  WE PROVIDE  YOU  WITH?
We will advise and make a recommendation for you after we 
have assessed your needs..
ACCOUNTING  TO YOU
We will confirm to you in writing the basis or our reason for 
recommending the transaction executed on your behalf.
We will also make arrangements for all your investments to be 
registered in your name unless you first instruct us otherwise in 
writing. We will forward to you all documents showing ownership 
of your investments as soon as practicable after we receive them; 
where a number of documents relating to a series of transactions 
is involved, we will normally hold each document until the series 
is complete and then forward them to you.
INVESTMENT  OBJECTIVES  & RESTRICTIONS
Following the issue of this document, any subsequent advice or recommendation offered to you will be based on your stated 
investment objectives, acceptable level of risk and any restrictions 
you wish to place on the type of investments or policies you are 
willing to consider. Details of your stated investment objectives 
will be identified during our discussions with you and confirmed in 
the suitability report that we will issue to you to confirm our 
recommendation. Unless confirmed in writing, to the contrary, we 
will assume that you do not wish to place any restrictions on the 
advice we give you.
On 21 November 2012 Mr and Mrs M signed a form authorising Abacus to switch 
funds/rebalance or complete transactions on their behalf.
Events between 2013 to 2014
Mr and Mrs M met with Mr B on a number of further occasions. Some actions 
taken following recommendations made by Mr B included the following:
Moving their existing ISAs from other providers to the Standard Life 
Wrap and into the individual portfolios in their name.
Making monthly contributions of £1,000 from November 2014 for Mrs 
M and from December 2014 for Mr M (with his first payment being 
£2,000) into their individual ISAs within the Standard Life Wrap.
The above were all invested legitimately in the Abacus Medium Portfolios within 
the Standard Life wrap.
Events in 2015
Mr and Mrs M were advised by Mr B to open a Standard Life SIPP. An Initial Adviser 
Charge, Ongoing Services and Payment agreement was signed on 12 March 2015 
and the Basic Service was selected.
This was invested legitimately as per the recommendations.
Events in 2016
Mr and Mrs M say that in March/April 2016 Mr B told them that he had been looking at 
different ways to invest their money. He said that as Abacus was now a large company, 
they were looking to streamline and reduce charges by cutting out the middleman. As 
they had Abacus Portfolios in a Standard Life Wrap Mr B said they would incur less 
charges on any investments made.
Mr and Mrs M say that Mr B told them he would arrange for the proceeds from their 
existing investments in the Standard Life Wrap to be transferred to their bank account. 
Once this was completed, Mr B asked Mr M to call him so that he could arrange for their 
monies to be re- invested.
Mr and Mrs M say they were asked to write a cheque in favour of Abacus Associates. Mr 
and Mrs M say they werent financial astute and so they didnt understand the intricacies 
of how the streamlining worked. However, their understanding was that monies would be 
invested within a Standard Life wrap in Abacus Medium Portfolios as per before but with 
reduced costs because of the streamlining.Mr and Mrs M have provided a copy of their bank statements confirming that
£104,488 was received into their joint account between 14 June 2016 to 16 June 2016 
from the surrender of the investments within their Standard Life Wrap.
Mr and Mrs M have also provided bank statements which shows that a cheque for the sum 
of £104,488 was paid out of the account. They have also provided a copy of the cheque 
which confirms this was in favour of Abacus Associates. Tavistock has confirmed that their 
investigations show this sum was paid into Mr Bs bank account which he had been 
privately operating in the name of Abacus Associates.
In addition, Mr and Mrs M were making regular payments to their Standard Life 
investments. They say Mr B said that as part of the streamlining between Standard Life 
and Abacus the monthly payments would be paid to Abacus.
Mr and Mrs Ms bank statement shows that a monthly sum of £2,000 was paid to Abacus
Associates on 30 June 2016 and the last payment was made to Abacus Associates on 29 
August 2017.
Mr and Mrs M have confirmed to our service that they didnt receive any letters for the 
June 2016 transactions and that all the dealings were done at home. However, they have 
provided copies of their testimony to the police and details of their dealings with Mr B.
Mr B also sent a document entitled Your Wrap Information for Mrs Ms investments in 
2017. This purported to show that a sum of £65,652 was invested in a Personal ISA 
Portfolio. This was very similar to a valuation summary as at 15 March 2013 (when the 
monies were legitimately invested).
Events in 2017
Mr and Mrs M made two further payments to Mr B in 2017 of £15,000 (totalling £30,000) 
which they say they made following advice received from him.
Mr and Mrs M have provided a copy of a recommendation letter dated 21 March 2017. 
The recommendation letter explained that having reviewed their existing cash savings Mr 
and Mrs M wanted to move £15,000 to an account which paid a better rate of interest. 
With this in mind Mr B recommended that they invest the sum in the Abacus Associates 
Private Client Cash Account (the cash account).
The recommendation letter explained cash account was a platform providing access to 
various product and tax wrappers with one easily accessible portal. This allowed 
customers to have a multi fund portfolio managed by their advisor at a much lower cost 
than would be available if they invested directly with individual companies. However it was 
also possible to leave the money in a cash account which paid 3% per annum variable. It 
was noted that Abacus participated in the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) and the cash deposits were protected up to the value of £75,000.
Mr and Mrs M say they initially made a payment of £15,000 for investment within the cash 
account. They have provided a copy of their bank statement and cheque showing this 
payment of £15,000 via a cheque was paid out of their joint account on 20 March 2017. 
The cheque was made payable to Abacus Associates. They have also provided an 
Account Summary sent to them by Mr B which is headed Mr and Mrs M and showing 
that a sum of £15,000 was held in a Standard Life account. We now know this to be a forgery.
Mr and Mrs M say they made a further payment of £15,000 which was also to be invested 
in the cash account. They have provided a copy of their bank statement showing that a 
further cheque payment of £15,000 was made on 15 May 2017. They have provided a 
copy of the cheque which confirms it was written in favour of Abacus Associates.
Mr and Mrs M said they needed monies from home improvements and a sum of £5,000 
was returned to them by Mr B. They understood this to be from the investment held within 
the cash account. They received this payment in August 2017.
Also in 2017 Mr B helped set up a will for Mr and Mrs M and a cheque payment was made 
to Abacus Associates directly. I understand this was set up correctly and legitmately.
Complaint in 2018
In September 2018 Mr and Mrs M contacted Abacus at their Hereford Office to 
make an enquiry as to the whereabouts of Mr B. This is because he had started 
to not keep
appointments, had been postponing visits and not answering calls. The 
following day they were made aware that Mr B wasnt with Tavistock and about 
the fraud that had occurred.
Mr and Mrs M wrote a letter of complaint dated 10 September 2018. In brief 
they said that:
Mr B had been their financial advisor for nearly six years and had 
gained their trust during this period.
He advised them of various ways they could make the best use of 
monies available to them from a pension lump sum and ongoing 
savings. As a result they had invested a total of £165,000 in various 
investments.
They had made cheques payable to Abacus Associates which had 
without their knowledge been redirected to Mr Bs personal account.
They were led to believe that they were taking out products and 
services that were appropriate for their needs. However, they have 
now discovered all their funds were stolen.
They explained Mrs M had been diagnosed with Parkinsons disease 
in 2015 and this matter had caused significant trouble and upset.
They held Tavistock responsible for their losses.
Tavistock didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. On 21 February 2019, they 
provided their final response to the complaint. In summary, it said:
Their records showed since 21 November 2012 Mr and Mrs M had 
been clients of Abacus and subsequently Tavistock.
There was no regulated activity- what had happened was fraud/theft 
and not a legitimate investment and Mr and Mrs M had been 
persuaded to hand over cheques to Mr B. Abacus and Mr B werent 
permitted to handle client money. Misappropriation of money is not a regulated activity. The complaint doesnt relate to an activity regulated 
by the FCA.
Mr B didnt have Abacus actual authority- he wasnt authorised to 
misappropriate clients money and Abacus had no knowledge of 
what he was doing.
There wasnt ostensible authority- Mr and Mr M didnt rely on Mr B 
acting on behalf of Abacus and it wasnt reasonable for them to think 
so. The advice to streamline investments in 2016 should have been 
perceived as lacking in credibility. 
Tavistock referred to the client agreement dated 21 November 2012 
which stated that: Abacus Associates Financial Services Limited 
does not handle clients money. We never accept a cheque made 
payable to us or handle cash (unless it is payment in settlement of 
adviser charges or disbursements for which we have sent you an 
invoice). As a recent Court case had shown, this meant that Mr and 
Mrs M should have known that writing cheques to Abacus could not 
be right.
They did not receive any documentation and in-depth advice as they 
had done for legitimate investments made before 2016. 
The letter they received from Mr B in 2017 relating to the cash 
account listed the FSA  - not the FCA. This discrepancy ought to 
raised suspiciouns. 
There isnt vicarious liability- the fraud that took place was not an 
integral part of Abacus business and Abacus had no knowledge of 
it.
Their systems and controls were adequate- no reasonable system 
of monitoring would have resulted in the fraud being discovered.
Mr and Mrs M responded to the final response letter. In brief they said that
They were inexperienced clients who sought out a financial adviser to 
help with their financial planning for their retirement.
They hadnt complained about Mr Bs action. Their complaint was the 
duty owed by Tavistock to them.
They werent persuaded to pay Mr B nearly £159,000. The 
cheques were made payable to Abacus Associates and not to Mr B 
direct. They werent aware he had opened a personal bank account 
in the name of Abacus Associates.
The investigators opinion
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He thought we could 
consider the complaint. His findings were that:
The matter of the investment of £104,488 in 2016 and ongoing 
monthly contributions was separate to the two £15,000 
investments in the cash account in 2017. They were separate acts. 
He dealt with the 2016 investment in this complaint reference and 
the 2017 investments under a separate reference.Mr and Mrs Ms complaint was about the failure of Mr B (and 
consequently Tavistock) to provide professional investment services.
Mr B advised Mr and Mrs M to invest in the Abacus Medium 
Portfolio in the Standard Life wrap. These portfolios were genuine 
products available on the open market and which were specified 
investments in The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (RAO).
Therefore Mr B undertook a regulated activity under Article 53 of 
the RAO. This is notwithstanding that Mr B misappropriated the 
monies paid by Mr and Mrs M for the investment. Mr Bs fraud was 
carried out in connection with that regulated advice.
Mr B had signed a representative agreement with Tavistock. 
Under that agreement Tavistock appointed Mr B as its 
representative. He was given authority to give investment advice. 
But Mr B had not acted in Tavistocks best interests when 
misappropriating money and it couldnt therefore be said that hed 
acted with Tavistocks actual authority.
However, Abacus had represented that Mr B had its authority to 
give investment advice about the Abacus Medium Portfolio. Mr and 
Mrs M had reasonably relied this representation. So Mr B had 
apparent authority/ostensible authority to give the advice he gave. 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is therefore about business for which 
Tavistock had accepted responsibility.
Abacus also accepted responsibility for the acts being complained 
about on the basis of vicarious liability. That was because there was 
a sufficient relationship between Mr B and Abacus and the act being 
complained about was within the field of activities assigned to Mr B 
and it had a sufficiently close connection with those activities.
Furthermore, when Mr B advised Mr and Mrs M to invest and failed 
to arrange the investment, he was acting in his capacity as Abacus 
approved person for the purpose of carrying on Abacus regulated 
business. Mr and Mrs M was Abacus client for the purposes of 
the clients best interests rule in COBS. If Mr B failed to act 
honestly and failed to arrange the recommended investment then 
(subject to the recognised defences) Abacus is responsible in 
damages to Mr and Mrs M under the statutory cause of action 
provided by section 138D(2) of FSMA. So the investigator said that 
138D(2) of FSMA provides an alternative route by which Abacus is 
responsible for the acts complained of.
It is not in dispute that Mr B defrauded Mr and Mrs M of their 
money. It is fair and reasonable Tavistock should compensate 
Mr and Mrs M for their loss.Tavistock should therefore pay compensation to Mr and Mrs M 
for the £104,488 investment in 2016 and ongoing monthly 
contributions.
Tavistock disagrees with the investigator:
Tavistock did not agree with the investigator and lawyers responded on its behalf. 
They argued that the investigator had introduced or been influenced by the test of 
fairness and reasonableness into jurisdiction (where it has no part to play) by dealing 
with both jurisdiction and merits (where the test does apply) in one single assessment 
letter. The ombudsman service should resolve the issue of jurisdiction first and 
separately before it can consider merits. Tavistock would only comment on jurisdiction 
at this stage.
They made a number of points as summarised below:
No regulated activity
The Financial Ombudsman Service does not have jurisdiction to 
consider this complaint, because the activity complained of was not 
a regulated activity or ancillary to a regulated activity. Mr and Mrs M 
provided Mr B with the cheque for £104,000 in 2016. However, there 
was no documentary evidence of any advice at that time.
In any event, in practice, Mr B did not provide investment advice. 
He persuaded his victims to pay money into his own personal bank 
account  he misappropriated their money. The definition of a 
regulated activity requires both a specified activity and a specified 
investment. The fraud carried out by Mr B was not in relation to a 
specified investment. The list of specified investments includes only 
real investments not purported investments. Fraud, however it is 
dressed up, is outside the regulatory framework and outside the 
ombudsman services jurisdiction. It cannot be correct that 
whenever a fraudster mentions a legitimate investment product to 
persuade a victim to hand over money that it falls within the 
ombudsman services jurisdiction.
The investigator had said that there was a disinvestment of a 
legitimate investment and the purported reinvestment by Mr B was 
part of a single stream of advice. That was not correct and this 
case was not analogous to the case of Tenetconnect Services Ltd 
v Financial Ombudsman and another [2018] EWHC 459. This case 
did not involve regulated advice about a legitimate Standard Life 
product that can be linked to Mr Bs fraudulent scheme. And there 
was no evidence of disinvestment or reinvestment advice.
Apparent authority
Tavistocks lawyers agreed with the investigator that there was no actual 
authority, but they argued that there was no apparent authority either.
For apparent authority there must be a representation by the 
principal to the third party that the agent had authority which the 
third party relied upon to their detriment. In this case those requirements would need to be met before Mr and Mrs M handed 
over the cheque to Mr B.
Mr and Mrs M had received significant documentation on the 
occasions in 2012 and 2015 when they had received legitimate 
advice from Mr B about their Standard Life investments and 
pensions. No documentation was provided to them for the 2016 
investment.
Mr and Mrs M made payments to Standard Life for those direct 
investments. This is in contrast to paying money directly into Mr Bs 
bank account in relation to the fraud (albeit the account was 
privately operated by Mr B in the name of Abacus Associates).
Tavistock reiterated that Mr and Mrs M had signed a client 
agreement in 2012 that said that Abacus did not handle client 
money. In the recent case of Anderson v Sense Network Limited 
[2019] EWCA Civ 1395 (Sense), the first instance judge held that, 
for Claimants who had purchased legitimate investments via the 
Appointed Representative Midas and who had signed Midas terms 
of business (which included a warning about Midas not being 
authorised to handle client money), in respect of their payments into 
Midas fraudulent scheme, they:
were therefore aware of or signed documentation which 
expressly provided that [Midas] could not handle client 
money or accept cheques made out to [Midas]. In my view, 
this is in itself fatal to any case of ostensible authority.
So, the terms of the client agreement that Mr and Mrs M signed in 
this case was fatal to their complaint on apparent authority.
So it was impossible in these circumstances for apparent 
authority to apply. There were no representations and no reliance 
by Mr and Mrs M.
Vicarious liability
Tavistocks lawyers also said that vicarious liability could not apply either:
Frederick v Positive Solutions [2018] EWCA Civ 431 is the most 
recent and highest authority on vicarious liability in a financial 
advisory context  rather than general context. The Court of Appeal 
left open the proposition that cases of fraud by commercial agents 
are governed by a different set of rules, a proposition which gains 
support from Winter v Hockley Mint [2019] 1 WLR 1617.
In Frederick, the Court of Appeal specifically considered an argument of 
vicarious liability and found that  despite (a) the agent used the principals online portal to transact the unauthorised business; (b) the latter business was 
substantively connected to the authorised business (proceeds of re-mortgage); 
and (c) the two were temporally proximate  the principal firm was not 
vicariously liable for the acts and omissions of the adviser. The Court of Appeal 
deemed that the fraudulent agent was engaged in recognisably independent 
business and that it would be a complete distortion of the true position of the 
facts to describe that activity in any sense as an integral part of the 
principals business activities.
Applying the ratio of the Court of Appeal in Frederick to this case, Mr B 
persuaded Mr and Mrs M to pay money into a bank account that he controlled. 
This was entirely separate from and unknown to Tavistock and could not have 
been known to Tavistock. It was a separate account opened and used for 
separate purposes. In no way could it be said that Mr Bs fraud was an integral 
part of Tavistocks business.
The application by the investigator of the general test for vicarious liability to a 
financial advisory context is a clear attempt to extend the current law. There is 
no evidence that the Courts have any inclination to take the law of vicarious 
liability in this direction in a financial advisory context, despite the Court of 
Appeal having had the opportunity to do so.
Section 138D FSMA
Tavistocks lawyers also said that the investigators arguments regarding section 138D 
FSMA were unfounded:
Section 138D FSMA does not create a cause of action in its own right. It is 
subject to defences as it provides that:
A contravention by an authorised person of a rule made by the FCA is 
actionable at the suit of a private person who suffers loss as a result of the 
contravention subject to the defences and other incidents applying to 
actions for breach of statutory duty.
Such defences include the defence that a principal is not responsible for the 
acts and/or omissions of the agent who committed the breach. Furthermore, 
in Sense, the High Court makes clear that the claimants who satisfied the 
definition of private persons had a potential cause of action under section 
138D for breach of the COBS rules, but this was obviously subject to a 
defence that the Appointed Representative was not acting with the principal 
firms authority and, on the facts, the judge (approved by the Court of Appeal) 
found the authority defence to be effective.
Other objections
Tavistocks lawyers also objected to the splitting of the complaint. They argued 
that this case involves one fraud perpetrated by one adviser on various 
occasions. It was a single fraudulent scheme: Mr B persuaded his victims to pay 
monies into his own personal bank account. He misappropriated their monies, on 
a number of occasions, using the same technique and/or device. The decision to 
split Mr and Mrs Ms complaint into two is entirely arbitrary, and the Service has 
provided no reasons for it.Separate complaints?
I have written to the parties to make them aware that I am of the view that it is 
right to treat the events relating to the 2016 investment of £104,488 and regular 
contributions as separate to the investments of £15,000 (twice) in 2017.
To reiterate to the parties, the definition of "complaint" is set out in the FCA 
Handbook. That says a complaint is:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, 
from, or on behalf of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, 
a financial service or a redress determination, which:
(a) alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, 
material distress or material inconvenience; and
(b) relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other respondent with 
whom that respondent has some connection in marketing or providing 
financial services or products, which comes under the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service."
Cases can be split where we believe that the matter brought to us involves 
more than one activity of a respondent.
Here, the activity being complained of relates to events in 2016 when Mr and 
Mrs M say they were advised to disinvest their investments held in the Abacus 
Medium Portfolio within the Standard Life Wrap and reinvest the same and 
continue to make regular monthly contributions in order to streamline costs and 
charges.
This is clearly different to the acts that took place in 2017 when Mr and Mrs M 
say they were advised to invest separate sums of money in an Abacus Cash 
Account in the Standard Life Wrap.
So it is right that we deal with each activity separately and this decision relates 
only to the investment in 2016 of £104,488 and the ongoing contributions Mr 
and Mrs M made for that investment.
My findings  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments in order to decide whether the 
Financial Ombudsman Service can consider Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
The basis for deciding jurisdiction:
I must decide whether we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint by 
applying our jurisdiction rules (referred to as the DISP rules).
It follows that I cannot decide the issue of jurisdiction on the basis of what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That is the basis on 
which the merits of complaint will be determined if, but only if, having applied 
the DISP rules we have jurisdiction to consider it.
I would add that if there are any disputed issues of fact that I need to resolve to 
help me decide either jurisdiction or the merits, it falls to me to decide them according to the balance of probabilities.
The compulsory jurisdiction
The Financial Ombudsman Service can consider a complaint under its 
compulsory jurisdiction if that complaint relates to an act or omission by a firm 
in the carrying on of one or more listed activities, including regulated activities 
(DISP2.3.1R). The compulsory jurisdiction also extends to complaints that 
relate to a firms acts or omissions in carrying on ancillary activities, including 
advice, carried on by the firm in connection with regulated activities.
Abacus is a firm under our rules, and it does not dispute that. Regulated 
activities are defined by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 
(Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO) as discussed below.
As DISP 2.3.3G explains, complaints about acts or omissions include those in 
respect of activities for which the firm  is responsible (including business of 
any appointed representative or agent for which the firm  has accepted 
responsibility).
So there are two questions to be determined before I can decide whether this 
complaint can be considered under the compulsory jurisdiction of this service:
1. Were the acts about which Mr and Mrs M complains done in the 
carrying on of a regulated activity, or an ancillary activity?
2. Was the principal firm, Abacus, responsible for those acts?
Before I do that, I will set out some further relevant background matters.
The regulatory background:
I have taken into account the FSMA, the RAO, and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook section of the FCA Handbook (COBS).
Regulated activities
An activity is a regulated activity if it is an activity of a specified kind that is carried 
on by way of business and relates to an investment of a specified kind, unless 
otherwise specified (section 22, FSMA).
Regulated activities are specified in Part II of the RAO and include:
advising on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment 
which is a security or a relevant investment (article 53 RAO),
making arrangements for another person to buy or sell or 
subscribe for a security or relevant investment (article 25 RAO), 
and
agreeing to carry on either of those activities (article 64 RAO).
The general prohibitionSection 19 of FSMA says that a person may not carry on a regulated activity in 
the UK, or purport to do so, unless they are either an authorised person or an 
exempt person. This is known as the general prohibition.
At the time of the events complained about, Abacus an authorised person (also 
referred to as a firm in regulators rules). That means it could carry out 
regulated activities without being in breach of the general prohibition.
Mr B was neither an authorised person nor exempt from authorisation. That 
means if Mr B had carried out a regulated activity on his own behalf by way of 
business, he would have been in breach of the general prohibition.
The approved persons regime
The approved persons regime is set out in Part V of FSMA. Its aim is to protect 
consumers by ensuring that only fit and proper individuals may lawfully carry out 
certain functions within the financial services industry.
At the relevant time, section 59(1) of FSMA said:
(1) An authorised person (A) must take reasonable care to ensure that 
no person performs a controlled function under an arrangement entered 
into by A in relation to the carrying on by A of a regulated activity, unless 
the Authority approves the performance by that person of the controlled 
function to which the arrangement relates.
Abacus was an authorised person. The act of advising on investments was a 
controlled function.
Abacus arranged for Mr B to be approved by the FSA (later FCA) to perform the 
controlled function CF30 Customer from 17 April 2012 to 18 May 2018. CF30 
was defined in terms that included advising on investments  and performing 
other functions related to this such as dealing and arranging: see SUP 
10A.10.7R.
The approved persons regime does not depend on an individuals 
employment status. Employees can be approved persons, as can non-
employees like Mr B.
Breach of statutory duty
The FCA can make general rules which apply to authorised persons with 
respect to the regulated and other activities they carry on: Section 137A of 
FSMA.
Section 138D(2) of FSMA said:
A contravention by an authorised person of a rule made by the FCA is 
actionable at the suit of a private person who suffers loss as a result of 
the contravention, subject to the defences and other incidents applying to 
actions for breach of statutory duty.
Rights of action under section 138D(2) of FSMA were only available in 
relation to contravention of specific rules made by the FSA under FSMA.
One such rule in place at the time of the events Mr and Mrs M complains about 
was COBS 2.1.1(1)R, which said:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
If Mr and Mrs M suffered a loss as a result of an actionable rule such as this being 
breached by Abacus, they would have a right of action against Abacus/Tavistock 
for breach of statutory duty as private person. But they would have no such right 
against Mr B because he was not himself a firm or an authorised person. His 
status as Abacus CF 30 advisor only allowed him to perform particular functions 
(including advising on investments and arranging
deals) in relation to regulated activities that Abacus carried on and for which 
Abacus was answerable under the FCA rules.
What is the complaint?
According to the FCAs Handbook definition a complaint is any oral or written 
expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, about the provision or 
failure to provide a financial service which alleges that the complainant has 
suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or material inconvenience 
and relates to an activity of the firm which comes under the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
In Full Circle Asset Management v Financial Ombudsman Service [2017] 
EWHC 323 (Admin) Nicol J said:
1. It was, in my view, a necessary part of [the ombudsmans] function to 
determine the nature of [the consumers] complaint. After all, as the Court 
of Appeal said in R (Heather Moor and Edgecomb Ltd) v Financial 
Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642 at [80] the Ombudsman 'is 
dealing with complaints, and not legal causes of action' and, as Irwin J. 
said in R (Keith Williams) v Financial Ombudsman
Service [2008] EWHC 2142 (Admin) at [26] 'His jurisdiction is 
inquisitorial not adversarial.'
54. the Ombudsman was not confined to what appeared in this box on 
the [complaint] form in deciding the nature of [the consumers] complaint. 
He was entitled, as he did, to look more widely at the correspondence 
which she and her adviser had written to the Claimant and to him.
Mr and Mrs M wrote a detailed letter of complaint to Tavistock in September 
2018. Relevant extracts of that letter are:
No one [at Abacus] contacted us even when his misconduct had become 
apparent.
We believe that the company should have been aware of what he was doing.
We believe that Abacus Associates/ Tavistock Partners (UK) Ltd 
have a duty of care to clients to ensure your advisers are acting 
within the law and in the best interests of the clients.We are of the opinion that Tavistock Partners (UK) Ltd. have failed 
in delivering the above values statement [a reference to 
Tavistocks website].
[Mr B] has been able to set up a private bank account called 
Abacus Associates resulting in the loss for us of a large amount 
of money, in fact our life savings. The immediate and future 
impact of this is devastating
We suggest that your company has failed to adequately monitor 
and regulate this individual adviser and we believe that Tavistock 
Partners (UK) Ltd. should bear responsibility for this.
We request that Tavistock Partners (UK) Ltd offer compensation to 
the value of what we have invested (approx.£165,000) which would 
have stayed in our accounts had the adviser working for your 
company acted honestly and if Tavistock Partners (UK) Ltd. had 
demonstrated due diligence and duty of care in rigorously monitoring 
the activities of this particular adviser.
In response to Tavistocks final response letter Mr and Mrs M said that:
Quote [Tavistock say] Your complaint is that [Mr B] persuaded you to 
pay £159,000 to him . This is categorically not our complaint.
We have not complained about [Mr Bs] actions. Nothing would be 
achieved by this.  Persuaded is the wrong word and we did not pay him 
£159,000. Persuaded is a word that they have used on a number of 
occasions.
More accurate wording would be advised or suggested. Any cheques that 
we signed were made to Abacus Associates not to [Mr B].
Our complaint is, despite claims on their website regarding the 
supervision of advisers, Abacus/ Tavistock have been remiss in their 
duties with regard to the monitoring and appraisal of their advisers and 
therefore should bear responsibility for his actions.
In my view Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is that they consulted Mr B in order to get 
bona fide investment services from an authorised investment adviser. Their 
complaint is that Abacus is responsible for its adviser failing to provide the 
professional investment advice service and acting in their interests when he 
instead paid the money into the account he controlled and stole their money.
Were the acts Mr and Mrs M complains about done in the carrying on of a 
regulated activity?
At the time of these events Abacus carried on the regulated activities of 
advising on investments, arranging deals in investments and agreeing to 
advise and arrange deals. Mr and Mrs Ms complaint relates to these 
activities.
Abacus position is that the reality is Mr B was not advising on any kind of 
investment as no investment existed. There was never any investment so there 
was no investment advice. Mr B was simply, and only, stealing Mr and Mrs Ms money. It in effect says I should consider the reality not the fiction created by Mr 
B.
Tavistock says fraud is outside the regulatory framework and cannot be 
brought in just by the mention by the fraudster of a regulated investment.
However, and for the same reasons explained by the investigator, I dont 
agree with Tavistocks analysis.
The regulated activity of advising on investment is defined in Article 53 RAO as follows:
Advising a person is a specified kind of activity if the advice is
(a) given to the person in his capacity as an investor or potential investor, 
 and
(b) advice on the merits of his doing any of the following 
(whether as principal or agent)
(i) buying, selling, subscribing for or underwriting a particular 
investment which is a security, or
(ii) exercising any right conferred by such an investment to 
buy, sell, subscribe for or underwrite such an investment.
Security means any investment of the kind specified by any of articles 76 to 82. 
(I will return to this point below.)
Therefore if an adviser advises a client to invest in a specified investment there 
is regulated investment advice even if the adviser intercepts the payment and 
steals the money. This is
because although buying an investment naturally follows investment advice 
the actual purchase is not part of the definition of the regulated activity of 
advising on investments.
The subsequent arranging of the deal is a separate regulated activity under Article 
25 RAO  even if the two activities normally run one into the other without much 
thought being given to that process. Also as I have mentioned agreeing to advise 
on investments and agreeing to arrange deals in investments is a regulated 
activity under Article 64 RAO.
To satisfy the definition of the activity under Art 53 there must be advice  not 
just, say, the provision of information. And the advice must
be to a person in their capacity as an investor or potential investor
relate to an investment that is security or relevant investment
relate to the merits of buying, selling etc the investment
relate to a particular investment
There isnt a great deal of evidence relating to events in 2016 when the £104,488 
was  invested or the subsequent monthly contributions that Mr and Mrs M made. I 
do however have Mr and Mrs Ms version of events in which they say they were 
advised by Mr B that undertaking these transactions would result in lower costs 
and streamlined services, the statement from Standard Life showing the money disinvested, the cheque that they paid to Abacus Associates and the investment 
statement that was provided to Mrs M in 2017.
Based on the evidence that is available to me it is my finding that Mr B did likely 
advise Mr and Mrs M to disinvest £104,488 from the Abacus Medium portfolio 
with Standard Life in order to re-invest it into the same portfolio and continue to 
make regular contributions to the investment. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs Ms account has been credible and consistent. There is 
no indication that they have been untruthful or unreliable at any 
point.
I cant see how or why Mr and Mrs M would have disinvested their 
funds from the Standard Life wrap and wrote the cheque to Abacus 
Associates if they had not been advised that this was an 
appropriate and suitable course of action for them by an adviser 
they trusted  i.e. Mr B.
Mr and Mrs M had agreed to meet with Mr B at least annually when 
they first took advice from Mr B in 2012. I think the acts here were 
likely to have been part of those regular meetings to discuss their 
investments and strategy.
We know from other complaints that Mr B advised many people to 
invest in Abacus Portfolios in a Standard Life wrap and asked for 
the cheques for the investments to be made payable to Abacus 
Associates and then stole the money. So, what has happened 
here is consistent with what we know to be Mr Bs modus operandi 
in operating his fraud.
The statement sent to Mrs M in 2017 was a forgery but appears to 
be an attempt by Mr B to give a veneer of credibility to advice hed 
previously provided and to cover his tracks. The statement shows 
£65,652 in Mrs Ms wrap invested in a personal portfolio with a list of 
assets. I think this portfolio was purporting to be the Abacus Medium
Portfolio that shed been invested in previously. This was clearly a 
document that post-dated the investment of £104,488. But it is, in 
my view, evidence of what Mr and Mrs M was likely to have been 
advised in 2016 about how their funds would be used and also is 
relevant to the ongoing monthly contributions that Mr and Mrs M 
were making.
So there was advice  but was this in connection with a security or relevant investment?
Mr and Mrs M and Mr B were discussing  and Mr B was recommending - a 
disinvestment proposed re-investment in the same portfolio  a portfolio that was 
actually offered by Abacus. The Standard Life Wrap and the Abacus Medium 
Portfolio were not inventions of Mr B on a one-off basis to facilitate his fraud. The 
Abacus Associates Private Client Account was a private label of the Standard 
Life platform and I understand the Medium Portfolio was an actual portfolio used 
by Standard Life and Abacus at the time. Tavistocks advisers were and are 
authorised to recommend it to investors.The Standard Life Wrap is an arrangement through which investments may be 
made into various funds. The funds are, as I understand it, collective investments. 
While I have not analysed their precise legal status, I anticipate they are likely to 
be either unit trusts or open- ended investment companies and therefore 
collective investment schemes under Article 81 RAO. Such investments come 
within the definition of the term security for the purposes of Article 53.
In this case, Mr B advised Mr and Mrs M to disinvest their funds and reinvest in 
the medium portfolios in Abacus Associates Private Client Account. So it is my 
view that there was advice on the merits of selling and buying the collection of 
collective investments schemes that made up the Abacus Medium Portfolio at 
the time notwithstanding the point that the funds may not have been identified or 
discussed individually.
Tavistocks position is that it was not investment advice because the substance of what
Mr B did that must be reviewed: he never gave investment advice and never 
intended to do so. He only intended to persuade Mr and Mrs M to pay money 
into his personal bank account and that this was therefore a purported - and not 
real investment.
I dont agree with this analysis. First, Mr B did give Mr and Mrs M advice to 
disinvest from their existing holdings. That in itself is a regulated activity. And it 
is intrinsically linked to the reinvestment advice that Mr B gave about the use of 
those funds.
Further, when viewed from Mr and Mrs Ms position, or from the position of an 
objective observer, they were clearly advised to disinvest their existing investment 
and reinvest the money to the same platform to make investments.  And when 
looked at objectively or from Mr Bs viewpoint, he advised them to do so  it was 
an essential part of his fraud. This is not a case where, say, the adviser 
persuades the investor to lend money to the adviser personally or join in a joint 
investment project with the adviser personally. And its not a case where  as with 
some of the other money they later transferred to Mr B  they thought it was going 
to sit in cash. They always thought they were disinvesting reinvesting in the 
Abacus Medium Portfolio to be held in a Standard Life wrap.
I do not agree that Mr Bs fraudulent intention not to arrange the recommended 
investment means that he did not advise Mr and Mrs M to disinvest their 
investment or that no reinvestment was in fact recommended.
So it is my view Mr B recommended the disinvestment and reinvestment. It is 
also my view that he then agreed to arrange that investment by words or 
conduct as part of the process.
That is how he persuaded Mr and Mrs M to make the recommended 
investment and give him a cheque in payment for the investment.
Therefore, my conclusion is that this complaint does relate to the regulated 
activity of advising on investments, and or/ of arranging deals in investments 
and/or of agreeing to do one or other or both of those activities.
Also, although I think the complaint relates squarely to those regulated activities, if 
it could be said that any part of Mr Bs conduct didnt fall within those activities, the 
conduct was in my view at least ancillary to one or more of them. For example, 
the steps Mr B took to cover his tracks, by suggesting to Mr and Mrs M in the 2017 statement (we only have the statement for Mrs M) that their money had 
been profitably invested by Abacus seem to me to be at least ancillary to the 
regulated activities I have identified.
Was Tavistock responsible for the acts Mr and Mrs M complains about?
Agency is a relationship between two parties where they agree that one will act 
on behalf of the other so as to affect its relations with third parties. The one on 
whose behalf acts are to be done is called the principal. The one who is to act is 
called the agent. In other words, the principal authorises the agent to act on its 
behalf.
The creation of that authority can take a number of forms. And it is usual for the 
authority to be limited in nature. The law recognises different forms of agency.
In this case there is a written agency agreement which gives express actual 
authority to Mr B.
It isnt in dispute that Mr B did not have Abacus actual authority to carry out the 
acts here. He did not act in accordance with the agency agreement. He was 
authorised to give investment advice to clients such as Mr and Mrs M on behalf of 
Tavistock, including recommending disinvesting and investing in the Standard 
Life wrap and the Abacus Medium Portfolio. He was also authorised to arrange 
such investments. However, he was not authorised to commit the fraud. He had 
no authority to hold clients money. He failed to follow its usual processes and 
procedures in relation to Mr and Mrs M and Tavistock received no payments or 
commissions etc.
There is also a general point that an agent (Mr B) is required to try to act in the 
principals (Abacus) best interests. Here, all Mr Bs conduct was motivated by 
his intention of stealing Mr and Mrs Ms money and preventing him from 
discovering the theft. And stealing money from Tavistocks client that was 
supposed to be invested through Tavistock was clearly not trying to act in 
Tavistocks best interest.
I therefore accept that Mr B was not acting with Tavistocks actual authority in 
relation to the matters about which Mr and Mrs M complains.
Apparent (or ostensible) authority
However, that is not the end of the matter. In an agency relationship, a principal 
may limit the actual authority of his agent. But if the agent acts outside that actual 
authority, a principal may still be liable to third parties for the agents acts if those 
acts were within the agents apparent authority. This is the case even if the agent 
was acting fraudulently and in furtherance of his own interest  provided the agent 
is acting within his apparent authority.
This type of authority was described by Diplock LJ in Freeman & Lockyer v 
Buckhurst Properties (Mangal) Ltd [1964] 2 QB 480:
An "apparent" or "ostensible" authorityis a legal relationship between 
the principal and the contractor created by a representation, made by the 
principal to the contractor, intended to be and in fact acted upon by the 
contractor, that the agent has authority to enter on behalf of the principal into a contract of a kind within the scope of the "apparent" authority, so as 
to render the principal liable to perform any obligations imposed upon him 
by such contract. To the relationship so created the agent is a stranger. He 
need not be (although he generally is) aware of the existence of the 
representation but he must not purport to make the agreement as principal 
himself. The representation, when acted upon by the contractor by 
entering into a contract with the agent, operates as an estoppel, 
preventing the principal from asserting that he is not bound by the 
contract. It is irrelevant whether the agent had actual authority to enter into 
the contract.
In ordinary business dealings the contractor at the time of entering into 
the contract can in the nature of things hardly ever rely on the "actual" 
authority of the agent. His information as to the authority must be derived 
either from the principal or from the agent or from both, for they alone 
know what the agents actual authority is. All that the contractor can 
know is what they tell him, which may or may not be true. In the ultimate 
analysis he relies either upon the representation of the principal, that is, 
apparent authority, or upon the representation of the agent, that is, 
warranty of authority...
Although Diplock LJ referred to contractors, the law on apparent authority 
applies to any third party dealing with the agents of a principal  including 
consumers like Mr and Mrs M.
What kinds of representation are capable of giving rise to apparent authority?
Apparent authority cannot arise on the basis of representations made by the 
agent alone. For apparent authority to operate there must be a representation 
by the principal that the agent has its authority to act. As Diplock LJ said in 
Freeman,
The representation which creates "apparent" authority may take a variety 
of forms of which the commonest is representation by conduct, that is, by 
permitting the agent to act in some way in the conduct of the principals 
business with other persons. By so doing the principal represents to 
anyone who becomes aware that the agent is so acting that the agent has 
authority to enter on behalf of the principal into contracts with other 
persons of the kind which an agent so acting in the conduct of his 
principals business has usually "actual" authority to enter into.
In Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [1999]12 WLUK 726, Parker J quoted the relevant 
principle as stated in Article 74 in Bowstead and Reynolds on Agency 16th 
edition:
Where a person, by words or conduct, represents or permits it to be 
represented that another person has authority to act on his behalf he is 
bound by the acts of that other person with respect to anyone dealing with 
him as an agent on the faith of any such representation, to the same 
extent as if such other person had the authority that he was represented to 
have, even though he had no such actual authority.
In the more recent case of Anderson v Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 
Comm, Jacobs J endorsed Parker Js approach:As far as apparent authority is concerned, it is clear from the decision in 
Martin (in particular paragraph 5.3.3) that, in order to establish apparent 
authority, it is necessary for the claimants to establish a representation 
made by Sense [the alleged
principal], which was intended to be acted on and which was in fact 
acted on by the claimants, that MFSS [the alleged agent] was authorised 
by Sense to give advice in connection with the scheme
I also agree with Sense that there is nothing in the "status" disclosure  
i.e. the compulsory wording relating to the status of MFSS and Sense 
appearing at the foot of the stationery and elsewhere  which can be read 
as containing any relevant representation as to MFSSs authority to do 
what they were doing in this case: i.e. running the scheme and advising in 
relation to it. The "status" disclosure did no more than identify the 
regulatory status of MFSS and Sense and the relationship between them. 
I did not consider that the Claimants had provided any persuasive reason 
as to how the statements on which they relied relating to "status 
disclosure" could lead to the conclusion that MFSS was authorised to 
provide advice on the scheme that was being promoted. In my view, a 
case of ostensible authority requires much more than an assertion that 
Sense conferred a "badge of respectability" on MFSS. As Martin shows, it 
requires a representation that there was authority to give advice of the 
type that was giventhe relevant question is whether the firm has 
knowingly or even unwittingly led a customer to believe that an appointed 
representative or other agent is authorised to conduct business on its 
behalf of a type that he is not in fact authorised to conduct. 
Nor is there any analogy with the facts or conclusions in Martin. That case 
was not concerned with any representation alleged to arise from "status" 
disclosure. In Martin, the representation by the principal that the agent 
was a financial adviser acting for an insurance company was regarded as 
a sufficient representation that the adviser could advise on matters (the 
mortgage in that case) which were ancillary to insurance products. In the 
present case, there is nothing in the "status disclosure" which contains 
any representation that MFSS or its financial advisers could operate or 
advise in connection with a deposit scheme that MFSS was running.
The Anderson case was the subject of an appeal. The Court of Appeal has 
now issued its decision agreeing with the earlier decision of Jacobs J. I merely 
wish to acknowledge the fact of the appeal but it should be noted that Jacobs 
Js conclusion on apparent authority was not appealed by the parties involved 
in that case.
The representation may be general in character. In Armagas Ltd v Mundogas 
SA [1985] UKHL 11, Lord Keith said:
In the commonly encountered case, the ostensible authority is general in 
character, arising when the principal has placed the agent in a position 
which in the outside world is generally regarded as carrying authority to 
enter into transactions of the kind in question. Ostensible general 
authority may also arise where the agent has had a course of dealing with 
a particular contractor and the principal has acquiesced in this course of 
dealing and honoured transactions arising out of it.Must the third party rely on the representation?
The principals representation that its agent has its authority to act on its behalf 
will only fix the principal with liability to the third party (here Mr and Mrs M) if the 
third party relied on that representation.
In Anderson, Jacobs J summarised the approach to be taken as to whether or 
not there is sufficient evidence of reliance on the representation as follows:
a relevant ingredient of a case based on apparent authority is reliance on 
the faith of the representation alleged: see Bowstead and Reynolds on 
Agency 21st edition, paragraph [8-010] and [8-024]; Martin paragraph 
5.3.3. In Martin, Jonathan Parker J. held that the relevant representation in 
that case (namely that the adviser was authorised to give financial advice 
concerning a remortgage of the property) was acted on by the plaintiffs in 
that each of them proceeded throughout on the footing that in giving 
advice [the adviser] was acting in every respect as the agent of [the 
alleged principal] with authority from [the alleged principal] so to act.
As the case law makes clear, whether or not a claimant has relied on a 
representation is dependent on the circumstances of that individual case.
So, in determining whether there was apparent authority, I must consider 
whether, on the facts of this individual case:
Abacus made a representation to Mr and Mrs M that Mr B had 
Abacus authority to act on its behalf in carrying out the activities 
they now complain about, and
Mr and Mrs M relied on that representation in entering into the 
transactions they now complain about.
Having considered the law in this area, including Lord Keiths comments in 
Armagas, so far as representations are concerned I need to decide whether 
Abacus placed Mr B in a position which would objectively generally be regarded 
as carrying its authority to enter into transactions such as recommending the 
Abacus Medium Portfolio and arranging and reporting on the recommended 
investments.
I also need to decide whether Mr and Mrs M relied on any representation Abacus 
made. Having considered Parker Js comments in Martin, if Mr and Mrs M 
proceeded throughout on the footing that in giving advice Mr B was acting in every 
respect as the agent of Abacus with authority from Abacus so to act, then this 
suggests I should conclude that Mr and Mrs M relied on Abacus representation.
Did Abacus represent to Mr and Mrs M that Mr B had the relevant authority?
To answer this question, it is right for me to consider whether Abacus placed Mr 
B in a position which would objectively carry Abacus authority for Mr B to 
conduct business of the type he purported to conduct.
My view is that Mr B was acting as an independent financial adviser able to 
independent financial advice through Abacus. And he was able to do this because at the time of events in this complaint, Abacus held itself out generally 
as an authorised independent financial adviser firm that gave advice and offered 
investment products and services from the whole of the market through its 
financial advisers, including Mr B.
This is illustrated in the marketing material relating to Abacus that I have seen that 
was given to other customers at around the same time. There is no direct 
evidence that the marketing material was given to Mr and Mrs M, but given that 
they were longstanding clients of Abacus it is probable that they were provided 
with this or similar material. Even if they were not provided with such material, the 
extract below sets out at least broadly the way in which Abacus was generally 
holding itself (and its advisers) out at the time. The marketing information 
included:
abacus associates financial services ltd
Abacus Associates Financial Services Limited is a well established firm 
of Independent Financial Advisers who specialise in personal financial 
planning. We have advisers based throughout the UK who are ready to 
help you with a personal financial planning meeting in your home, or at 
our offices, whichever you prefer.
With over 30,000 products available form the whole of the financial market 
place, our advisers can ensure you gain unbiased access to not only the 
best value but also the highest quality products available. Our advisers 
can help you build your very own personal strategic financial plan, to 
ensure your vision for the future becomes a reality.
who we are
Abacus Associate Financial Services one of the countrys leading 
Independent Financial advisers, (with funds under management of 
circa £400,000,000).
We are a genuinely independent practice with no ties to any Insurance 
Company, Bank or other financial institution.
This independence enables us to advise our clients on products and 
services from across the whole of the market place.
We tailor our service to the diverse need of our clients, offering each 
one the best possible choice.
Our advisers strive to build a trusted client relationship which will last a lifetime.
what we do
we offer a professional, friendly service with solid, down to earth 
advice that our clients will understand.
We focus on providing out clients with independent wealth 
management services and, through our wealth management services 
and, through our investment in technology and the training of our 
support team, pride ourselves on delivering a highly streamlined 
service to all our clients.
what we stand forAs Independent Financial Advisers we pride ourselves in offering truly 
independent advice. We have the best interests of our client at heart 
and act solely on their behalf at all times.
However professional financial advice does come at a cost much the 
same as legal or accountancy advice.
we specialise in:
Creating tax savings
Protecting families from financial disaster
Retirement and pension planning
Wills and estate planning
Creating cash flow for business and raising finance via mortgages and 
loans
Wealth management
We offer a friendly service with good, down to earth advice that you will understand.
For truly independent advice contact us
what you can expect as a client
Truly independent advice from a fully qualified Independent Financial 
adviser
Support from one of the UKs leading national independent IFA 
firms which is regulated by the Financial Services Authority
A commitment to ensure all cost and charges are transparent 
in line with the Retail Distribution Review
To feel safe and secure in the knowledge that we are 
committed to the highest of professional and regulatory 
standards.
Mr B was authorised to give investment advice by Abacus. He was held out by 
Abacus as one if its advisers. He was registered, by Abacus, as one of its CF30 
financial advisers on the FCA Register which is a register which is freely 
available to the general public.
In his role as a financial adviser with Abacus, Mr B was given business cards and 
stationery and access to Abacus email account and computerised records 
system.
Abacus placed Mr B in a position which would, in the outside world, generally be 
regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mr and Mrs M complains about 
 that is the giving of investment advice and arranging the investment 
recommended. This is the case both generally and in relation to recommending 
and arranging investments in the Abacus Medium Portfolio specifically.
It was in Abacus interest for the general public, including Mr and Mrs M, to 
understand that it was taking responsibility for the advice given by its financial 
advisers. I am satisfied that Abacus intended Mr and Mrs M to act on its 
representation that Mr B was its financial adviser.
I further consider that the provision of financial advice was a key part of Abacus 
business. I do not see how Abacus could have carried out its business activities 
at all if the general public had not treated registered individuals like Mr B as 
having authority to give investment advice on behalf of Abacus.Tavistock says that no documents were provided to Mr and Mrs M in 2016 and 
therefore there could be no relevant representation. However, Mr and Mrs M 
would very likely have been provided with some documentation about Abacus 
and its advisers before 2016 as they were longstanding clients. And in any event 
the Court cases Ive highlighted set out that representations may be general in 
nature and by conduct. The case law does not say that apparent authority 
operates only when a principal has represented in documents that an agent has 
authority to carry out a specific act. Apparent authority operates where a principal 
has represented that its agent has its authority to carry out a more general class 
of acts.
For example, Diplock LJ in Freeman & Lockyer referred to a representation that 
the agent has authority to enter on behalf of the principal into a contract of a kind 
within the scope of the apparent authority. And in Armagas, Lord Keith said that 
in the commonly encountered case ostensible authority is general in character 
arising when the agent is placed in a position generally regarded as carrying 
authority to enter into transactions of the kind in question.
Bearing all this in mind, it is my view that Abacus did represent that Mr B was 
authorised to recommend the Abacus Medium Portfolio to persons, such as Mr 
and Mrs M, who sought Abacus advice and to help such persons then 
implement the recommendation by making the necessary arrangements.
Did Mr and Mrs M reasonably rely on Abacus representation?
This is a key area of dispute. There are two points here  did Mr and Mrs M 
rely on the representation of authority I refer to above? And if they did was 
that reasonable in the circumstances?
I dont think theres any reason to doubt that Mr and Mrs M believed that Mr B 
was acting at all times as an Abacus adviser and authorised to give investment 
advice of the type given here. That was an essential part of the overall fraud 
perpetrated by Mr B.
Tavistocks argument is essentially that it wasnt reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to 
rely on any representations because (in summary):
In contrast to the advice they had received in 2012 and on other 
occasions before 2016, they were not provided with any 
paperwork about the events in 2016.
Again, in contrast to their previous legitimate investments they 
made the cheque for the investment payable directly to Abacus 
Associates.
They had signed the Abacus client agreement acknowledging that 
Abacus did not handle client money. So, this situation was similar to 
Sense where the fact that clients had paid money to the advice firm 
in contradiction to the terms and conditions was held to be fatal to 
apparent authority.
I acknowledge these points and have thought about them carefully. However I 
think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs M to rely on the representations because:
I dont think consumers necessarily understand the processes and 
documents involved in getting financial advice  for example who 
should be providing documentation and what that documentation 
should consist of. And I dont think it is the case that consumers 
should know from previous dealings what the process should look 
like going forward.
I think the circumstances here are important. Mr and Mrs B had an 
existing client relationship with Mr B as an Abacus adviser over a 
number of years and he was meeting them regularly to discuss 
their investments. They may not have been given documentation in 
2016 as was the case previously, but they were, in my view, 
entitled to believe that Mr B was acting in their best interests at all 
times as he had done on other occasions previously.
The cheque was made payable to Abacus Associates and they 
believed that the investment was effectively an Abacus styled 
product within the Standard Life wrapper. I dont expect them to 
have remembered or questioned that this was not how previous 
transactions were concluded. And of course the advice from Mr 
B - their trusted Abacus adviser - was that this arrangement was 
different and streamlined version of what theyd done before.
I do not think that Mr and Mrs M could reasonably be obliged to 
understand that Abacus is not authorised to hold client money or 
to even understand what that concept means. They received the 
client agreement four years previously in 2012 and I would not 
expect them to remember the terms it contained.
This case is also very different to the situation in Sense. In Sense, the 
advice firm was operating a deposit scheme and it was said in the High 
Court:
It is beyond serious argument that the activities of MFSS and Mr. Greig in 
relation to the scheme, both in terms of operating it and advising upon it, 
were wholly unauthorised. It is no part of the ordinary business of a 
financial adviser to operate a scheme for taking deposits from clients. As 
the Claimants' expert, Mr. Morrey, said: "operating the scheme, so having 
the monies under your control, clearly is not the work of a financial 
adviser".
This case does not involve such a scheme. What was being advised on was an 
investment  the Abacus Medium Portfolio  that was entirely within what the 
scope of what Abacus was authorised to give advice on. Mr and Mrs M did not 
believe that their money was being held by Abacus on deposit at all  but 
proceeded on the basis that it would be re-invested in the Abacus Medium 
Portfolio in the Standard Life Wrap.
Furthermore, in Sense, the majority of the claimants had never heard of the 
defendant, Sense Network, and those who had heard of it made their decision to 
invest before they saw the stationery which they later said contained the 
representation on which they relied. Here, Mr and Mrs M had clearly heard of Abacus (having been existing clients for some years) and, in my view, proceeded 
(correctly) on the basis that Mr B was authorised to provide the financial advice 
services he gave in connection with the Abacus Medium Portfolio.
Overall, on balance, the evidence does indicate that Mr and Mrs M reasonably 
proceeded on the basis that Mr B was acting in every respect as the agent of 
Abacus with authority from Abacus so to act.
My conclusion on agency
It is my conclusion that Abacus is responsible for the acts and omission of Mr B 
from 2016 in respect of the advice to invest in the Abacus Medium Portfolio until 
the discovery of the fraud on the basis of apparent or ostensible authority for the 
reasons set out above. As such, we have jurisdiction to consider the merits of this 
complaint.
Vicarious liability
I think it is also appropriate for me to consider whether Abacus is vicariously 
liable for the advice and actions of Mr B  independently of whether apparent 
authority also operated such as to fix Abacus with liability for the actions of its 
agents.
What is vicarious liability?
Vicarious liability is a common law principle of strict, no-fault liability for wrongs 
committed by another person.
Not all relationships are capable of giving rise to vicarious liability. The classic 
example of a relationship which can give rise to vicarious liability is the 
employment relationship, but
Mr B was not an employee of Abacus. However, the employment relationship is 
not the only relationship capable of giving rise to vicarious liability.
Broadly, there is a two stage test to decide whether vicarious liability can apply:
Stage one is to ask whether there is a sufficient relationship 
between the wrongdoer and the principal.
Stage two is to ask whether the wrongdoing itself was sufficiently 
connected to the wrongdoers duties on behalf of the principal for 
it to be just for the principal to be held liable.
These are general principles. They are discussed and applied in a series of 
recent Supreme Court decisions including:
Various Claimants v Catholic Child Welfare Society [2012] UKSC 56 
(the Christian Brothers)
Cox v Ministry of Justice [2016] UKSC 10
Mohamud v WM Morrison Supermarkets plc 
[2016] UKSC 11 Armes v Nottinghamshire County 
Council [2017] UKSC 60
WM Morrison Supermarkets plc v Various Claimants 
[2020] UKSC 12 Barclays Bank v Various Claimants [2020] UKSC 13
It has long been recognised that an employer can be vicariously liable for the 
fraudulent acts of an employee acting in the course of his employment. There is 
no requirement that the fraud be for the benefit of the employer. This was 
confirmed by the House of Lords in Lloyd v Grace Smith & Co in 1912. In that 
case a law firm was held to be vicariously liable for the fraud of a solicitors clerk 
who dishonestly persuaded a client to transfer property over to him.
Tavistock says that the investigator has unjustifiably sought to extend vicarious 
liability to a financial advice context when there has been a reluctance by the 
courts do so this. I dont think that actually reflects the issue in the courts cases 
have debated. The debate is whether the general tests I mentioned above apply 
in cases involving vicarious liability, agency and fraudulent misrepresentation or 
deceit.
Tavistock have highlighted the case of Frederick v Positive Solutions [2018] 
EWCA Civ 431. This is a Court of Appeal decision that concerned fraud and an 
agent who was a financial adviser. It involved dishonest mortgage applications 
submitted by the agent in the name of the claimants to raise money to enter into 
a property development project with the agent.
The Court of Appeal said that even if it is assumed that the unitary modern law 
of vicarious liability as set out in the Christian Brothers and the Cox cases 
applied, the case did not satisfy the two- stage test. The adviser was engaged 
on a recognisably independent business of his own.
The Court of Appeal went on to say:
77. In the circumstances, it is not necessary to go further and determine 
whetherreliance based torts such as deceit or misrepresentation 
committed by an agent are in a distinct category from other cases such as 
the Christian Brothers case, Cox or Mohamud, so that the principal cannot 
be vicariously liable unless the agent had actual or ostensible authority
In 2018 the Court of Appeal considered another vicarious liability case involving 
fraud and agency. The case was James Scott Winter v Hockley Mint Limited 
[2018] EWCA Civ 2480. It was said there that:
48. Armagas [v Mundagas [1986] 1AC 717] is binding authority of the 
House of Lords that, where a claimant has suffered loss in reliance on 
the deceit of an agent, the principal is vicariously liable if, but only if, the 
deceitful conduct of the agent was within his or her actual or ostensible 
authority.
In 2019 the Court of Appeal made a decision in another case involving 
vicarious liability, fraud and financial services. That case involved appointed 
representatives rather than common law agency  though some of the issues 
involved are similar. That case was Sense, a case that Ive referred to above 
in other sections of this decision. Both the
Frederick and the James Winter cases were referred to in argument in that case but the
James Winter case is not referred to in the judgment. The court said:
64. In my judgment, there is no substance in the appeal on vicarious liability. The judge made clear findings that Midas was carrying on its own 
business and it is not open to the appellants to go behind those findings. 
Sense also carried on its own business which comprised providing the 
regulatory umbrella for independent financial services firms. When Midas 
and its advisers provided financial advice, they were doing so as part of 
Midas's own recognisably independent business. In no sense could it be 
said that they were carrying out activities assigned to them by Sense as 
part of Sense's business and for Sense's benefit.
65. It is unnecessary to express any view on further submissions made 
on behalf of Sense that these principles of vicarious liability are not 
applicable in the case of commercial agents, particularly as regards the 
issue left open by this court
in Frederick v Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Ltd [2018] EWCA 
Civ 431 at [77], and I do not do so.
It would not seem to be right to speculate about what, if anything, the Supreme 
Court would have said about vicarious liability and fraudulent misrepresentation if 
it had heard the Frederick v Positive Solutions case. It seems to me that until the 
Supreme Court considers the point, or the courts otherwise give clear guidance 
to the contrary, the position would appear to be as set out in the House of Lords 
decision of Armagas as confirmed by the Court of Appeal in the James Winter 
case.
All of that said, for the reasons already discussed above it is my view that Mr Bs 
conduct in advising Mr and Mrs M to invest in the Abacus Medium Portfolio, 
agreeing to arrange that investment, and purporting to make those 
arrangements and report on the performance of the investment was conduct that 
was within his apparent authority. Accordingly, I consider that Abacus is 
vicariously liable for that conduct even if apparent authority is the only criterion 
for fixing vicarious liability to all the statements and actions concerned.
However I think there is significant uncertainty about the correct test in a case 
such as this one. I say that for three reasons. First, the agents dishonesty in this 
case manifested itself not just in fraudulent misrepresentations but also in a 
course of dishonest physical conduct (receiving and paying into his own bank 
account a cheque that did not belong to him).
Second, Mr and Mrs M have the benefit of the clients best interest rule, a 
regulatory provision which is designed to protect consumers against a spectrum 
of misconduct, including but not limited to dishonest misconduct, which applies 
irrespective of whether the conduct also involves the tort of deceit.
Third, the Court of Appeal has applied the general test for vicarious liability to 
dishonest conduct where the particular legal wrong relied upon is something 
other than the tort of deceit: see Group Seven Ltd v Notable Services [2019] 
EWCA Civ 614, where the general test was applied in finding a principal 
vicariously liable for dishonest assistance in a breach of trust and for conspiracy 
to use unlawful means.
These points suggest to me that it is most likely that the more general test for 
vicarious liability (not just the apparent authority test applicable to the tort of 
deceit) also applies in this case in relation to Mr Bs handling of the cheque and to 
the question of Abacus responsibility for all his statements and conduct under 
s.138D FSMA. I am not extending the law, but simply applying it. As such I have also considered the general two stage test.
The stage 1 test:
In Barclays Bank plc v Various Claimants Lady Hale reiterated that, when faced 
with a case where vicariously liability may be imposed:
The question therefore is, as it has always been, whether the tortfeasor is 
carrying on business on his own account or whether he is in a relationship 
akin to employment with the defendant. In doubtful cases, the five 
incidents identified by Lord Phillips [in the Christian Brothers case] may 
be helpful in identifying a relationship which is sufficiently analogous to 
employment to make it fair, just and reasonable to impose vicarious 
liability. Although they were enunciated in the context of non-commercial 
enterprises, they may be relevant in deciding whether workers who may 
be technically self-employed or agency workers are effectively part and 
parcel of the employers business. But the key, as it was in Christian 
Brothers, Cox and Armes, will usually lie in understanding the details of 
the relationship. Where it is clear that the tortfeasor is carrying on his own 
independent business it is not necessary to consider the five incidents.
In this case Mr B was not an employee. He was a self-employed agent of 
Abacus. But he was not carrying on his own independent business like the 
doctor in the Barclays case. Or like the appointed representative Midas in the 
Sense case. He was carrying out work for Abacus. He was throughout 
purporting to be an adviser acting for Abacus. He gave advice on its behalf and 
he recommended and arranged investments such as the Abacus Medium 
Portfolio. He was part and parcel of Abacus business of giving financial advice 
and providing related services to its clients such as will drafting. And I am 
satisfied their relationship was akin to employment.
In these circumstances, I have no doubt that a relationship existed between Mr B 
and Abacus such that Abacus may be held vicariously liable for their actions. But 
even if this was one of the doubtful cases that Lady Hale referred to, I consider 
that the five incidents Lord Phillips identified in the Christian Brothers case would 
still point towards the relationship being one to which vicarious liability could 
apply. Those five points are:
(i) the employer is more likely to have the means to 
compensate the victim than the employee and can be 
expected to have insured against that liability
(ii) the tort will have been committed as a result of activity 
being taken by the employee on behalf of the employer;
(iii) the employees activity is likely to be part of the business 
activity of the employer;
(iv) the employer, by employing the employee to carry on the 
activity will have created the risk of the tort committed by 
the employee;
(v) the employee will, to a greater or lesser degree, have been 
under the control of the employer.
I note:
Abacus is considerably more likely to have the means to compensate Mr and Mrs M than Mr B. Abacus can be expected 
to have insured against that liability and may even have been 
required to hold professional indemnity insurance as a condition 
of its authorisation by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Abacus had assigned to Mr B the activity of giving investment 
advice and arranging investments on its behalf. The acts Mr and 
Mrs M complains of  the failure to recommend and arrange a 
suitable investment as agreed  was therefore carried out as a 
result of activity Mr B undertook on Abacus behalf.
Mr Bs activity was very much part of Abacus. Its purpose was to 
provide independent financial advice and arrange the investments 
it recommends. That advice was only provided by its advisers, 
such as Mr B, who was registered with the regulator as Abacus 
CF30 approved persons.
In assigning to Mr B the activity of giving investment advice on 
its behalf, Abacus created the obvious risk that he might do 
so not only negligently but also dishonestly.
Mr B was to a very large degree under the control of 
Abacus. The Regulators rules required Abacus to properly 
supervise all of its approved persons, including Mr B.
However, the fact that the relationships in question are capable of giving rise to 
vicarious liability does not mean that Abacus is automatically liable for everything 
Mr B did. To decide whether Abacus is liable in the circumstances of this 
complaint (according to the general tests), I must also consider whether the act 
complained of is sufficiently connected to Mr Bs duties on behalf of Abacus  the 
stage two test.
The stage two test
Under this test there are two important questions:
What was the field of activities Abacus had assigned to Mr B?
Was the act complained of so closely connected with the acts Mr B 
was authorised to do such that, for the purposes of Abacus liability 
to Mr and Mrs M, that act may fairly and properly be regarded as 
having been done by Mr B while acting in the ordinary course of his 
duties for Abacus?
Investment advice is regulated and investment advice may only be given by 
those authorised to give it  regulated firms  and the approved persons who 
give advice on the firms behalf. Accordingly Mr B appeared on the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Register as an approved person able to give such advice 
on Abacus behalf. For the purposes of the application of the stage two test to Mr 
and Mrs Ms complaint, I consider that the field of activities assigned to Mr B by 
Abacus should be described as the giving of investment advice and arranging 
recommended investments (and agreeing to do both).
In considering the close connection part of the test:This complaint is about the investment advice Mr B gave and his 
failure to arrange the investment he recommended.
The advice given was of a type authorised by Abacus and Mr B 
was authorised to arrange investments of the type he 
recommended - the Abacus Medium portfolio.
Mr B was outwardly purporting to act on behalf of Abacus and Mr 
and Mrs M handed over the cheque made payable to Abacus 
Associates for investment in the Abacus Medium portfolio.
Mr B had agreed with Abacus that he would follow certain processes 
when giving investment advice and arranging the investment he 
recommended and he did not do so.
I would not expect an ordinary consumer in Mr and Mrs Ms position 
to have noticed the deficiencies in the advice process.
I do not consider that Mr and Mrs M, or an ordinary consumer in the 
position of Mr and Mrs M, could reasonably have known that Mr B 
had no intention of arranging the investment he was recommending 
seemingly on behalf of and connected to Abacus  the Abacus 
Medium Portfolio.
The Supreme Court considered the position of a wrongdoers motive 
in Morrisons. It made clear that the wrongdoers motive is a relevant 
consideration. But the point about motive is not whether Mr B was 
motivated by personal greed to act dishonestly but rather whether he 
was acting dishonestly when going about his employers business or 
whether the was pursuing private ends. In this case Mr B was 
pursuing Abacus business. He arranged the drafting of the will for 
example.  He did wrongfully perform his duties in relation to the 
investment. But he wasnt, for example, moonlighting or pursuing a 
personal vendetta against either Mr and Mrs M or Abacus. He was 
just dishonestly performing his duties as an Abacus investment 
adviser.
I consider that the field of activities Abacus had assigned to Mr B was the giving 
of investment advice and the arranging or recommended investments and 
agreeing to do both. And having taken all the evidence into account, I am 
satisfied that the acts complained of  the failure to recommend and arrange a 
suitable investment as agreed - were indeed so closely connected with the acts 
Mr B was authorised to do such that, for the purposes of Abacus liability to Mr 
and Mrs M, that advice and failure to arrange as agreed may fairly and properly 
be regarded as having been done by Mr B while acting in the ordinary course of 
his duties for Abacus.
For the reasons given above, I am therefore satisfied that Abacus is vicariously 
liable for the advice to Mr and Mrs M to invest in the Abacus Medium portfolio 
and failure to arrange that recommended investment, as agreed, by Mr B.
Statutory responsibility under section 138D(2) of FSMAFor the reasons Ive given above, I am satisfied that when Mr B advised Mr and 
Mrs M to disinvest and reinvest in the Abacus Medium Portfolio and failed to 
arrange that recommended investment, he was acting in his capacity as 
Abacus approved person for the purpose of carrying on Abacus regulated 
business. He was not carrying on a business of his own notwithstanding the fact 
that he stole Mr and Mrs Ms money.
Mr and Mrs M was Abacus client for the purposes of the clients best interests 
rule in COBS. That term applies to anyone to whom a firm provides a service in 
the course of carrying on a regulated activity, and includes potential clients. So 
my finding that Abacus, through Mr B, undertook regulated activities for Mr and 
Mrs M means they were its client.
That means Abacus is subject to the clients best interests rule in respect of Mr 
Bs actions. If Mr B failed to act honestly and failed to arrange the 
recommended investment then (subject to recognised defences) Abacus is 
responsible in damages to Mr and Mrs M under the statutory cause of action 
provided by section 138D(2) of FSMA.
I therefore consider that section 138D(2) of FSMA provides an alternative route 
by which Abacus is responsible for the acts complained of.
Summary of my findings on jurisdiction
Having carefully considered all of the circumstances, as well as the legal 
authorities, I am satisfied that:
Abacus is responsible for the acts complained about through 
apparent (or ostensible) authority.
Abacus is vicariously liable for the acts Mr and Mrs M complain about.
Abacus has statutory responsibility under section 138D(2) of 
FSMA for the acts complained about if there was a breach of 
the client best interests rule.
I am therefore satisfied that Abacus is responsible for the acts Mr and 
Mrs M have complained about.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Tavistock has argued that the merits of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should not be 
considered until the issue of jurisdiction is resolved. In particular it thought that 
the approach to merits issues  that they are decided on the basis of what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances  had influenced the investigators 
approach on jurisdiction matters.
I have set out above my view on jurisdiction.  I have made it clear how I have 
approached the issue and that I have not based any part of my view on a 
consideration of what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.As it is my view that I have jurisdiction and as both parties have been given the 
opportunity to comment on both jurisdiction and merits and, given the 
requirement to resolve complaints which are within our jurisdiction speedily and 
with minimal formality, I now set out my conclusions on the merits of Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint also.
Mr and Mrs M were in contact with Mr B about their investments. They were 
happy with their Abacus Medium Portfolio that they were invested in. But they 
were advised that it would be in their interests to disinvest and reinvest in the 
same investment as to do so via Abacus at that time would be more cost 
effective. They were also directed to make ongoing monthly contributions as 
part of the new arrangement.
It was in fact not cheaper for Mr and Mrs M to undertake this course of action 
and there is no basis to say this was a suitable course of action.
Mr B then failed to arrange the investment. He failed to do so because he was 
acting dishonestly. He was when carrying out his duties as an Abacus adviser 
towards Mr and Mrs M, failing to act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of his clients, Mr and Mrs M.
Mr B had agreed to arrange the investment but instead stole Mr and Mrs Ms 
money and continued to pocket the monthly contributions. He paid Mr and Mrs 
Ms money into his account and used it for his own purposes. In order to 
maintain the concealment of his theft he provided them with false portfolio 
valuations on at least one occasion.
Mr Bs conduct in not arranging the recommended investment and the monthly 
contributions as he had agreed to do but instead stealing the money has 
caused Mr and Mrs M to lose money. They have also lost the investment return 
they could have earned on their money.
And they have suffered considerable trouble and upset in being the subject of 
Mr Bs conduct.
Is it fair and reasonable that Tavistock compensate Mr and Mrs M?
I have said above that Tavistock is responsible for Mr Bs conduct. That point 
needs to be emphasised  Mr Bs conduct. My decision is not about Abacuss 
conduct, about for example whether it did enough to supervise Mr B. That is not 
the test.
Clearly Abacus did not actually authorise Mr B to steal Mr and Mrs Ms money. 
And it did not receive it. So is it fair to require Abacus to compensate Mr and 
Mrs M for his losses?
I have found that Abacus is responsible for Mr Bs conduct in relation to Mr and 
Mrs M, because I consider the law would impose liability on Abacus for his 
actions. So it is not necessarily unfair to require Abacus to pay compensation 
for the losses caused by Mr Bs dishonesty. I dont have to follow the law but, 
bearing in mind the legal position, I do think it fair and reasonable to take as my 
starting point that I should ask Abacus to compensate
Mr and Mrs M for the effect of Mr Bs actions unless there is good reason why it 
shouldnt do so.Tavistock made points, which I referred to above, when arguing that Mr and Mrs 
M should not be considered to have reasonably relied on any representation of 
authority by Abacus. I have considered these same points again in order to 
decide whether it is fair and reasonable to require Tavistock to compensate Mr 
and Mrs M. For the same reasons set out previously, I dont think Mr and Mrs M 
acted unreasonably in their belief that Mr B was conducting genuine Abacus 
business and was acting in their interests. They were not careless. They were 
the innocent victims of a dishonest financial adviser who was an agent of 
Abacus acting within his apparent authority in recommending they invest in the 
Abacus Medium Portfolio.
In my view it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances to require Abacus to 
compensate Mr and Mrs M.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be 
to put Mr and Mrs M as close to the position they would probably now be in if 
theyd had not entrusted Mr B with advising them on their investments and 
ongoing contributions.
In the particular circumstances of this case, it seems reasonable to say Mr and 
Mrs M would have remained invested in their respective Abacus Medium 
Portfolios within the Standard Life wrap. They were happy with the 
arrangements and it appears to have been in line with their risk profile. Their 
understanding was that the monies would be re- invested as per previously and 
this action was being undertaken as Abacus/Standard Life were streamlining 
their business model which meant less fees for them to pay.
So, if Mr B hadnt disinvested their monies or asked them to make the monthly 
contributions to Abacus, I am satisfied Mr and Mrs M would have continued to 
have remained invested as they were.
I also understand that the previous portfolios are still active and so Tavistock 
should be able to calculate what the financial position Mr and Mrs M would have 
been in if they hadnt surrendered their investments in 2016 and if the monthly 
payments continued to be invested as per their original instructions.
Ive noted that the portfolios were split across ISAs held by Mr and Mrs M and a 
joint unit trust  with the intention that the fund in the joint unit trust would be 
invested in the ISAs in subsequent years. However, Mr and Mrs M have 
confirmed that they dont intend to now reinvest in ISAs. So Ive made the 
parties aware that, unlike the investigator before me, I make no allowance in the 
compensation for the loss of the ISA allowance and will ask Tavistock to 
compensate Mr and Mrs M in cash.
I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr and 
Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when they invested.
What should Tavistock do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs M fairly, Tavistock must:Compare the actual value of their investment of £104,488 against the 
value of their investments if they had remained invested in their existing 
Abacus portfolios (the benchmark) from the start date to the end date 
as summarised below in the table below.
Compare the position of their monthly contributions if these had 
continued to be invested in line with the original instruction from the 
start date to the end date as summarised in the table below.
Pay Mr and Mrs M the difference between benchmark and 
actual value (the compensation).
Pay Mr and Mrs M a sum of £1,000 for the considerable upset they 
have suffered as a result of losing their money because of Abacus' 
adviser's dishonesty. This has clearly been the cause of much stress and 
worry for them, especially at a time when Mrs M has been in ill health. 
Ive taken that into account in this award.
Income tax may also be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to
(end
date)additional interest
The sum 
disinvested 
in 2016The surrender 
proceeds were 
not reinvested 
and the 
investment 
money 
(£104,488)
was stolenIf they had 
remained 
invested in 
the portfolios 
within the 
Standard 
Life Wrap: 
Abacus
MediumDate of 
surrenderDate of this 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of this 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Minus,
Abacus
Medium Plus
and Abacus
Medium
The 
monthly 
contributions 
made by Mr 
and Mrs M 
made 
between 
June 2016 
and August 
2017The 15 x 
monthly 
contributions of
£1,000 x 2 were 
not invested 
and were stolenIf they had 
invested in 
the portfolios 
within the 
Standard 
Life Wrap as 
per previous 
contributionsDates each 
monthly 
payments 
were madedate of 
this 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of this 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of 
the business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual valueThis should be taken to zero. This is because the monies were stolen and havent been 
recovered.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as above. My decision is that Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited should pay Mr 
and Mrs M the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000 plus 
interest.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is 
more than £150,000, I recommend that Tavistock Partners (UK) Limited pays Mr and Mrs 
M the balance.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. Tavistock Partners (UK) 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr and Mrs M can accept 
my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr and Mrs M may want to get 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Abdul Hafez
Ombudsman