DRN-3548003
The complaint
Mr D says Tesco Personal Finance Plc, has treated him unfairly in relation to a transaction 
on his credit card which paid for accommodation abroad.
What happened
In September 2019 Mr D used his Tesco credit card to make a payment for accommodation 
abroad. The accommodation was to be occupied during April 2020. He paid what Ill call 
Firm B who had provided information about availability and rates for the accommodation on 
its website. The property was to be supplied by another party who Ill call Firm C. Mr D paid 
the equivalent (after currency conversion) of £2451.48 for the accommodation to Firm B, and 
this was allocated to Mr Ds credit card account.
Mr D had booked flights separately and these were cancelled by the airline due to the 
Pandemic. Mr D says that he couldnt travel to the accommodation due to the pandemic 
rules in place in the UK. Mr D complained to Firm C and it has been said that it offered a 
credit voucher for future use. But Mr D wanted his money back. He complained to Firm B, 
but it made clear it wouldnt refund him.
So he took his dispute to Tesco to see if it could help. Tesco says it had many such claims 
and didnt provide good customer service to Mr D. So it paid him £150 in recognition of that. 
Tesco says it considered the matter and having done so it didnt think it needed to refund 
him the cost of the accommodation. So Mr D, still unsatisfied, brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our Investigator felt Tesco didnt have to do anymore. And Mr D remains unhappy and so 
this complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D used his Tesco credit card to pay Firm B for the accommodation. This means that if 
certain criteria are met Tesco can have certain responsibilities to Mr D which arise from the 
relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA). In 
summary in certain circumstances Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr D to hold Tesco 
liable for breaches of contract, or misrepresentations made in relation to the agreement 
made. In essence Tesco can be held responsible for a like claim against the supplier.
Also Mr Ds Tesco credit card is part of a card network which is operated by another 
company. And this network has rules which includes giving Tesco an avenue for card 
transactions to be disputed with Merchants, namely through the Chargeback process.
I should also add at this juncture that this decision is solely about Tesco and whether it did 
what it should have and whether it treated Mr D fairly. This decision isnt about Firm B or the 
Firm C, neither of whom are parties to this decision and neither of which are within this 
Services remit for complaints regarding Chargeback and S75. I hope this distinction is clear.
could Tesco challenge the transaction through a Chargeback? 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Mr D 
does here, Tesco can attempt to go through the Chargeback process. Mr D doesnt dispute 
that he used his Tesco credit card here. Nor does he dispute the amount, date, or any other 
details about the transaction itself. So I dont think Tesco couldve challenged the payment 
on the basis Mr D didnt properly authorise the transaction, given what Ive just set out.
Tesco is required to consider whether there is a reasonable prospect of success when it is 
considering whether to go through the Chargeback process or not. If it does go through the 
process, then it must do so properly. And it can fairly decide to not proceed at any stage if it 
doesnt think there is a reasonable prospect of success.
Tesco never raised a chargeback due to how busy it was. But it has said subsequently that it 
doesnt make a difference here and this hasnt caused Mr D any loss because it feels any 
such chargeback would have been unsuccessful anyway. It says this because the 
accommodation was available for Mr D to use.
I can see in Mr Ds discussions with the parties here it was made clear that he wouldnt be 
given a refund. And the cancellation policy was that if Mr D cancelled or was a no-show 
then 100% of what was paid would be charged in that circumstance. And this is what 
happened. And Firm C wasnt responsible for either Mr Ds travel arrangements or that the 
pandemic rules that came into force in the UK. And our research shows that the 
accommodation was available and would have been legally provided under the local rules.
Bearing in mind that a refund was refused I think Firm C would have defended any 
chargeback that Tesco raised. And had Tesco pursued the matter I think, as the 
accommodation was available for use, then it would have been unsuccessful however far 
Tesco pursued the chargeback through the network rules. So I dont think Mr D has lost out 
because of what Tesco did.
Section 75
Before deciding on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some 
requirements set out in the CCA which also have to be met before these issues can be 
considered. One of these tests is around financial limits and having considered these I think 
on balance that Mr Ds claim meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the CCA for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. Im not persuaded I need to make a finding at this point because for 
other reasons I have decided that Tesco doesnt need to do anymore. 
For Tesco to be held accountable under a like claim under s75 it has to be shown that the 
supplier either breached the contract or materially misrepresented something to Mr D which 
was untrue and that his fair reliance on that untruth led to loss.
Weve already established that the rental accommodation was available for Mr D to use and 
that Firm C could legally provide it under local rules. Mr D paid for this service and Firm C 
could have provided it had Mr D arrived on the allotted day. Hence it is clear there is no 
breach of contract on the part of Firm C. And Ive seen no persuasive evidence of Firm C 
telling Mr D something that was untrue which led to loss. So without any misrepresentation or breach of contract here Tesco cannot be held to a like claim and thus doesnt have to 
refund Mr D for his loss. 
It would be unfair on either Tesco or Firm C to have to pay out in these circumstances as 
neither have responsibility for the pandemic or Mr Ds inability to travel. I appreciate the 
reasons why Mr D didnt travel, and I appreciate my decision means hes lost a lot of money. 
However for me to decide Tesco should pay Id have to decide it is responsible for this loss 
and Im not persuaded it is because there is no breach of contract or misrepresentation. And 
I dont think its position on Chargeback is wrong either, as I think it would have been 
unsuccessful.
It should also be remembered that the only reason Tesco is potentially liable is due to this 
legislation Ive described. If the legislation wasnt in place then Tesco wouldnt have such 
potential liability for the accommodation (it would have obligations around Chargeback but 
that isnt nearly as extensive in terms of protection to the consumer). So it is key that if I am 
to hold Tesco liable, the tests required under the CCA must be met such as breach of 
contract or misrepresentation. And Im satisfied it isnt made out here.
I note Mr D has made a large number of arguments in relation to this case. Ive considered 
them all. Ill now address the key arguments hes made for clarity.
Mr D points to the network guidance the network provided in response to the pandemic. Hes 
right in saying it was released after this transaction. Ive considered the chargeback rules at 
the time of both the transaction and when such a chargeback should have been raised. Im 
satisfied on balance had Tesco raised a chargeback it would have been unsuccessful. It 
should be noted the guidance was guidance on chargebacks generally and wasnt a new set 
of rules. It was released to give further guidance due to the rapid increase in chargebacks 
due to the pandemic. So I dont Mr Ds argument here is persuasive.
Mr D says these were exceptional circumstances where matters cannot be the same as 
under normal chargeback where the question is quite simply whether or not the merchant 
fulfilled its obligations, if it had, there are no chargeback rights applicable. The Pandemic 
was a truly unique devasting event. But there is no exceptional circumstances clause in the 
chargeback rules which make Tesco responsible for this or force suppliers to carry the loss 
here by returning funds contrary to the agreed terms of the contract. Mr D also says Tesco 
failed to protect consumers here. However Tesco is only responsible for fulfilling its 
obligations that it has either as a regulated business or within the agreements it has with its 
customers. There is not an all-encompassing duty on it to pay out when consumers loose 
out due to circumstances outside of its control and outside of those obligations or contractual 
arrangements.
Mr D says Firm C breached its contract with the customer as it was impossible for a 
reasonable customer at that time to enter the premises due to the pandemic. This clearly 
isnt the case. From our research and what the parties have said the property was available 
for use by Mr D. Firm C wasnt responsible for restrictions in the UK or any travel 
arrangements Mr D needed to get to the property. And Im satisfied it didnt breach the 
contract.
Mr D points to one of our published case studies to support his case where a holiday was 
cancelled. But that isnt the case here. The accommodation wasnt cancelled by Firm C nor 
was it a holiday (which can have different rules and protections)-this was accommodation 
only. So Im not persuaded by this argument.
Mr D says The customer, in this case, is not at fault therefore, Tesco/(network) has a duty of 
care to protect the customer against an inaccessible service. This decision is about Tesco only and not the network. It is true Mr D isnt at fault. But there is no such duty of care for 
Tesco to underwrite losses such as Mr D suggests or to take actions to protect customers in 
regards of the huge numbers of such cases of inaccessible services due to a pandemic such 
as this.
I fully accept Mr D hasnt done anything wrong here. But neither has Tesco. And ultimately 
the agreement Mr D entered into enabled Firm C to keep the money if Mr D didnt attend. 
Which is what happened. And there is no aspect of the contract which saves Mr D in such 
circumstances. So it would be unfair for Tesco to bear such a loss which isnt its fault either.
I appreciate that this isnt the decision which Mr D wishes to read. And I appreciate that this 
decision will mean Mr Ds avenues for recouping these significant funds spent here will be 
significantly limited. But this does not mean that Tesco has done anything wrong in dealing 
with the issues arising from this transaction. Or that it should refund him.
Tesco paid Mr D £150 for its poor customer service. I think this is fair. It is clear Mr Ds major 
loss here is not due to the customer service but rather his paying for a service which he 
didnt use. And this isnt Tescos responsibility.
So all in all having considered the matter and everything Mr D has said, Im not persuaded 
Tesco has treated Mr D unfairly. It has remedied its poor service. So I dont think Tesco has 
done anything else wrong here which requires further remedy. And as a consequence Ive 
decided that Mr Ds complaint shouldnt succeed.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Tesco Personal 
Finance Plc. It has nothing further to do in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman