DRN-3281394
The complaint
Mr D complains MBNA Limited wont refund several transactions he disputes to having 
carried out on his credit card.
What happened
In November and December 2019, several transactions to a merchant - who provide a 
payment service platform for adult services - were made from Mr Ds MBNA account. As 
these transactions are well known to both parties, I wont list them here.
Mr D called MBNA at the end of December 2019 to report them as fraudulent after he says
he saw the transactions online. MBNA initially refunded all these payments but after
receiving information from the merchant, MBNA reversed its decision and held Mr D liable
for them.
Unhappy with this, Mr D complained. In its response MBNA said:
- the merchant provided documentation which they said proved the transactions were 
genuine
- Mr Ds card had been used to make several payments to the merchant before
- MBNAs fraud department decided it couldnt accept Mr Ds claim because the driving 
license provided by the merchant is a genuine updated version; they questioned why 
a fraudster would carry out this type of fraud which has little or no financial gain; and 
why the merchant was able to provide a copy of the credit card
Mr D referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into the matter 
and they didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint. Unhappy with what our investigator said, Mr D 
asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
I sent both Mr D and MBNA my provisional decision on the matter and gave them both a 
deadline to get back to me with any further responses. 
My provisional decision 
I said was planning not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ive attached the relevant extract from 
my provisional decision to show my reasons for doing so: 
This is a finely balanced complaint. Where matters are like this, and where there is 
inconclusive or missing evidence, I can reach my decision on what I think is most likely to 
have happened - the balance of probabilities.
In short, MBNA is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). Mr D says he never made several payments to a merchant who provided a payment 
platform for adult services  so he wants them refunded.
Im satisfied from the MBNAs technical evidence Mr Ds genuine card details were used to 
make the disputed transactions  and the correct form, in order to make those payments in 
line with MBNAs processes, were carried out.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to enable MBNA 
to hold Mr D liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more 
likely than not Mr D consented to the payments being made.
To my mind, there are three possibilities here: (i) Mr D did not consent to the payments; 
(ii)Mr D carried out the payments himself; and (iii) Mr D authorised someone else to use his 
card.
A central aspect to this complaint is how, if at all, Mr Ds credit card and other personal 
credentials were compromised. I say that because MBNA decided to renege on refunding 
Mr D the transactions because the merchant was able to provide a clear photo copy of 
Mr Ds MBNA credit card and a copy of a driving licence.
The merchant also provided MBNA with screenshots of dialogue with the person using the 
service which it says shows it was Mr D. However, the information given to me is unreadable 
 so for that reason, I have not considered it.
Mr D says his credit card and old driving licence were copied by a retailer he bought gold 
from in October 2019. Hes also said its not uncommon for driving licences to be forged in 
the country he resides in  the same place he bought gold.
As MBNA had provided us with these copies, I asked our investigator to present the driving 
licence to Mr D for further comment  alongside a copy of Mr Ds current driving licence 
which hed already given to us.
Mr D said the licence copy provided by the merchant was his old one which was replaced 
when QR codes were introduced in the country he resides in. He says, from memory, this 
happened at some point in 2018. He also adds he has no idea where the old driving licence 
is as he believes it was collected when the new ones were issued.
Given what Mr D has said, I find this casts significant doubt on his assertion that his card 
details were compromised when he was buying the gold. I say that because this happened 
in October 2019, and Mr Ds old driving licence, according to his recollection, was taken from 
him in 2018.
I appreciate memories fade with time, but I think its unlikely Mr D would be mistaken by a 
whole year or so. So for that reason, I think if Mr D did hand over his driving licence to a 
retailer that he was buying jewellery from in October 2019, it would most likely have been his 
new and current one.
So, this means theres no real plausible reason to explain how the merchant for whom Mr D 
disputes having made payments to came into possession of copies of Mr Ds old genuine 
licence. If indeed someone had, I question why theyd have waited since 2018 to carry out 
fraud.
MBNAs records show Mr D paid for the gold jewellery using CHIP and PIN. Because of this 
I can see why our investigator questioned why Mr Ds credit card was copied. I agree its 
curious why these details were copied for this reason. But I cant be sure what retailers do in 
terms of taking customer details in the country Mr D bought the gold from. So, because of 
that, its difficult for me to make a finding on whether its more likely than not the gold retailer 
asked Mr D for his credit card and driving licence to make copies.Mr D has provided comprehensive information to show he was in another country - and one 
which wouldnt allow access to adult services - for the transactions that took place in 
November 2019. But I dont think I can put too much weight on this showing he didnt carry 
out the disputed transactions. Thats because hes said he knows how to change his IP 
address. In other words, he would have known how to tell his computer it was in another 
location to the one he was in. This in turn could have circumvented any local internet 
restrictions.
Its unfortunate MBNA dont have records of the IP addresses these transactions were 
carried out from. But for the reasons above, I dont think they would have made a difference.
Ive listened to the call Mr D made to MBNA when he reported the transactions as fraud in 
December 2019. I note he says he noticed the transactions for the first time when he logged 
into his account online. MBNA have given me records from its internal systems, which have 
been run with a date range from November 2019 till February 2020. Ive looked at these very 
carefully. They show the first online login across the date range was in early February 2020.
Mr D has been consistent and clear throughout that he only noticed the transactions when 
logging into his online account in December 2019. I dont know why there is this 
inconsistency between MBNAs records and what Mr D says for sure, but given the evidence 
Ive seen, I think its most likely Mr D didnt login in December 2019. In turn this suggests he 
found out about the transactions from another source - or that he was aware of them.
MBNA say Mr D has used similar adult service payment providers before in September 
2019. I have seen the companies MBNA point to on Mr Ds account records. The company 
names dont inherently indicate whether they are such service providers. So our investigator 
asked MBNA how it could say this. MBNA say the merchant code on its records indicate 
this.
The records Ive seen show the same merchant code for the disputed payments and for the 
ones used in September 2019. So, based on that, Im satisfied its likely the payments to two 
separate companies in September were most likely for adult services too.
Mr D has said he cant remember making these payments. But he hasnt challenged them in 
the same way. So, because of the records and what Mr D has said, Im persuaded Mr D has 
likely used services of this type before  even if he cant remember now.
I also note Mr D reported and claimed for similar transactions in mid-2018. MBNA replaced 
his card then and refunded him the money. Im not sure if this has any real relevance to the 
outcome of this complaint  but it does suggest Mr D should have been more vigilant than he 
has been and checked his accounts more regularly.
One event Ive found difficult to explain is why a payment to the same merchant was 
attempted after Mr D had reported the issue to MBNA in December 2019. But given 
everything Ive said above, I dont think this is enough to conclude Mr D didnt carry out the 
transactions.
Ive also thought about whether someone well known to Mr D carried out these payments 
without his consent. But Mr D has been clear that those closest to him wouldnt have done 
this.
So after weighing everything up, Im persuaded on balance Mr D or someone he gave 
express permission to carried out the transactions in dispute. That means I think Mr D 
consented to the payments and should remain liable for them.The deadline for responses to my provisional decision has now passed. MBNA have made 
no further comment. In response, Mr D has said: 
- he logged on to his account every month when he made payments using his card. 
Because of this he does not believe MBNA have no records of this  especially as he 
logged in on December 20219 at which point, he saw the transactions
- the Gold purchase was not CHIP and PIN as that option was not available at the time 
- his driving license was replaced in January 2020, and this has been verified 
- changing his VPN wouldnt have allowed Mr D to access adult services given the 
country he was in and the terrain therein 
- he can prove that on multiple occasions he was either flying or driving when the 
transactions took place  
- he missed the charges in September 2019 as he was either in credit or could not log 
on, so never reviewed to check it was the same merchant 
I must now decide this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. This is partly for the reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision  as above. And for the reasons in response to what 
Mr D has said subsequent to issuing my provisional decision. Ill set those out here. 
In response to my provisional decision, Mr D says his driving licence was replaced in 
January 2020  and this has been verified. Mr D hasnt sent anything to show this 
verification. Its also at odds with what he had told us before about when his driving licence 
was replaced  his previous recollection was that it was replaced in 2018. 
If it was replaced in January 2020, then it does of course add some plausibility to his theory 
the staff member who served him in October 2019 when he was buying gold, photocopied 
his driving license and credit card. Mr D asserts this is how his details were compromised  
and how the merchants came into possession of his driving licence and credit card copies. 
MBNAs records show Mr D said the driving licence the merchant gave to it was likely a fake. 
MBNA have also sent me a letter dated January 2020 addressed to Mr D. In summary the 
letter says MBNA have received information from the merchant  and that this information 
has been attached to the letter. It goes onto say that as the documentation matches Mr Ds 
details MBNA wont no longer deal with the fraud claim. Ive seen copies of what was 
attached and note it includes a copy of Mr Ds driving licence as provided by the merchant. 
Mr D has been inconsistent about the date his driving licence was replaced. I would also 
expect Mr D to have a much better degree of accuracy as to when he recalls this was done 
given the first time this issue came to light was in January 2020 when MBNA wrote to Mr D. 
He also discussed this matter in March 2020 with MBNA  so I would expect Mr D to know 
he had his old driving licence until January 2020 and not say the merchant copy was a fake 
or that his licence was replaced in 2018.
Given what Ive said about this driving licence matter, I still have reason enough to question the plausibility of what Mr D says about it. This in turn casts enough doubt on the credibility 
of Mr Ds testimony in relation to this matter.  
Mr D has questioned if the transaction to buy gold was done using CHIP and PIN. But I dont 
think this is an important matter here. Thats because Ive already said how the transaction 
was made wouldnt be indicative of whether the retailer would have taken copies of Mr Ds 
documents. 
Mr D says he logged on to his account every month when he made payments using his card. 
Because of this he does not believe MBNA have no records of this  especially as he logged 
in on December 2019 at which point, he saw the transactions. 
I already said in my provisional decision Mr D has always been consistent that he checked 
his statements online  but the evidence MBNA provided to me from its internal systems 
shows that wasnt the case. So, I still think its most likely he found out about the transactions 
from another source - or that he was aware of them.
My provisional decision talked about Mr Ds awareness of how he knew about changing his 
IP address - not his VPN. I accept Mr D travelled a lot for work and did so in countrys where 
adult web services were inaccessible. But changing an IP address can likely circumvent this. 
So without knowing precisely where Mr D was - including any remote terrain - at the precise 
moment a disputed transaction was being made, and what the internet connectivity in that 
exact location was like, I cant say on balance he didnt make them. 
Mr D says he missed the charges in September 2019 as he was either in credit or could not 
log on, so never reviewed to check it was the same merchant. That may be the case, but for 
the reasons Ive given above, I dont think this is enough for me to change my decision.  In 
any case, I would have expected him to at least raise these as disputed transactions when 
he discovered the more substantive ones later in the year. 
So Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. This in turn means MBNA can hold him 
liable for the transactions he disputes to having made. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman