DRN-4484673
The complaint
Mr B complains about Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) and the delays he experienced 
in settling his claim. Mr B doesnt think it was fair for Tesco to pause his claim and ask him to 
provide information he was struggling to obtain from a previous insurer.
What happened
On 15 May 2023, Mr B purchased a new motor insurance policy, underwritten by Tesco. 
Unfortunately, in June 2023, Mr B was involved in a road traffic accident and so, he made a 
claim on this policy.
But when Tesco attempted to validate Mr Bs claim, they discovered an undisclosed claim 
recorded against Mr B from May 2023, just before the policy they provided was incepted. So, 
they requested evidence from Mr B to show this claim had been closed as notification only, 
as he stated it had been.
But Mr B found it difficult to obtain this information from his previous insurer, who Ill refer to 
as E. And he didnt think it was fair for Tesco to delay the settlement of his claim because 
of this. So, he raised a complaint.
Mr B wasnt happy with the length of time it was taking Tesco to settle the claim, as he had 
outstanding finance on the car he was still expected to pay. So, he wanted Tesco to prioritise 
his claim and settle it, without the information they were asking for.
Tesco responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They recognised the difficulties Mr B 
may be facing obtaining the information from E. But they thought they were fair to wait for 
this information to be provided before they settled the claim, as it was needed as part of their 
validation process. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more. Mr B remained 
unhappy with this response and so, he referred his complaint to us.
While the complaint has been with our service, Tesco took the decision to cancel Mr Bs 
policy as he didnt provide the information they requested despite repeated requests. But I 
note after this cancellation, Mr B was able to provide satisfactory evidence that allowed 
Tesco to validate the claim and they are now looking to settle it.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought Tesco acted 
fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy, when refusing to settle the claim 
without the information they requested. And as Mr B didnt provide this despite repeated 
requests, they thought Tesco were fair to cancel the policy, although they recognised Tesco 
were now looking to settle the claim as the information had been received. So, they didnt 
think Tesco needed to do anything more. 
Mr B didnt agree, maintaining his belief it was unfair for Tesco to delay payment of the claim 
based on requiring information he was unable to retrieve from E. And so, he thought Tesco 
should be responsible for the costs hed incurred relating to the outstanding finance for the 
car. As Mr B didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr B. I recognise he 
purchased the policy with Tesco to help assist him both practically and financially in a 
situation such as the one he found himself in. So, when his car was deemed a total loss and 
Tesco delayed in settling his claim, meaning his finance on the car remained outstanding, I 
can understand why hed feel this was unfair. And, as the claim was delayed awaiting 
evidence Mr B was struggling to obtain, I can appreciate why Mr B would want Tesco to 
compensate him for the inconvenience hed been caused.
But for me to say Tesco should do something differently than they have already, Id first 
need to be satisfied theyve done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they acted 
outside of the policy terms and conditions when delaying the settlement of the claim. Or, if I 
think they did act within these, Id need to be satisfied they acted unfairly in some other way. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached my decision, I think its important for me to set out exactly 
what Ive been able to consider. I note Mr B has concerns about the finance of his car, and 
the actions the finance company took when his insurance claim with Tesco was delayed. But 
our service is handling any and all concerns relating to Mr Bs finance separately, under a 
separate complaint reference. So, I wont be commenting on, or considering, these issues 
within this decision.
I also note Mr B has raised concerns about Tescos eventual decision to cancel his 
insurance policy, even though since this decision was taken Tesco have agreed to settle the 
claim. Our service is only able to consider complaints that have been raised with a business, 
where the business have then had up to eight weeks to address the concerns within their 
own complaint procedure, as set out in the rules put in place by the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
In this situation, I can see Tescos only final response letter was issued on 2 August 2023, 
before the policy was cancelled. So, Im only able to consider the events that occurred up 
until that date. And as the cancellation and any impact it had occurred after this response, 
Im unable to consider this any further as part of this decision. Mr B is entitled to raise a 
separate complaint with Tesco about these issues should he wish to do so, and our service 
would be able to consider them separately once Tesco have had the relevant opportunity to 
respond.
So, Ive then focused on the issues our service does have jurisdiction to consider. And these 
centre around Tescos decision to delay the settlement of Mr Bs claim on the basis they 
required further information to validate it.
Ive seen Mr Bs policy schedule, which sets out the information he provided to Tesco at the 
inception of the policy. And within this, I can see that no claims or previous accidents were 
declared by Mr B. So, this information wouldve been used to calculate the risk and so the 
cost of the policy by Tesco using their own underwriting criteria.And I dont think its in dispute that Mr B did contact E to make them aware of a claim in early 
May 2023, just before he took out the policy with Tesco. From what I understand, this claim 
was reported to the CUE database by E, and this was classified as undisclosed.
So, as a claim was showing on the database and this information conflicted with the 
information Tesco were provided when the policy was incepted, I think they acted fairly when 
asking Mr B for information regarding this claim. And when Mr B explained it was notification 
only, I dont think Tesco were unreasonable to ask Mr B to provide them with information 
from E that confirmed this.
While I appreciate this wouldve been inconvenient for Mr B, had this claim been disclosed at 
policy inception as it shouldve been, this action wouldnt have been needed. And it is a 
customers obligation to ensure the information they provide to an insurer is correct. So, I do 
think Tesco were fair to expect Mr B to obtain this information himself, rather than them 
contact E themselves. 
Ive also seen that within the terms and conditions of the policy Mr B held, it explains that 
Anyone who makes a claim under this policy must provide us with any reasonable 
information we ask for that is relevant to the claim. It also goes onto explain If we request 
them, you must send us any document or provide us with any information we reasonably 
require If you do not provide us with the requested documents, we will cancel your policy.
So, I think it was made reasonably clear that Mr B had an obligation to provide documents 
that were relevant to the claim. And in this case, I think confirmation of how a previous claim 
was closed was relevant, as this wouldve impacted the premium Mr B paid and so, 
potentially the total settlement Tesco would be willing to provide. And I wouldnt expect 
Tesco to proceed any further with the claim until this information was obtained.
I also think Tesco were reasonably clear with Mr B about what information they needed, and 
why. Ive seen they wrote to Mr B to confirm this, as well as speaking to him over the phone. 
And while I appreciate Mr B says Tesco stated the claim was recorded as a fault claim, when 
he doesnt think it was, the point of retrieving information from E was to allow Tesco to 
correctly understand the claim classification. So, while I do appreciate why Mr B may feel 
this was evidence of Tesco making a mistake, I dont think it in impacted Mr B in a way 
which means Tesco should compensate him.
So, I dont think Im able to say Tesco acted unfairly, or outside of the policy conditions, 
when pausing the claim up until the date of their final response, as Mr B hadnt provided the 
information they requested. While I do appreciate Mr Bs testimony regarding the difficulties, 
he faced obtaining this from E, this isnt Tescos responsibility, nor is it an error Tesco made. 
Should Mr B be unhappy with the way E responded to him, that would be something for him 
to raise with E directly.
I understand this is unlikely to be the outcome Mr B was hoping for. But I hope Ive set out 
clearly the options now available to him, and why I dont think Tesco need to do anything 
more based on our services approach and the rules we work within.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Tesco Underwriting 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman