DRN-3698996
The complaint
Miss K complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) declined to refund £5,000 which she lost as the 
result of a scam. 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not go into every 
detail of what happened here. But, in summary, in July 2021 Miss K sent three payments 
totalling £5,000 from her Revolut account thinking she was making a legitimate investment. 
Unfortunately, Miss K was the victim of an investment scam and lost this money.
Miss K explained she was trying to save up to buy a house, and struggling financially as she 
was unable to work due to the pandemic. A trusted friend told her they had been investing in 
cryptocurrency through a company, and that they had been able to withdraw some of their 
returns. So she asked her friend to put her in touch with the company, and had a phone call 
with them. She said the person she spoke to seemed knowledgeable and professional. She 
looked at the company website which also appeared professional. It said they were 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, and Malta Financial Services Authority. She 
looked up reviews online, and whilst there were negative reviews, she said there were also 
positive reviews which said people had received their funds  albeit later than they had 
expected them. She was asked to submit proof of address and photo identification. 
Persuaded to invest, Miss K was asked to set up a cryptocurrency account, and an account 
with the company. She sent an initial two payments split over a couple of days  the first for 
£1, the second for £999. She watched the growth of her investment over a number of days 
through her account, and was persuaded to further invest. She sent a third payment of 
£4,000. She later decided to see how the withdrawal process worked, so contacted the 
company who after a few messages and a phone call stopped returning her 
communications. 
Miss K realised she had fallen victim to a scam so she contacted Action Fraud, the FCA and 
Revolut. Revolut declined to refund her losses. They said the payments were authorised by 
Miss K, and they had provided a warning at the time she made the payments. They said they 
were not expected to do more than they had, and that they had contacted the beneficiary 
bank, who confirmed later that no funds remained in the account. 
Unhappy with their response, Miss K brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened, and didnt recommend that the complaint be 
upheld. In summary, they felt that the payments were not so unusual or out of character that 
Revolut as an e-money institution (EMI) were bound to intervene. So they didnt think 
Revolut were liable for Miss Ks losses. Miss K did not agree. In summary, her 
representatives on her behalf said: 
Regardless of whether or not Revolut are an EMI, they could not see why £4,000 
could just be sent from an account without checks by them. 
They disagreed that additional checks would not have made a difference  they said 
Miss K would not have proceeded with the payments if her bank had questioned her 
and raised concerns. Hallmarks of investment scams were present such as the use 
of screen sharing software. 
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to assess Revoluts actions against what they should have done  and 
having done so I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Revolut liable for 
Miss Ks loss. So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold Miss Ks complaint. 
I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Miss K, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
Revolut should reimburse her account with the money that was unfortunately lost to the 
scammer. Ill explain why. 
There is no dispute that the transactions were authorised payments even though Miss K 
was the victim of an investment scam. She made the transfers herself and under the 
relevant regulations, and the terms and conditions of her account, Miss K is presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance. 
As our investigator said, Revolut are not a bank  they are an electronic money institution. 
What this means is that they operate differently and in a different regulatory framework to 
banks. Which in turn means there are various pieces of industry guidance, legislation and 
good practice relating to authorised push payments scams and banks which either dont 
apply, apply differently or have a more limited application than they would if they were 
banks. But, broadly speaking, I think good industry practice means Revolut ought reasonably 
to have been on the look out for unusual or out of character transactions, and they should 
have intervened to try and prevent customers falling victim to scams. 
So, I have thought carefully about whether Revolut should have recognised the payments as 
unusual or out of character for Miss Ks account, such that they should have known she 
might be at risk of fraud or financial harm. Having done so, I am not persuaded that they 
should have done. The first payment was for £1, which is of such low value that it would not 
be unusual on Miss Ks account. The subsequent payments of £999 and £4,000 were not 
inconsequential sums of money, and higher than Miss Ks normal account spending. But I do 
not consider them to be so unusual that Revolut should have had cause for concern. I say 
this particularly as they were split over a number of days  had the ramped up spending to 
the same account occurred over a few minutes or hours, it may have looked more unusual to 
Revolut. Further, the payments did not make the account go overdrawn, there was a credit 
balance on the account after the funds left it. It is not unusual to save funds in an account in 
order to make larger purchases or similar  and people often use EMIs differently than they 
do with a current account or bank. So I do not think Revolut should have picked up on any of 
these payments as sufficiently unusual that they ought reasonably to have intervened. 
I have also considered whether Revolut could have done more to try to recover the money 
once they had been told of the scam. I would expect a business to take reasonable steps to 
try and recover the money from the business it was sent to. Revolut did try to recover the 
funds Miss K sent to the receiving bank  and were able to evidence that they had contacted 
the bank on the day Miss K flagged the payments as scam payments. The receiving 
business got in touch to say that unfortunately no funds remained in the receiving account by 
the time Miss K contacted them. So, I dont think Revolut could have recovered Miss Ks 
funds here. 
Having considered all of this, I do not think it would be fair and reasonable to ask Revolut to 
refund the money Miss K lost as a result of this scam. I am sorry to disappoint her, as I know 
this has had a significant impact on her. But having thought carefully about what happened, I 
think it is the scammer and not Revolut who caused the harm here.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman