DRN-2132288
The complaint
 Mr C complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as Alphera Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In April 2019 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement with 
BMWFS.
Mr C experienced issues with the stop/start not functioning, the air conditioning not working 
and the tyre gel being out of date. He raised concerns with the supplying dealer but was 
unable to resolve matters, so he complained to BMWFS. BMWFs advised Mr C to take the 
car to his local dealership for a diagnostic. 
In October 2019 the car was inspected, and a fault was found with the start/stop system. The 
dealership suggested that a battery charge would resolve the issue so Mr C allowed the 
battery to be charged at no cost to him. The garage also found that the air conditioning 
wasnt working and that this was because the gas needed to be re-filled.
Mr C continued to experience issues with the start/stop. He asked BMWFS to rectify this, as 
well as the air conditioning and the tyre gel. He also requested a refund of the diagnostic fee 
hed paid.
In its final response, BMWFS said the issues had been resolved. It didnt respond to Mr Cs 
request for a refund of the diagnostic fee.
Mr C was unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, He said that because the attempt to repair the 
start/stop had failed, he should be allowed to reject the car.
BMWFS didnt agree. It said Mr C had never returned the car to the supplying dealer for 
repairs to be carried out and it disagreed with the finding that there had been a failed repair.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, the car should be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory 
quality is what a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as  amongst other things  the age and mileage of the car and the 
price paid. 
Where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a presumption that the fault was present or 
developing at the point of supply. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. 
If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject the car.
Theres no dispute between Mr C and BMWFS that there is a fault with the stop/start. And 
theres no dispute that this fault occurred in the first 6 months. The nub of this dispute is 
whether a repair was carried out and whether the repair was successful. 
Mr C has said that a main dealer inspected the car in October 2019 and diagnosed a fault 
with the stop/start. Hes said that the dealer carried out a battery charge to resolve the issue. 
From what Mr C has said, I understand he went to a local dealer because the supplying 
dealer was located some distance away from where he lives.
BMWFS has said it has no record of a repair being attempted. It provided comments from 
the supplying dealer in which it said the car had never been back to them for repair and it 
thought Mr C had taken the car to a different garage.
Ive looked at the extract from an email which was sent by the supplying dealer on 22 
November 2019. This says that it assumes that the battery charge dropped when the car 
was on display and that hopefully after a recharge has been carried out, this is now all fine.
Based on what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Mr C took the car to his local 
dealer for a diagnostic and repair (with the authority of the supplying dealer). This is 
consistent with Mr Cs testimony and the supplying dealers email which Ive referred to 
above supports this.
Although the supplying dealer hasnt attempted a repair itself, Im persuaded that a main 
dealer attempted repair with the supplying dealers knowledge by charging the battery. Im of 
the view that this constitutes an attempt at repair for the purposes of the relevant legislation.
I turn now to whether the repair was successful. Mr C says it wasnt, and that hes still 
experiencing issues with the start/stop. Hes said that he reported this to BMWFS in 
November 2019, after the battery had been charged. He also says he asked BMWFS to 
arrange an independent inspection but didnt hear back from them.
BMWFS hasnt disputed that theres an ongoing issue with the stop/start. So, although 
theres no further diagnostic or independent inspection report, Im persuaded on the balance 
of probabilities that the fault is ongoing and wasnt successfully repaired.
Putting things right
Taking the relevant legislation into account, and given that the repair attempt has, on the 
balance of probabilities, been unsuccessful, Im of the view that Mr C should be allowed to 
reject the car. I also think BMWFS should refund the cost of the diagnostic that Mr C paid for 
(upon production of an invoice).
Its clear that Mr C has been inconvenienced by the fault with the stop/start system not 
functioning correctly and hes made the point that he isnt achieving the MPG hed hoped for 
as a result. I think BMWFS should pay compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr C.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr CRefund the deposit and pay 8% simple interest from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
Refund all the monthly payments made by Mr C save for the retention of 1x monthly 
payment for every 666 miles covered. 
Refund the cost of the diagnostic report upon production of an invoice.
Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file
Pay compensation of £150
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman