DRN-2203194
The complaint
Mr C complains that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) increased his credit limit irresponsibly on 
a number of occasions.
What happened
Mr C applied for an Aqua credit card in July 2015. He declared that he was self-employed 
with an annual salary of £18,000. He was given a credit limit of £250. This was increased on 
a number of occasions over the next two years, sometimes by Aqua and sometimes at Mr 
Cs request. By September 2017 the credit limit on his account had increased to £4,350. Mr 
C regularly used the account and maintained monthly payments, often paying more than the 
minimum contractual amount. Mr C cancelled his card in March 2018. He repaid the balance 
in full in January 2019. 
Mr C recently complained to Aqua. He says he was unemployed and using payday loans to 
pay his credit card. He says Aqua increased his credit limit irresponsibly. Aqua didnt uphold 
his complaint so he referred it to us.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr C disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr C first applied for the credit card, he told Aqua he was self-employed and earned 
£18,000 per year. Im satisfied Aqua was entitled to rely on this information provided by Mr 
C. Aqua has shown us it carried out a credit search and this was considered along with the 
information Mr C had provided. Because on this, Aqua was happy to offer Mr C a relatively 
low credit limit. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Aqua fairly considered his application 
when he first opened the card. However, the credit limit was increased a number of times 
over the next few years. So, Ive gone on to consider whether Aqua acted fairly when 
increasing Mr Cs limit.
A number of the credit limit increases were done at the request of Mr C. And when a limit 
increase was initiated by Aqua, it always wrote to Mr C and told him what he could do if he 
didnt want the increase. So, Im satisfied Mr C was aware of and wanted the credit limit 
increases as Ive seen no evidence he told Aqua he didnt want the increases. So, I cant say 
the increases were done without Mr Cs consent or agreement.
When offering a credit limit increase, a lender must carry out checks which are reasonable
and proportionate to the amount being lent. Mr C has told us he was unemployed and 
couldnt afford the credit limit increases.  However, I cant see that Mr C ever missed any 
payments and he often paid more than the minimum monthly amount. So I dont think Aqua 
had any reason to believe Mr C was struggling financially. And though Mr C says he was 
unemployed, I cant see he ever told Aqua this or ever asked it for any help due to any 
financial difficulties. Aqua has shown that it applied its own underwriting criteria and carried 
out checks before offering each credit limit increase. And nothing came up on these checks 
which it thought meant the increases wouldnt be affordable to Mr C.
Mr C has said hed become increasingly reliant upon payday loans. Aqua has shown us it 
did look for short term credit, such as payday loans, on Mr Cs credit file but didnt find any at 
the time. I appreciate Mr C has since shown us his credit file does contain information about 
loans from short term lenders but that wasnt something Aqua saw when it checked. This is 
because some credit reference agencies wont report all the credit a customer has. This is 
unfortunate, but Aqua isnt required to check all credit reference agencies. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Aqua did the checks it was required to each time Mr C was
offered a credit limit increase. And given that Mr C was able to maintain his payments, and
has since cleared the balance, I cant find that the borrowing was unaffordable.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman