DRN-2346796
The complaint
Its been agreed AXA France IARD should accept responsibility for this complaint. To keep 
things simpler, Ill refer to AXA as the seller of the PPI in my decision.
Ms B says AXA mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In June 2001 Ms B took out a store card with PPI whilst she was out shopping. 
Amongst other things, Ms B told us that she already had some long term health problems 
when she took out the PPI.
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Bs complaint upheld it. Mainly, she didnt think Ms B 
wouldve taken out the insurance if AXA had made her aware that the policy wouldnt have 
covered accident and sickness claims for any health problem Ms B had when she bought it. 
AXA disagrees with our adjudicators view. 
Its not in dispute that Ms B had the conditions she mentioned to us. 
But AXA says that these conditions are usually manageable and wouldnt affect a persons 
lifestyle and would be treated with medication.
AXA says theres nothing to suggest the severity of Ms Bs conditions or how they affected 
her ability to work at the point of sale or after. AXA doesnt believe that the conditions were 
sufficient alone for the policy to be unsuitable as they may have never affected Ms B.
And it says Ms B wouldve been able to claim for any other condition that meant she had to 
take time off work. 
AXA said, as there was no evidence that Ms Bs medical conditions would negate her need 
for the policy, it didnt agree to uphold her complaint.
Our adjudicator sent AXA information from Ms B confirming that she did have to take time off 
work, was on medication and had to see a doctor regularly.
AXA doesnt feel enough information has been provided to say that the policy was unsuitable 
for Ms B. 
So Ms Bs complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Ms B enough clear information about the PPI for her to be able to make 
an informed choice about whether it was right for her. 
I dont know exactly what was said when the policy was sold to Ms B.
It looks like the policy Ms B bought didn't cover claims resulting from any sickness, disease, 
condition or injury which she knew about or should have known about or for which she 
received advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the 
start date.
So I think its likely that the policy wording wouldve excluded cover for accident and 
sickness claims resulting from Ms Bs medical conditions. 
All her conditions had been diagnosed in the 1990s and Ms B told us she relied on 
prescribed medication and had regular doctors appointments. 
I think the limitation on cover for health conditions is likely to have mattered to Ms B. I say 
this because I think that her conditions are all relatively serious - potentially life changing and 
life limiting. 
Ms B told us she had needed to take some time off work as a result. So that suggests to me 
that she wasnt always able to manage her conditions effectively on a daily basis. 
And I think Ms B might reasonably have expected that her health conditions could potentially 
have a significant impact on her day to day life and lead to her needing to take time off work.
In the event it doesnt look like the time she recalls actually taking off work wouldve been 
long enough for her to claim on the policy. 
But Ms B couldnt have known that this would be the case when she signed up for the PPI. 
The fact that she had some time off work supports my view that her conditions were 
unpredictable and not always manageable. 
So her expectations when she took out the policy would likely and reasonably have been 
that she might well find she needed to claim for absence from work due to her medical 
conditions. 
But I cant see how or if AXA drew information about this policy limitation to her attention, as 
it shouldve done. And, if it had, I think its likely that Ms B wouldnt have bought the policy. 
Ive taken carefully into account what AXA has said in response to our adjudicators opinion. 
But this doesn't affect my overall view. 
When Ms B agreed to the PPI she was entitled to have the main features brought to her 
attention. AXA says it agrees she had the conditions she has told us about. 
But AXA failed to ask Ms B anything at all about her health on the application she filled in to 
take out the policy  and there was nothing on it which suggested her health might be an 
important issue. Nor has AXA shown me that this was something that was discussed with Ms B at the time. 
Given her medical conditions were all ongoing, I think Ms B wouldve wanted to know they 
would be covered by taking out this type of cover. 
And if AXA had done this, I dont think its likely that Ms B wouldve thought the policy was 
right for her. 
Based on all the information I've seen, I think Ms B has lost out because of what AXA did 
wrong and it should put things right. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
I understand that Ms Bs account has been closed and the PPI policy cancelled already, so:
A. AXA should find out how much Ms B would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added. 
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms B owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B. AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms B would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when AXA works out what Ms B would have owed each month without PPI  Ms B 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms B 
wouldve owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D. AXA should tell Ms B what its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms B that relates to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. 
AXA must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Ms Bs complaint and AXA France IARD should put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman