DRN-3167600
The complaint
Mr S complains that Covea Insurance plc avoided his commercial motor insurance policy 
(treated it as if it didnt exist) and declined his claim following the theft of his van. Mr S wants 
it to pay the claim and refund his premiums.
 
What happened
Mr Ss van was stolen, and he made a claim on his policy. Covea declined the claim and 
avoided the policy because it said that Mr S had misrepresented his type of van. It said that 
if he had answered the question he was asked about the van type correctly, it wouldnt have 
offered cover. It said this misrepresentation had been deliberate or reckless. So it said this 
entitled it to decline the claim, avoid the policy and retain the premiums. 
Mr S said he had answered the question as best he could. He said hed called his broker for 
advice, and he was told that it would be OK so long as the correct registration was put in. 
But Covea said there was no record of this call. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. Covea had relied 
on the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) when 
considering the matter. But he pointed out that, as this was a commercial policy, the correct 
law was The Insurance Act 2015. 
This required the policyholder to provide a fair presentation of risk to the insurer. He thought 
Covea had asked Mr S about the type of van to be covered. And he thought Mr S had 
answered this question incorrectly. So he thought there had been a qualifying breach under 
The Act. But he thought Covea hadnt shown that this was deliberate or reckless and so he 
thought it should refund Mr Ss premiums. 
Covea replied that Mr S was aware that hed entered the incorrect information about the van, 
and it thought this was reckless. It said he had two opportunities to provide the correct 
information: when he was asked to enter the vans make and model and when he was asked 
to select the vans body type. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained, because Mr S had a commercial policy, the applicable law 
is The Insurance Act 2015. The Act says that Mr S has a duty to make a fair presentation of 
the risk. This means, unlike consumer policies, commercial policyholders have to volunteer 
information when taking out the policy. This is so the insurer has enough information to 
assess the level of risk its willing to provide and on what terms.
The Insurance Act says if Mr S doesnt do this, Covea as the insurer can take certain actions 
as long as the misrepresentation is a qualifying one. This means, the insurer would have 
done something differently had they had the correct information. 
If the qualifying breach was reckless or deliberate, and the insurer can either show it would 
have offered the policy on different terms, or not offered cover at all, its entitled to avoid the 
policy, refuse all claims and doesnt have to return the premiums.
If the breach wasnt deliberate or reckless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it 
wouldnt have offered the policy at all, but for the breach. If the insurer is entitled to avoid the 
policy, it means it wont have to deal with any claim under it. But it can only retain the 
premiums if the breach was deliberate or reckless. 
Mr S wanted to insure his tipper van and so he took out his policy on an online comparison 
site. He was then asked, how would you describe the vans body type which I think is a 
specific and clear question. The drop-down menu for the site in the first year Mr S took out 
his policy showed a tipper option. So Im satisfied that the correct information was 
available, but Mr S didnt select it. Instead, he selected van. So Im satisfied that Mr S didnt 
make a fair presentation when he first took out his policy through the comparison site. 
Covea has provided us with evidence from its underwriting guide that shows that if Mr S had 
selected the correct option, tipper, it wouldnt have provided cover. Therefore Im satisfied 
that Mr S made a qualifying breach under The Insurance Act. And so I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Covea to avoid the policy and decline the claim. 
But Covea also retained the premiums as it said the misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless. Our approach is that its for Covea to show that Mr S knew the information he 
provided was untrue or misleading. And Covea also has to show Mr S knew the matter to 
which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer or did not care whether it 
was relevant to the insurer.
Mr S said he called his broker to say that the tipper option wasnt available. But unfortunately 
theres no record of this call. However, I think this shows that Mr S was aware that this 
information was relevant to Covea, otherwise he wouldnt have raised it with his broker. 
Ive seen that the tipper option was at the bottom of the drop down list on the comparison 
website. So I think Mr S may have missed seeing it. I havent seen any evidence that Mr S 
tried to manipulate the quote to obtain a better price. And I think if Mr S knew he wasnt fully 
covered by Covea, then he would have acted to correct this during the several years he held 
the policy. 
Covea also said Mr S didnt disclose the correct model of his van to his broker. It said the 
model on his V5 registration document was different to that on his policy. But I can see that 
Mr S entered his vans registration correctly and this generated a model number which he 
thought was correct. Covea hasnt shown that the correct option was available when Mr S 
took out his policy. Its own underwriter confirmed that the registration prompted an incorrect 
model. So I dont think Covea has shown that Mr S made a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation in providing the incorrect model to his broker. 
So I think Mr S made a mistake. And I think Mr S knew the vans model was relevant to 
Covea. But Im not satisfied that Covea has shown that Mr S tried to mislead it and so made 
a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. Under The Act, the remedy is that Covea can 
avoid the policy and decline the claim because of the qualifying breach, but it cant retain the 
premiums. And so I think it was unfair for Covea to retain Mr Ss premiums after it avoided 
his policy. 
Putting things right
I require Covea Insurance plc to reimburse Mr S the policy premiums it kept when avoiding 
this policy, and any earlier policies. As Mr S has been without his money for some time, 
Covea should add interest to this refund at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date 
they were retained to the date of settlement.HM Revenue & Customs requires Covea to take off tax from this interest. Covea must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Covea Insurance plc to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman