DRN-4279072
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited - trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) - has unfairly turned down her claim under section 140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of timeshare products they financed.    
What happened
Mrs O (jointly with her husband) has held various timeshare product memberships with a 
company (who Ill refer to as D) since around 1999.
In particular, the following membership and upgrades were purchased in relation to a 
timeshare product scheme operated by D as follows:
March 2009  purchased 3,000 points at a cost of £4,260 funded under a finance 
agreement with BPF in Mrs Os sole name;
November 2011  purchased 4,000 points at a cost £4,800 funded under a finance 
agreement with BPF in Mrs Os sole name;
February 2012  purchased 10,000 points at a cost pf £6,500 funded under a finance 
agreement with BPF in Mrs Os sole name; and
November 2012  purchased 2,000 points at a cost of £3,500 funded with a deposit of 
£700 by card payment and £2,800 under a finance agreement with BPF in Mrs Os sole 
name.
On or around 23 June 2017, using a Claims Management Company (the CMC), Mrs O1 
submitted claims to BPF under the CCA. The CMC allege that D had incorrectly told Mr and 
Mrs O that the only way to exit their membership was to transfer their existing points holding 
towards purchasing a different type of membership. The CMC also thought there was a 
breach of contract due to the terms of the different membership subsequently taken by Mr 
and Mrs O. And under section 75 (S75) of the CCA, BPF were jointly liable for any 
misrepresentation and/or breach of contract. 
The CMC also gave reasons why they believe an unfair relationship exists under section 
140A (S140A) of the CCA.
In responding to Mrs Os claims, BPF thought the alleged misrepresentation and breach of 
contract didnt specifically relate to any products theyd funded. They also didnt agree with 
the allegations of unfairness, or that there were any other grounds to support Mrs Os claim, 
based upon the information provided.
Unhappy with BPFs response, the CMC referred various aspects of Mrs Os claim to this 
service. The CMC dont appear to have referred all aspects of the original claims. In 
particular, the CMC havent asked this service to consider BPFs response to the various 
allegations under S75. However, they have asked this services to consider the allegations of 
unfairness under S140A. Specifically:
both D and BPF failed to conduct a proper credit assessment of Mrs Os ability to afford 
the loan(s);
1 While the purchases in question were made in joint names of Mrs O and her husband, in each case, the finance was held in Mrs Os sole 
name. So, under the CCA, Mrs O is the only eligible Claimant.
BPF paid commission to D which was not declared to Mrs O; and
Mrs O was unduly pressured into entering into a contract with D and a finance 
agreement with BPF.
Our investigator considered all the information available. Having done so, the investigator 
thought any claim for misrepresentation in respect of the purchase completed in March 2009 
had been brought too late under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). They also didnt find any 
evidence to support any claim for misrepresentation in respect of the purchases in 2011 and 
2012. And because the claim for breach of contract related to another purchase not financed 
by BPF, they werent able to investigate that.
Our investigator also didnt agree that there was any evidence or reason likely to risk making 
the relationship unfair under S140A.
The CMC didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked for time to obtain detailed 
submissions from Counsel on the points product sold by D. The CMC subsequently provided 
a 51-page document containing Generic submissions on behalf of complainants for 
consideration in relation to Mrs Os claim.
As an informal resolution couldnt be reached, Mrs Os complaint has been referred to me to 
consider further. The CMC have also provided a six-page commentary specifically relating to 
timeshare memberships provided by D for this service to consider.
Having considered the relevant information about this complaint, while I reached the same 
outcome as our investigator, Id considered a number of aspects which I dont feel were 
previously fully addressed. Because of that, I issued a provisional decision (PD) on 4 July 
2023  giving the CMC, Mrs O and BPF the opportunity to respond to my findings before I 
reached a final decision.
In my provisional decision, I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP 3.6.4R of the FCA Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I 
believe BPFs response to Mrs Os claim was fair and reasonable given all the 
evidence and information available to me, rather than deciding the legal claim itself. 
In particular, its relevant to recognise that the CMC have not referred all aspects 
relating to Mrs Os claim to this service. So, Ive focussed specifically upon the parts 
of Mrs Os claim the CMC have referred. 
Its also relevant to stress that this services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution 
Service (ADR) is to provide mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision 
of an ombudsman can be legally binding, if accepted by the consumer, we dont 
provide a legal service. And this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the 
role of the courts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, 
this doesnt prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address in my decision every single point thats been made. And for that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
The claim under S75
Whilst this formed part of the original claim to BPF  in particular relating to 
allegations of misrepresentation and breach of contract. I cant see that these 
aspects have been specifically referred to this service. And as theres no indication 
that the CMC (or Mrs O) are disagreeing or challenging BPFs findings on those 
specific aspects, I havent considered them further.
The unfair relationship claim under S140A
A claim under Section 140A is a claim for a sum recoverable by statute which is 
governed by Section 9 of the LA. As a result, the time limit for making such a claim is 
six years from the date on which the cause for action accrued. 
However, in determining whether or not the relationship complained of was unfair, 
the High Courts decision in Patel v Patel (2009) decided this could only be 
determined by having regard to the entirety of the relationship and all potentially 
relevant matters up to the time of making the determination. In that case, that was 
the date of the trial or otherwise the date the relationship ended.
So, having considered this, I believe any relationship between Mrs O and BPF 
continues while the related finance agreements remain live. So, that relationship only 
ends once an agreement ends and the borrowing under it has been repaid.
The purchase in March 2009 was funded under a loan agreement with BPF which 
provided a total credit facility of £20,000, albeit the amount financed at that time was 
£4,260. Ive seen statements of Mrs Os account with BPF which show that this 
amount was repaid in full in September 2009. So, it appears Mrs O may have had six 
years from that point in which to make any claim under S140A in respect of the 
purchase made in 2009. But the claim wasnt submitted to BPF until June 2017. So, 
its possible a court would find that Mrs Os claim was made too late under the 
provisions of the LA. However, as the underlying credit facility itself remained live, I 
think its likely the trigger point for the six-year limit was later than this.
Any claim relating to the subsequent purchases and associated loan agreements in 
2011 and 2012 all appear to have made in time. So, Ive considered these in my 
decision.
Disclosure of Commissions
Mrs Os S140A claim is primarily based upon the status of D (as the introducer of the 
loans) and their resultant responsibilities towards her. In particular, its argued that 
the payment of commission by BPF to D wasnt declared to Mrs O. But I dont think 
the fact that BPF might have paid D commission was incompatible with their role in 
the transaction. D wasnt acting as an agent for Mrs O, but as the supplier of 
contractual rights obtained under a timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to 
any loan, based upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was Ds role to make 
an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mrs O advice or information 
on that basis. As far as Im aware, Mrs O was always at liberty to choose how she 
wanted to fund any purchase and there was no requirement or duty upon D to 
provide funding recommendations or options.
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest BPF were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is there 
any suggestion or evidence that Mrs O requested those details from BPF. As I 
understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by BPF to suppliers (like D in 
this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%. And on that basis, Im not persuaded its likely that a court would find that any non-disclosure and payment of 
commission created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A, given the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The allegations of pressure
The CMCs letter suggests that Mrs O was pressured into entering into the timeshare 
and finance agreements. But they havent provided any explanation or evidence to 
support that claim. 
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, and in 
the absence of any explanation or evidence, I think its very difficult to say that Mrs O 
agreed to each purchase at the time of each sale when she simply didnt want to. I 
havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that she went on to say something to D, 
after each purchase, that suggests shed agreed to the purchases and finance when 
she didnt want to. And she hasnt provided a credible explanation for why she didnt 
subsequently seek to cancel the purchases within the 14-day cooling off period 
permitted each time. 
If its suggested she only agreed to the purchases because she was pressured, I find 
this aspect difficult to reconcile. I havent seen anything substantive to suggest Mrs O 
was obviously harassed or coerced into the purchases.  And because of that, Im not 
persuaded that theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mrs O made any 
decision to proceed because her ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have 
been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection 
from Unfair Trading Regulations (CPUT)
Credit Assessment
There are certain aspects of Mrs Os claim that could be considered outside of 
S140A. In particular, in relation to whether BPF undertook a proper credit 
assessment. In their response to Mrs Os claim, BPF said she was required to 
complete a finance application as part of the loan documentation at the time of each 
sale. This application contained details of her annual income and was used to 
underwrite the loans and confirm they were affordable for her.
BPF havent provided specific evidence of their credit assessments or details of Mrs 
Os credit file or credit score at the time. And given the passage of time, its possible 
that information is no longer available. If I were to find that BPF hadnt completed all 
the required checks and tests  and I make no such finding  I would need to be 
satisfied that had such checks been completed, they wouldve revealed that loan 
repayments werent sustainably affordable for Mrs O in order to uphold her complaint 
here. However, Ive not seen any information about Mrs Os actual position at the 
time. And as account statements for Mrs Os loans with BPF dont appear to suggest 
that she struggled to maintain repayments, I cant reasonably conclude the loans 
were unaffordable for her. And given each loan now appear to have been fully repaid, 
there doesnt appear to be any evidence of loss here either.
Summary
As Ive explained above, this service is only able to consider complaints aspects 
specifically referred to it. In Mrs Os case, this relates to BPFs response to her 
claim(s). And in particular, it appears the CMC have only asked that we consider the 
aspects that relate to allegations of unfairness under S140A.
I have considered the various additional submissions provided by the CMC. In 
particular, the generic submissions prepared by Counsel together with the CMCs 
overview of timeshare products provided by D. However, as these were generic 
points and not specific to Mrs Os own purchases or recollections, I dont think they 
offered much help in making factual findings in Mrs Os case.I want to reassure Mrs O that Ive carefully considered all the information and 
evidence thats been provided. Having done so, I cant reasonably conclude that 
BPFs response to her claim was unfair or unreasonable based upon everything Ive 
seen. So, I dont intend to ask BPF to do anything more here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BPF have acknowledged receipt of my PD and confirmed they have nothing further to add.
The CMC submitted a request to this service for copies of any documents and evidence 
relied upon in reaching my PD. That information has been provided but no further comment 
or evidence has been received by this service.
In these circumstances, and in the absence of anything further to consider here, Ive no 
reason to vary from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman