DRN-2922128
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked an account payment.
What happened
Mr M says he tried to make a payment out of his account in December 2020, but it was 
blocked by Lloyds. He says he called the telephone number he was given and in total spent 
over two and a half hours trying to speak to Lloyds and sort matters out. Mr M says Lloyds 
compensation offer doesnt go far enough and says the payment was blocked for no reason.
Lloyds says Mr Ms payment was held for security reasons and is entitled to do so. It accepts 
Mr M spent an unacceptable length of time in trying to speak to it and has apologised. Lloyds 
has offered £50 compensation and £18 for Mr Ms call costs.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought Lloyds had made an 
appropriate compensation offer. The investigator thought Lloyds was entitled to place 
security blocks on the transaction and thought the compensation offer was line with what this 
service would order.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says the effect of that offer is that Lloyds values his 
leisure time at £20 an hour.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Lloyds has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision.
Banks and building societies must have fraud and security measures in place to protect its 
money and its customers money. I have no doubt Mr M appreciates that fraud is a major 
problem. I accept there are occasions when legitimate customers and legitimate transactions 
are made subject to such fraud measures. And Im satisfied that Lloyds account terms and 
conditions make clear that some transactions may be subject to such measures. So, Im 
satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to block Mr Ms transaction when it had security concerns 
and was acting in line with account terms and conditions by doing so. It follows that I dont 
find the transaction was blocked for no reason as Mr M says or that Lloyds made a mistake 
by doing so.
I accept this was Mr Ms money and that he would have been caused inconvenience by 
Lloyds decision. But I cant fairly order compensation for that part of Mr Ms complaint for the 
reasons I have explained.
There is no question here that Lloyds didnt deal appropriately with Mr Ms attempts to speak 
to it about the removal of the account block. I can see that Lloyds accepts the call waiting 
time was unacceptable. But Im satisfied Lloyds has apologised for its mistake and offered 
what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation amount in total of £68. I think that offer is 
in line with the type of award this service orders and fairly takes into account that Mr M didnt 
suffer any financial loss.
I appreciate Mr M says Lloyds offer doesnt fairly take into account the loss of his leisure 
time, but I dont think a value can be placed on such matters in any event. And I have 
explained that I find the overall compensation offer appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of £68. Mr Ms acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman