DRN-3956562
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service provided by Zurich Insurance PLC following a claim he 
made on his motorhome insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C took out a motorhome insurance policy with Zurich in March 2022. Mr Cs insurance 
was purchased through a comparison website. During the application process Mr C was 
asked to provide a value for his vehicle. Mr C recorded £22,000. Mr C has explained this is 
what he paid for his motorhome in June 2020. 
Once Mr Cs application for insurance was accepted, he was sent policy documents 
including a policy schedule and statement of fact. The policy schedule recorded £22,000 for 
the vehicle value. The statement of fact recorded the Estimate current value as £22,000. 
Mr C was also sent a policy booklet. The policy booklet explained that in the event of a 
claim:
2.2.1 What we will pay 
If your vehicle is insured on an agreed value basis, the maximum amount we will 
pay is the value declared on your policy schedule, less any policy excess which is 
applicable (see sections 2.8 and 2.9); otherwise market value will apply. 
The policy booklet defined Market value as The cost of replacing your vehicle with another 
of a similar make, model, age, mileage and condition as at the time of the loss or damage, 
up to the value stated in your policy schedule. 
In June 2022 Mr C reported his motorhome stolen. Zurich accepted Mr Cs claim and 
provided a settlement value of £22,000. Zurich explained Mr Cs claim had been determined 
on a market value basis. Mr C was unhappy with this amount and complained to Zurich. Mr 
C said I have been looking for a replacement and they seem to be around £35,000.  
Zurich referred Mr C to the policy terms which explained the market value would be up to 
the value stated in your policy schedule. Because of this, Zurich didnt offer to increase their 
settlement offer for Mr Cs claim. 
Mr C brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He was unhappy with the market 
value offered by Zurich, and the explanation about how this had been calculated. Mr C 
provided this service with four different valuations for vehicles of a similar make and model 
to his motorhome that had been stolen. The values provided were £35,500, £35,995, and 
two values for £36,995. 
The investigator found that the service provided by Zurich wasnt in line with what wed 
expect, and recommended Zurich increase their offer to £36,372 (the average value of the 
four values provided by Mr C), pay 8% per annum simple interest on the difference between 
the £22,000 offered and the new value of £36,372, and pay £250 in recognition of the trouble 
and upset caused to Mr C because of the delay in receiving the correct settlement amount. 
Mr C accepted the investigators findings. Zurich didnt agree to the investigators findings 
and asked for an ombudsman to determine this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint for 
broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point its because I dont believe it has affected what I think is 
the right outcome.
Zurich say that Mr Cs policy was taken out on market value basis. They say that the 
definition of market value makes it clear that the policy would only pay up to the value stated 
in your policy schedule. I think a reasonable interpretation of the term market value would 
imply that Zurich would look at the selling prices of vehicles of a similar make, model, age, 
mileage and condition as at the time of the loss or damage, and use this as a basis for 
calculating the amount that should be paid in the event of a claim. 
But the definition of market value in Mr Cs policy booklet goes further than this. It severely 
restricts how much would be paid in the event of a claim, depending on what has been 
recorded in the policy schedule. 
In order to determine whether Zurich have acted fairly by limiting the definition of market 
value in this way, Ive considered what Mr C was told about the importance of the value 
provided in the policy schedule. 
The policy schedule recorded £22,000 for the vehicle value. This document also included a 
number of endorsements providing further information about the limitations of cover. There 
was no other explanation about what the vehicle value would mean in the event of a claim, 
and the importance of its accuracy for this reason. I dont think Zurich did enough to highlight 
the limitation of the policy, and how the vehicle value provided in the policy schedule would 
directly impact on the amount paid out in the event of a claim.
  
Ive also seen that the statement of fact recorded the Estimate current value as £22,000. I 
think it was reasonable for Mr C to have relied on the statement of fact as documenting the 
estimate current value of his car only. We wouldnt expect a customer to have detailed 
knowledge of the trade market, and access to trade guides which would provide for a more 
informed estimate. I also havent seen evidence of any guidance or instruction given to Mr C 
on how to calculate the estimate. So I think its reasonable that he provided the figure that 
hed paid for his motorhome two years previous as an estimate value.  
As the vehicle value recorded in the policy schedule had a direct impact on the maximum 
Zurich would pay in the event of a claim, Zurich needed to do more to make this limitation 
clear to Mr C. I havent seen any evidence of Mr C being reasonably informed about the 
importance of the vehicle value recorded in the policy schedule, and what it would mean for 
the maximum hed receive in the event of a claim. Because of this, I think its fair for Zurich 
to determine Mr Cs claim using the definition in the policy booklet- without including the term 
up to the value stated in your policy schedule.
We would usually refer to trade guides to determine complaints about vehicle valuation. 
Trade guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely (but not actual) selling 
prices. They use advertised prices and auction prices to work out what likely selling prices wouldve been. We expect insurers to use trade guides (where possible) when valuing a 
vehicle for claims purposes.
Because of the type vehicle held by Mr C, the trade guides wed usually refer to havent 
provided information relevant for determining this complaint. So in the absence of relying on 
trade guides, Ive considered the evidence provided by Mr C of vehicles of a similar make 
and model to his motorhome. The values provided by Mr C include £35,500, £35,995, and 
two values for £36,995. I think its fair to use these values to determine an average 
settlement amount that should be paid for Mr Cs claim. 
As Mr C has been awaiting for settlement of his claim to be concluded for some time now, I 
also think its fair for Zurich to offer an additional £250 in recognition of the upset and 
inconvenience caused to Mr C because of the delay in receiving the correct settlement 
amount for his claim. This amount also recognises the upset caused to Mr C in his dealings 
with Zurich over a period of time where he had already provided Zurich with the evidence 
needed to properly deal with his claim. 
Putting things right
Zurich Insurance PLC is directed to:
- increase their offer to £36,372 (the average value of the four values provided by Mr 
C), 
- pay 8% per annum simple interest on the difference between the £22,000 paid and 
the new value of £36,372 from the date the previous settlement was paid to the date 
the additional amount is paid*; and
- pay £250 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Zurich to deduct tax from this interest. Zurich should give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Zurich Insurance PLC must follow my 
directions for putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman