DRN-3612768
The complaint
Mr A and Miss E complain that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) avoided Miss Es 
car insurance policy (that is, treated it like it never existed) and turned down her claim.
Mr A is a named driver on Miss Es policy.
What happened
Miss E took out a car insurance policy with Calpe in April 2019 and renewed it in April 2020. 
In May 2020, Mr A was involved in a road traffic accident in the car and so Miss E made a 
claim on the policy.
Calpe turned down Miss Es claim and said she was liable for all costs connected with the 
claim. It said Miss E didnt disclose a TT99 motoring conviction Mr A had to the broker 
through whom she took out the policy, both when she took it out and when she renewed it. 
Calpe said this was deliberate or reckless and so it turned down Miss Es claim and kept her 
policy premiums.
Unhappy with this, Mr A and Miss E complained to us. In her second view on                      
Mr A and Miss Es complaint, the investigator who looked at it upheld it. She thought        
Miss Es failure to disclose Mr As motoring conviction was careless rather than deliberate or 
reckless. 
Calpe disagrees and maintains Miss Es failure to disclose the conviction was reckless. So 
Mr A and Miss Es complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr A and Miss Es complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
If a consumer doesnt do this, the insurer has certain remedies, as long as the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA calls a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it wouldve offered the policy on 
different terms, or not at all, if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Calpe thinks Miss E failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she didnt disclose that Mr A had been given a TT99 motoring conviction in March 2017. 
Ive looked at the questions Miss E was asked, both when she first bought the policy and at 
renewal, about driving bans and disqualifications. I think these questions were clear and 
specific. Miss E didnt disclose Mr As motoring conviction, so I dont think she took 
reasonable care.
Because I dont think Miss E took reasonable care, I now need to look at what Calpe 
wouldve done if Miss E had answered its questions correctly and disclosed Mr As motoring 
conviction. 
Calpe has shown us its underwriting guidance on this. It says a TT99 motoring conviction 
mightve been acceptable on referral to its underwriting team. Calpe says that, on receipt of 
a breakdown of what Mr As TT99 was made up of, its underwriting team would have 
assessed whether to accept or decline the risk. Mr A says his TT99 motoring conviction is 
made up of speeding offences. Calpe says if this was the case, it wouldve accepted the risk 
with a 20% loading  that is, Miss Es policy premiums wouldve increased by 20%.
Since I dont think Miss E took reasonable care when she took the policy out or when she 
renewed it and since Calpe has shown it wouldve entered into the policies on different terms 
if Miss E had disclosed details of Mr As motoring conviction, I think Miss Es 
misrepresentation was a qualifying misrepresentation for the purposes of CIDRA.
So, in line with CIDRA, I now need to look at whether Miss Es misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless, as Calpe says it was. If Miss Es misrepresentation isnt deliberate or 
reckless, under CIDRA it will be classed as careless.
Miss E says she didnt know Mr A had a TT99 motoring conviction either when she bought 
the policy in 2019 or when she renewed it in 2020. Thats because she says she wasnt in a 
relationship with Mr A in 2017, which is when he got the motoring conviction. Calpe says it 
doesnt think its acceptable for a policyholder to simply state they were not aware of the 
named drivers details and that this wouldnt be treated as reckless. Calpe goes on to say:
The policyholder should have been aware and details a policyholder provides on behalf of 
their named driver should not be treated with a different standard than the details the 
policyholder provides about themselves.
In the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable of Calpe 
to treat Miss Es misrepresentation as reckless (or deliberate). I think the reason Miss E has 
given for not knowing about Mr As motoring conviction is plausible and reasonable. Despite 
what Calpe says, I dont think it has shown, as it needs to under CIDRA, that Miss E either 
knew the information she gave at the time she took the policy out and at renewal was untrue 
or misleading or that she didnt care if it was untrue or misleading.
From this it follows that I think Miss Es misrepresentation should be classed as careless 
under CIDRA, not deliberate or reckless. CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases and I dont think Calpe has acted fairly and reasonably by treating 
Miss Es policies as if they never existed and not paying her claim. But Calpe has shown 
that, although it wouldve given Miss E cover had she disclosed Mr As motoring conviction 
and had it been shown that it was made up of speeding offences, it wouldve increased her 
premiums for the policies by 20%. 
CIDRA says that, where there has been a careless misrepresentation and there has been a 
claim, if an insurer would still have sold the policy but would have charged a higher premium, it may reduce proportionately the amount it pays on the claim (as set out in Schedule 1 to 
CIDRA). I think thats the fair and reasonable outcome here. So Calpe should reinstate   
Miss Es policies and pay her claim in line with the other terms and conditions of her policy in 
2020. But Calpe can reduce proportionately the amount it pays on the claim by the 
percentage of the higher premium it says it wouldve charged. Mr A must, though, first give 
Calpe evidence that his TT99 motoring conviction is made up of a build-up of points from 
speeding offences.
I understand Miss E and Mr A have started making payments towards the cost of the claim. 
Calpe should pay them simple interest on each of the payments theyve made at the rate of 
8% per year from the date they made a payment to the date of settlement, subject to a 
proportionate deduction.
Calpe should also remove all references to Miss Es two policies being voided from all 
internal and external databases. And Calpe should confirm to Miss E in writing that neither of 
her policies have been avoided or cancelled.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Miss E and Mr As complaint and, provided Mr A gives 
proof that his TT99 motoring conviction is made up of a build-up of points from speeding 
convictions, I direct Calpe Insurance Company Limited to:
Reinstate the policy Ms E took out in May 2019 and remove any reference to it being 
avoided from any internal and external databases. 
Reinstate the policy Ms E took out at renewal in 2020, remove any reference to it 
being avoided from any internal and external databases and settle Miss Es claim 
under it proportionately using the formula set out in Schedule 1 to CIDRA for 
proportionate settlements (and in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
Miss Es policy). 
Pay Miss E and Mr A simple interest on each of the payments theyve made so far to 
settle the claim at the rate of 8% per year from the date they made each payment to 
the date of settlement, subject to a proportionate deduction using the formula set out 
in Schedule 1 to CIDRA. 
Write to Miss E to confirm that neither of her policies from 2019 and 2020 has been 
voided or cancelled, so that she can show this confirmation to future insurers, if 
needed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Miss E to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman