DRN-4409323
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a store card payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in 1998.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mrs H was sold the PPI at the same time as applying for the store card in a shop.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagrees with the investigators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on a 
balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have happened given the 
evidence that is available to me, and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs H says she didnt know that PPI had been added to the account, meaning it was added 
without her knowledge or consent.
Ive seen a copy of the application form that was competed at the time. There is a separate 
section on the form for PPI. A box has been ticked to apply for the policy and Mrs H has also 
signed in that section.
Theres an x to the side of the PPI wording, in addition to other areas of the form. Mrs H 
says she was just asked to complete the parts that the sales assistant had marked. She 
says that the box was ticked after she had completed the form as instructed.
Ive thought very carefully about this point. However, on balance, Im not persuaded it is 
sufficient to prove that Mrs H wasnt given a choice about signing for the policy. It is not 
uncommon for sales advisers to highlight areas on a form requiring completion. This, in my 
view, doesnt mean that a discussion about PPI hadnt taken place or the optional nature of 
the product not made clear.
Mrs H says she was made redundant twice and the fact that she didnt claim on the policy at 
those times demonstrates that she didnt know she had it. Overall, I dont think this is 
sufficient for conclude that the policy was added without her knowledge as there can be 
other reasons why someone didnt make a claim. As might be expected, the policy provided 
cover for involuntary unemployment. From what Mrs H has said, it appears she was re-
deployed by her employer at the time of the first redundancy, rather than being made 
unemployed. And the second time, she took voluntary redundancy rather than re-locate with 
her job, which is not involuntary unemployment.
I understand that Mrs H feels very strongly that there was no mention of PPI at all before she 
filled out the form. I have no doubt that she has provided her genuine recollection of events. 
But the sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory has faded 
somewhat.
Beneath the PPI wording there is another section of the form about buying another form of 
insurance. The box for this hasnt been ticked and so Mrs H wasnt sold this additional 
insurance. Had the sales assistant acted in the way Mrs H suggests, I might have expected 
this other product to also be attached to the store card account.
From what we know of the sales process at the time, the PPI was usually presented as 
optional, and I havent seen anything to persuade me that something different happened in 
this case. 
Based on the available evidence, I consider it more likely than not that Mrs H decided to buy 
the PPI, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Mrs H says she wasnt asked about her employment or financial status at the time to 
establish if the policy was suitable for her. In fact, she wasnt even asked to complete the 
parts of the form relating to her job.
This was what is called a non-advised sale, or information only sale. This means that, as 
the sales assistant wasnt making a personal recommendation that Mrs H should buy the 
policy, they didnt need to check that the policy was suitable for her. So thats why she 
wasnt asked any questions of that nature.
But AXA did need to provide sufficient information for Mrs H to make an informed decision 
about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Ive said already that I think Mrs H probably decided to take out the policy. So, I consider it 
reasonable to conclude she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. I think she would have known something about it  that it would have covered her 
monthly card repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I doubt shed have decided to take it out without knowing anything 
at all about it.
And I think Mrs H would have known that there was a cost for the policy, because I doubt 
shed have thought it would be free.
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information about the PPI as it should have. 
But the question is whether Mrs H has lost out as a result, or whether she would have 
bought the policy anyway.
The policy contained some exclusions, for example it did not cover pre-existing medical 
conditions. But Mrs H did not have any pre-existing health problems.
Mrs H would have received some sick pay from her job. But the policy would have paid out 
in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than she would have received full pay for. Mrs H has also said that she had some savings. But having the policy would have 
allowed her to retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have 
been a difficult time. 
The evidence about Mrs Hs situation at the time of the sale shows that the policy was not 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. And in those circumstances, I consider it more 
likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
As I think that she probably had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that 
further information would have caused her to change her mind. So, she is no worse of as a 
result of anything AXA may have done wrong, so theres nothing that AXA needs to do to put 
things right.
In relation to unfair commission and profit share, that isnt something I can look at here as 
AXA is the insurer and not the lender, as has been previously explained. But I note that Mrs 
H has told us she has accepted a Plevin offer from the lender.
I would like to explain though, in response to Mrs Hs comment that she raised commission 
with the lender in 2014, that the commission that Plevin relates to is the commission that 
the insurer (AXA) was paying to the lender for PPI policies. It is not about the type of 
commission or incentives that individual staff may have received, which is what Mrs H was 
querying back in 2014.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman