DRN-4193236
The complaint
Mr H complains that Experian Limited trading as Experian has recorded a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) on his credit file in error.
What happened
In February 2021 a business Ill called L acquired a debt in relation to a mobile phone 
contract that had been closed at default. L wrote to Mr H at the address it was given by the 
business that sold the debt and went on to start legal action to obtain a CCJ. A court 
awarded the CCJ in February 2022 and it was recorded on Mr Hs credit file. 
Last year, Mr H complained that the CCJ didnt belong to him and asked Experian to remove 
it from his credit file. It was noted that the date of birth recorded for the CCJ contained the 
correct date and month but the wrong year. 
Experian raised a dispute with L and asked it for comment. L didnt agree for Experian to 
remove the CCJ and said Mr H should make contact to discuss the it if he remained of the 
view it belonged to someone else. Experian didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint and solicitors 
acting on his behalf referred it to this service. 
An investigator reviewed Mr Hs complaint but didnt ask Experian to make any changes. 
The investigator contacted L and it provided copies of correspondence sent to Mr H along 
with the personal information it holds in relation to the account. The details provided included 
Mr Hs name, his address, a mobile phone number and date of birth. As noted above, the 
date of birth contained the right date and month but the wrong year was recorded. The 
investigator said Experian had raised a dispute with L and it had responded to request Mr H 
make contact directly to discuss the account. The investigator didnt ask Experian to amend 
Mr Hs credit file and didnt uphold his complaint. 
Solicitors acting for Mr H responded to say that a person of the same name with similar 
details had been living at the same address as him and that the debt belonged to them. As 
Mr Hs solicitors didnt accept the investigators view, his complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the available information to decide whether Experians decision not to remove 
the CCJ was fair. I appreciate Mr Hs solicitor has told us that someone with very similar 
details lived at the same address for a period of time and has since moved abroad. But I 
think the information on file reasonably links the account to Mr H and, as such, Im not 
persuaded it was unfair for Experian to decline to remove the CCJ from his credit file. Ill 
explain why. 
Experian receives data thats recorded on Mr Hs credit file from various organisations. The 
details of the CCJ were recorded following legal action by L. The CCJ was approved at the 
same address as Mr H with a date of birth that is almost identical to his own. Experian has 
noted there are other accounts with a slightly different date of birth on Mr Hs credit file. In 
addition, our investigator contacted L directly and asked it to supply some supporting 
evidence to show why it had recorded this CCJ against Mr H. 
L has supplied various pieces of correspondence, including a Notice of Assignment sent to 
Mr H in April 2021 to confirm the new arrangements for the debt and details of the personal 
information recorded by the original business that sold the account. I note that the original 
business gave L a mobile phone number that it had on file for Mr H. And that mobile phone 
number matches the one Mr H has supplied to us when bringing his complaint. Taking 
everything Ive seen into account, Im satisfied that except for what appears to be a mistake 
of one year in the record of Mr Hs date of birth, the remaining information associated with 
the account strongly points to it being in his name. I havent been persuaded its 
unreasonable for Experian to record the CCJ on Mr Hs credit file. 
Whilst Experian is recording the CCJ on Mr Hs credit file, its not the business thats 
reporting it  thats L. When a consumer raises concerns theyve been incorrectly matched to 
an entry on their credit file a credit reference agency should take steps to dispute it with the 
reporting business. In this case, Experian has provided systems evidence that shows it did 
dispute the CCJ recorded on Mr Hs credit file with L. But no permission to remove it was 
provided and L asked Mr H to make contact directly to discuss his account if he felt the CCJ 
was being recorded incorrectly. Im satisfied that was the correct process for Experian to 
follow and I havent been persuaded it acted unfairly by declining to remove the CCJ without 
permission from L. If Mr H hasnt done so already, he has the option of taking the dispute up 
directly with L, in line with the response Experian issued.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but as Im satisfied Experian dealt with his enquiries and 
complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman