DRN-2270358
The complaint
Mr C complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) mis-sold a 
finance agreement to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr C, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the finance agreement should not have 
been misrepresented to Mr C. If it was, and if Mr C would not have entered into the 
agreement had it not been, then Id think MBFS were responsible and Id ask them to take 
some action.
Here, I am not persuaded its most likely this finance agreement was misrepresented to     
Mr C. I say that because:
the finance agreement makes it very clear that the mileage limit agreed is 15,000 
miles per year. There are no options in the agreement for this, or other terms in the 
contract, to be renegotiated midterm; 
Mr C says he was told by the dealership that the mileage could always be adjusted 
but I dont have any further corroboration of that, and the finance agreement makes 
no mention of it;
Mr C has provided evidence that he was insured for 12,500 annual miles. I think its 
fair to say this is what he expected to complete. But I think its also likely that he 
would seek to set up the finance agreement for an annual mileage that more than 
covered what he was expecting to complete. I say that because I think its reasonable 
to suggest the cost of paying for a higher mileage limit at the inception of the deal 
would be much less than he would incur in excess mileage charges at the end of the 
agreement. Im persuaded 15,000 miles would have been a reasonable limit to set to 
avoid end of term charges.
So, I dont think it would be fair to suggest the agreement was misrepresented and Im not 
asking MBFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman