DRN-3551458
The complaint
Mr N has complained that when he made a claim on his breakdown cover for a replacement 
key, RAC Insurance Limiteds agent damaged his car. 
What happened
Mr N bought his membership cover online on 13 March 2021. He also added advanced 
cover which provided key replacement.
Mr N lost his key to his cherished classic car and made a claim to RAC on 13 May 2021. 
RAC appointed a locksmith to attend him, supplying a replacement key and programming it. 
Mr N said the locksmith removed a protective cover from the alarm module under the 
passenger seat in order to programme the replacement key, But the locksmith said he 
couldnt replace the cover given he didnt have the right tools with him. 
Mr N also complained that the alarm fob no longer beeps when arming or disarming the 
alarm. 
Mr N was very dissatisfied with this as this left the alarm module uncovered and at risk of 
water or moisture damage. Mr N also complained that the locksmith didnt adhere to Covid 
safe procedures in failing to wear a face mask and using protection on the seats. Mr N also 
said the locksmith attended in dirty clothing and accessed his car leaning across both seats. 
Mr N also thought the locksmith took short cut measures, didnt have a work light, and 
merely used the torch on his mobile phone to see what he was doing. 
Mr N asked RAC to rectify the damage to his car. He explained it has meant his car has to 
be covered at all times to ensure the alarm module was free from water or moisture. 
RAC asked Mr N to provide a quote for the costs of replacing the cover. But Mr N said he 
was unable to provide any, so RAC said it couldnt consider this consequently. RAC also 
said the locksmith said there was water under the passenger seat when he attended Mr Ns 
car. RACs technical team also said it believed the cover was fitted as this make and model 
of car has issues with water ingress. Covering the control unit only gives limited protection.
 
So as Mr N remained dissatisfied, he brought his complaint to us. The investigator was of 
the view that as Mr N couldnt provide any quotes for reattaching the cover that RAC didnt 
need to do anything more.
Mr N disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, I do appreciate how distressing all this has been for Mr N and I appreciate and 
understand that this is a very cherished classic car. But my role is to assess whether RAC 
has done anything wrong and if so whether it has done enough to put things right.
 
On the evidence from RAC, I consider it appears most probable on the balance of 
probabilities that the cover of the alarm unit needed to be removed to reprogramme the new 
key which is what this locksmith did. Theres no dispute that the locksmith didnt have the 
right tools to replace it. 
I consider it was reasonable for RAC to ask Mr N for the invoice fitting this cover in the first 
place since Mr N had explained he had had it fitted professionally only eight months 
previously. Initially Mr N said the garage fitted it, so there was no reason for RAC to think Mr 
N wouldnt be able to provide the required costs of fitting it again. However, it turned out Mr 
Ns son fitted it under advice from a garage. That obviously means Mr N bought it 
separately.  So again, I consider RACs request to have an invoice or a quote to refit the 
cover to be reasonable. Mr N hasnt offered any reason why he cant provide the invoice of 
what his son fitted to his car eight months before this incident. RAC remain of the view that it 
is happy to consider the matter again once it knows the possible costs of doing so which it 
has reasonably asked Mr N to provide. I dont think therefore RAC needs to do anything 
further here until or if Mr N produces evidence of the cost of fitting a new cover unit.
RACs technical team explained that it seems the make and model of Mr Ns car does have 
a history of water ingress issues. The cover merely attempts to protect the control unit. It 
offers only limited protection. If water was to accumulate it could nonetheless breach the 
cover protection. It confirmed that the locksmith did find water under the passenger seat of 
Mr Ns car in any event.
As regards the alarm fob issues, RAC said it doesnt have the owners manual for Mr Ns car 
to comment on the central locking systems. The locksmith wouldnt have been aware of any 
fob issues before either. Neither would it be expected that a reprogrammed key would affect 
any functions of a central locking system. It asked Mr N to provide a diagnostic report 
confirming the alarm issue was caused by the locksmith and have said it would then be 
happy to investigate his concerns further. 
RAC said it provided feedback to the Key Replace team to ensure all locksmiths were aware 
and complying with the relevant Covid guidelines. This is what I would have expected them 
to do, so I find thats reasonable. 
So, I consider it is now for Mr N to provide the details of the cover which RAC has requested 
if he wishes RAC to deal with the replacing of the cover and the alarm fob issue. So, until 
that happens, I dont consider RAC has to do anything further here. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Rona DoyleOmbudsman