DRN-3909110
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C complain that AWP P&C SA declined their travel insurance claim and about its 
service. My references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Mrs and Mr C and their family have travel insurance through a bank account. The insurer is 
AWP.
On the morning Mrs and Mr C and their family were due to travel, their daughter said she 
had a loss of taste and change of taste since the night before. Mrs and Mr C say as that was 
a symptom of covid-19 they followed government and NHS guidance so their daughter went 
into isolation immediately and they applied on-line for a PCR test kit. As a result of their 
daughters symptoms they had to cancel their trip. When they got the PCR test result back a 
few days later the result was negative. They claimed on the policy for the trip cancellation.
AWP said the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms as their daughter hadnt been 
diagnosed with covid-19 and they had no medical certificate from a doctor confirming she 
was unfit to travel as a result of a medical condition.
Mrs and Mr C complained to us. In summary they said:
AWPs requirement for a doctors certificate was unreasonable as government and 
NHS guidance was to isolate if one had covid-19 symptoms so their daughter 
couldnt go to see the GP.
The policy said AWP wouldnt pay claims if they didnt follow advice from the 
government or other official authority. That policy term conflicted with the policy 
requirement that they get the doctors certificate.
The policy covered cancellation due to being in quarantine by order or requirement of 
a government or public authority, which was their daughters situation.
AWP took too long to deal with their claim.
They want their claim paid and compensation for their stress caused by AWPs delay 
in dealing with their claim.
Our investigator said AWP had fairly declined the claim. Mrs and Mr C disagreed and 
wanted an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the complaint . I said:
The relevant industry guidance says AWP must handle claims promptly and fairly and must 
not unreasonably decline a claim.
Mrs and Mr C have complained to us that AWP delayed in dealing with their claim. But Ive  
seen no evidence theyve complained to AWP about that issue. If Mrs and Mr C want to 
pursue that issue they will first need to complain to AWP and give it the chance to respond 
before we can consider that part of their complaint.
This decision is about whether AWP fairly and reasonably declined the claim, and I dont 
think it did. Ill explain why.
The policy says under the cancellation or curtailment section that AWP will pay up to the 
policy limit for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs for cancellation of 
a trip due to:
1. The death, bodily injury or illness of:
a. You;
b. Any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with;

Note:
 For a (and) b above, this will include being diagnosed with an epidemic or 
pandemic disease, such as Covid-19.
Under the same section one of the special conditions says AWP requires:
6.c. a medical certificate from a doctor to confirm that you or your travelling 
companion are not fit to travel.
As the PCR result test for Mrs and Mr Cs daughter was negative for covid-19 there was no 
medical evidence she had a diagnosed illness. And she didnt have a medical certificate 
from the doctor that she was unfit to travel with her symptoms of illness. So under a strict 
interpretation of the above policy terms there was no cover for the claim.
Ive also considered whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. AWP hasnt disputed 
that the British government and NHS guidance as at 8 January 2022 was that children with 
symptoms of covid-19 should stay at home, have a PCR test and avoid contact with people 
until the test result was known. The guidance said a loss or change to sense of taste, which 
Mrs and Mr Cs daughter had, was one of three main symptoms of covid-19. The guidance 
also said a GP should be contacted if the child had specified additional symptoms, which 
Mrs and Mr Cs daughter didnt have.
Given the government and NHS guidance I think it was reasonable for Mrs and Mr C not to 
take their daughter to the GP. To do so would have been contrary to the guidance in force at 
the time. And I think its more likely than not that, even if the GP had seen their daughter on 
the day of the trip cancellation, the GP would have given a medical certificate that she wasnt 
fit to travel as loss of taste was one of the key symptoms of covid-19 in children.
But the eventual PCR test was negative so Mrs and Mr Cs daughter wasnt actually ill. And 
theres no cover under this section of the policy for suspected illness. So I dont think the 
claim was covered even on a fair and reasonable basis under the above policy terms.
However, as Mrs and Mr C mentioned, the cancellation or curtailment section of the policy 
also says AWP will pay up to the policy limit for any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs for cancellation of a trip due to:
2. You or any person with whom you are travellingbeing held in quarantine by 
order or another requirement of a government or public authority, based on their 
suspicion that you or they, specifically, have been exposed to a contagious disease 
(including an epidemic or a pandemic disease such as COVID-19). This does not include any quarantine that applies generally or broadly to some or all of a 
population, vessel or geographical area, or that applies based on where you are 
travelling to, from or through.
The policy defines quarantine as:
Mandatory confinement intended to stop the spread of a contagious disease to 
which you or someone booked to travel with you has been exposed.
I think the government and NHS guidance to isolate if one had symptoms of covid-19, which 
was to stop the spread of the contagious disease, was an order or another requirement of a 
government or public authority, to quarantine. Mrs and Mr Cs daughter, based on her 
specific symptoms as an individual, was complying with these requirements.
The policy term says cover doesnt include quarantine that applies generally or broadly to 
some or all of a population. But, as the requirement to quarantine only applied to people 
who had government/NHS specified symptoms of covid-19, I dont think its fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances to conclude that the situation which Mrs and Mr Cs 
daughter was in amounted to quarantine that applied generally or broadly to some or all of a 
population.
I think Mrs and Mr Cs claim is covered as their daughter was in quarantine as required by 
the above policy term.
AWP should pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits, plus interest as 
Ive set out below.
Reponses to my provisional decision
Mrs and Mr C accepted my provisional decision. 
AWP didnt agree. In summary it said suspected illness was the cause of the claim and Id 
acknowledged that suspected illness wasnt covered under the policy. Also, the government 
and NHS guidance to self-isolate if experiencing symptoms until covid-19 was confirmed 
wasnt specific to only Mrs and Mr Cs daughter so the quarantine applied generally or 
broadly to some or all of the population.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWPs response hasnt changed my mind to uphold this complaint. As I explained in my 
provisional findings above, as the trip cancellation was due to Mr and Mrs Cs daughters 
suspected illness I dont think the claim is covered under part (1) of the cancellation or 
curtailment section which required illness of the insured or a person they are travelling with. 
But I still think the claim is covered under part (2) of the cancellation or curtailment section 
which doesnt require the insured or a person they are travelling with to have been 
diagnosed with an illness. That part of the policy provides cover if Mr and Mrs Cs daughter 
is in quarantine by order or another requirement of a government or public authority, based 
on their suspicion that, specifically, she had been exposed to a contagious disease which 
included covid-19. Mrs and Mr Cs daughter was in quarantine due to her symptoms, in line 
with the government and NHS guidance that her symptoms meant there was the suspicion 
she had been exposed to the contagious disease of covid-19. AWP hasnt disputed my provisional findings that the government and NHS guidance to 
isolate if one had symptoms of covid-19 was an order or another requirement of a 
government or public authority, to quarantine. Although the government and NHS guidance 
didnt only apply to Mrs and Mr Cs daughter, as the requirement to quarantine only applied 
to people who had government/NHS specified symptoms of covid-19, I still dont think its fair 
or reasonable in the circumstances to conclude that the situation which Mrs and Mr Cs 
daughter was in amounted to quarantine that applied generally or broadly to some or all of a 
population.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I think a fair and 
reasonable outcome is for AWP to pay the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
limits, plus interest as Ive set out below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require AWP P&C SA to pay Mrs and Mr Cs claim in line with the remaining policy terms 
and limits. Interest* must be added at 8% a year simple from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement.
*If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs and Mr C a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman