DRN-3867938
The complaint
Miss T complains that that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) rejected her 
claim that she had been mis-sold a car.
What happened
In September 2021 Miss T acquired a second hand car at a cost of £28,450. This was 
funded in part by a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. The car was some 2  years old 
and had covered 36,369 miles.
Miss T complained to the dealer that the car had not been serviced as promised and the 
second key was missing. She also said the car had been advertised as having covered 
33,274 miles, but it had done 36,369 miles. She also pointed out some marks and scuffs 
which she said the dealer had offered to repair.
She complained to BMWFS that the advert had been misleading due to the wrong mileage 
being reported and there was no record of the service the dealer had claimed to have had 
carried out. It responded in May 2022 to say the service had been carried out but the dealer 
didnt have access to the manufacturers electronic data system to record it. It also noted the 
mileage shown on the sales invoice was correct.
Miss T brought her complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators. Initially she thought it should be upheld due to the lack of evidence that the 
service had been undertaken, but BMWFS supplied further information which showed that it 
had.
Miss T didnt agree and said she still didnt have a record of the service. She also supplied a 
photo of a filter which she said showed that it hadnt been changed by the dealer. She said 
the dealer hadnt fixed the cosmetic issues.
I issued a provisional decision which read as follows:
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BMWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Miss T claims there was misrepresentation by the dealer by including an inaccurate mileage 
figure in the advert. I dont agree. I do not know how long the car was held by the dealer 
before it was sold. However, I think it reasonable to presume the mileage was accurate at 
the time the advert was created, but that it was used subsequent to that. I would have had 
concerns if the mileage shown on the sales invoice was wrong, but I have seen nothing to 
suggest that this was the case. The information about the mileage was available to Miss T 
before the sale and I do not consider there was any misrepresentation.
I have noted the lack of a second key. I see the advert is silent about this and I have read 
the various exchanges between Miss T and the dealer. I believe it is clear that Miss T was 
led to believe the second key would be supplied. Later the dealer said that it had bought the 
car with only one key and it would try and get the second one. I believe the dealer would 
have sought the second key when buying the car and would have known that it only had one 
at the time of the sale. It is normal for a car to come with two keys and given this was not the 
case I would have expected the dealer to have drawn attention to this. It is not mentioned in 
the advert and from the exchanges I do not think it was brought to Miss T attention before 
the sale. As such I consider BMWFS should ensure a second key is provided at no cost to 
Miss T.
On the matter of the service which the dealer said it caried out I understand the MOT was 
done at the same time and there is a record of that. The dealer has also provided evidence 
to support its claim that the service was done, but it hasnt supplied details of the work 
carried out. I think it only fair that Miss T is given a full record of the work carried out even of 
it is not added to the electronic history of the car.
On the matter of the cosmetic damage I have not seen any evidence that would allow me to 
conclude that there was an agreement with the dealer that any further work would be done. 
The car was second hand some wear and tear is to be expected and I cannot say the car 
wasnt of a satisfactory standard. So I do not consider I can uphold this aspect of Miss Ts 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss T accepted my provisional decision. BMWFS supplied a checklist which the dealer says 
shows what work had been done to the car prior to sale. It also said that the dealer had not 
agreed to provide a second key. 
The record of work done does not appear to show a full service but rather a detailed 
inspection which includes a number of service items. Having reviewed it I am satisfied that it 
sets out in some detail the work which was carried out. However, I consider BMWFS should 
arrange for written confirmation from the dealer to be sent to Miss T that a service as 
required by the manufacturer was carried out by it prior to the sale plus details of the work 
done. If it is unable to provide confirmation that a service as required by the manufacturer 
was carried out BMWFS should pay Miss T £250.
As for the matter of the key I have noted that the dealer says it didnt offer to provide one. 
However, as I have set out in my provisional decision it is usual for cars to come with two 
keys and if one was missing I would expect it to have brought that to Miss Ts attention. 
Therefore I consider BMWFS should arrange for a second key to be provided.Putting things right
Miss T should be given confirmation of the service carried out and a second key.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to arrange for Miss T to receive written confirmation that a service as required by the 
manufacturer was carried out shortly prior to the sale with details of the work done. If that 
cannot be provided it should pay Miss T £250. It should also arrange for a second key to be 
provided to Miss T.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman