DRN-3726176
The complaint
Ms R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc has not met its obligations in regard to 
a transaction she made on her credit card to get out of a Timeshare agreement.
What happened
In October 2015 Ms R had a Timeshare type agreement which she wanted to get out of. 
Around that time she came into contact with a company who said it provided Timeshare 
Relinquishment services and it could get her out of the timeshare agreement for a fee. Ill call 
this company Firm A. So Ms R paid Firm A by credit card two transactions to a total of over 
£1450. She also made a bank transfer in relation to this service to an accountancy firm for 
around £5000. All in all she paid £6531.75 to get out of her timeshare agreement.
Ms R was still paying the Timeshare company in 2020. She says she never received any 
services or refund from Firm A, and it didnt do what it said it would. So she complained to 
NatWest in 2021.
NatWest considered the matter and decided that it didnt have any liability in these 
circumstances and told Ms R it wouldnt be giving her any refund in relation to the money 
she paid here.
Ms R feels this is unfair, so she brought her complaint to this service. Our Investigator 
considered the matter but found that NatWest hadnt treated her unfairly in its handling of the 
matter. Ms R still hasnt had her money back and is still unhappy and accordingly this 
complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should make it very clear that this decision is not about Firm A or other firms mentioned or 
involved here. This is because these companies arent within the jurisdiction of this service. 
This decision is solely about what NatWest did or didnt do in relation to its obligations under 
the relevant legislation. And it should be remembered NatWest is only involved in this issue 
because it managed Ms Rs credit card account which she used to make some of these 
transactions in this case. I hope this distinction is clear. I note that Ms Rs representatives 
make very few arguments in its submissions to this service with regard to what NatWest 
itself has done wrong here.
I should add that Ive little doubt about what Ms Rs says when she says that Firm A has 
treated her badly. But NatWest can only be held responsible for what it has done or should 
have done or under any obligations it has. Its liability is not endless or total. So I hope Ive 
made this important distinction sufficiently clear.
Ive considered everything that has happened here and unfortunately for Ms R her complaint 
about NatWest fails. I shall explain why. There are two possible avenues for NatWest in 
such disputes. Either contesting the transactions under the Chargeback process operated by 
the card scheme or by being liable under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 
for short).
could NatWest challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
 
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute about a transaction, as Ms R 
does here, NatWest (as the card issuer) can attempt to go through a chargeback process 
operated by the card scheme.
I dont think NatWest couldve challenged the payments on the basis Ms R didnt properly 
authorise the transaction, given that Ms R freely accepts she made part of her overall 
payment for this service from Firm A by using her NatWest credit card. And Im not 
persuaded it has been wrongly applied to her account.
Secondly the Card Scheme used here has rules as to how and when Chargebacks can be 
raised to challenge disputed transactions. The rules are clear on these timeframes and I can 
see that between when Ms R made the transaction in 2015 and when she raised the issue 
with NatWest in 2021 there is a substantial time span. And this timespan is significantly 
outside the timeframes set out in these particular card scheme rules. As it is so far out of 
time and thus didnt have a reasonable prospect of success, I dont think NatWest has 
treated Ms R unfairly by not pursuing a chargeback once it was on notice of a dispute here. 
how about the CCA?
Ms R used her credit card with NatWest for these two transactions. This means NatWest has 
certain responsibilities to Ms R which arise from the relevant law, specifically, Section 75 of 
the CCA. There is no need for me to go into great detail about how this operates, but in 
summary Section 75 has the effect, if certain preliminary criteria are met,  of allowing Ms R 
to hold NatWest liable for breaches of contract by Firm A, or misrepresentations made by it 
in relation to the agreement made. This legislation has the effect of meaning that not only 
could NatWest be held responsible for the transactions it was party to, but also the balance 
transfer it wasnt party to and also any applicable consequential loss.
It is clear that Ms R is very much of the opinion that Firm A breached the contract made and 
particularly made misrepresentations to her which led to her losing out. But before deciding 
on whether there is breach or misrepresentation here there are some requirements set out in 
the Act which also have to be met before these issues can be considered. One of these tests 
is around financial limits and having considered these I think on balance that Ms Rs claim 
meets the financial limits criteria.
Another test in the Act for a valid claim is that there must be a debtor-creditor-supplier 
arrangement in place. This is often referred to as the DCS relationship or simply DCS. This 
means that there needs to be the necessary three-party relationship. This often looks like:
A debtor (who makes repayments to the creditor for the borrowing for the purchase)
A creditor (who must send the borrowed amount direct to the supplier)
A supplier (who must provide what was purchased to the debtor)
This means the person who paid for the goods (the Debtor) should have a contractual 
relationship with whoever supplied the goods (the Supplier) as well as with the credit 
provider (the Creditor). And this is the crux of the complaint here. Ms R and her 
representatives say that the DCS relationship is in place so NatWest can be held liable for 
any breach of contract by Firm A.However it is clear from her credit card statements that although Ms R has provided the 
contract she had with Firm A she actually paid a different company the money using her 
credit card. Ill call the company she paid Firm B. So clearly there is a fourth party here and 
so DCS appears on the face of it to not be in place.
However the Act also provides under Section 187 that consumer credit agreement shall be 
treated as entered into under pre-existing arrangements between a creditor and a supplier if 
it is entered into in accordance with, or in furtherance of, arrangements previously made 
between persons mentioned in subsection (4)(a), (b) or (c).
And subsection 4 states goes on to explain that persons are:
(a)the creditor and the supplier;
(b)one of them and an associate of the others;
(c)an associate of one and an associate of the others.
And Associates are tightly defined in section 184 of the Act. This definition includes a 
number of sub-definitions, of which the most likely to be made out in this case due to what 
we know is the following:
A body corporate is an associate of another body corporate
(a)if the same person is a controller of both, or a person is a controller of one and persons 
who are her associates, or she and persons who are her associates, are controllers of the 
other.
Ive considered this definition and surrounding relevant parts of the legislation and Ive seen 
no persuasive evidence that Firm A and Firm B were Associates as under this strict 
definition. Nor have I seen persuasive evidence that Firm B acted as a payment processor 
for Firm A. So Im satisfied that DCS is not intact here. And accordingly NatWest cannot be 
held responsible for these losses irrespective of whether breach of contract or 
misrepresentation can be made out.
Ms Rs representatives have made some arguments which I shall address for clarity. It 
points to evidence which shows Firm A act as agents for another Firm (Firm C). It also has 
provided evidence which shows that Firm A and Firm B share address, accountants, 
paperwork, phone numbers and a number of other apparently similar shared facilities. I dont 
dispute this. However none of these arguments demonstrate that the required definition of 
Associate is met here.
I note that Ms Rs representatives havent sought to provide evidence of who the controllers 
are of the Firms or to make the arguments about Associates at the crux of this matter. For 
this complaint to have been successful there would need to be persuasive evidence of who 
the controllers were of these Firms and that there was persuasive evidence of them fulfilling 
the criteria for Associates in order for DCS to be made out. This service has considered this 
matter deeply through the lens of this complaint and of similar complaints and the required 
level of evidence hasnt been found or submitted by Ms Rs representatives. And Ms Rs 
representatives have seen similar decisions to this one in the past and havent provided 
further supporting evidence to show that the Firms in this case are Associates or share 
Controllers if thats the case. And as S75 claims are like claims it is for claimants to show 
that the claim is made out.
Accordingly there is no persuasive evidence that NatWest has treated Ms R unfairly. And as 
I set out at length at the beginning of this decision I have to be persuaded that NatWest have 
treated Ms R unfairly here for it to be held liable. And Im not persuaded that there is persuasive evidence to show that NatWest should have come to a different conclusion in its 
review of this S75 claim.
Ms Rs representatives have put arguments forward, but these simply dont demonstrate that 
the requirements in the Act have been met. The fact that there is some sort of linkage 
between firms is not in dispute. But for this complaint to be upheld against NatWest I have to 
be persuaded that it has done something wrong in its consideration of the claim put to it 
under the Act. And for that to be the case I need to be persuaded that the definitions of 
Associates as defined under the Act and the other requirements of the Act have been met in 
these particular circumstances. This is the crux of the matter. And Ms Rs representatives 
have not shown this even though this has been explained to them.
Accordingly this complaint does not succeed as Im not persuaded that NatWest has treated 
Ms R unfairly.
I do appreciate that this isnt the decision Ms R wishes to read. And Im sorry she finds 
herself in this position. But this isnt NatWest fault. Ms R is at liberty to not accept this 
decision and thus not be bound by it. However this final decision does bring to an end this 
services involvement in this dispute between Ms R and NatWest on this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about National Westminster 
Bank Plc. It has nothing further to do on this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman