DRN-2025148
The complaint
Mrs I has complained about the way Santander UK Plc dealt with her request to suspend a 
drawdown facility on a mortgage account held jointly with her son, Mr I. Mrs I says that 
Santanders actions have caused her financial disadvantage, which she wants Santander to 
put right, either by paying her 50% of the £95,000 withdrawn by Mr I, or by allowing Mrs I to 
be sole owner of the property and remove Mr I from the mortgage account.
Mrs I has been assisted in the complaint by a family member, but I will refer to Mrs I 
throughout.
What happened
Mrs I and Mr I have a joint mortgage with Santander, taken out in June 2006. The initial 
advance was £70,000, with a £100,000 credit limit to enable further drawdowns to be made. 
In June 2008 Mr I and Mrs I asked to increase their credit limit and this was agreed, allowing 
them to draw down a further £148,778 (giving a total credit limit as at June 2008 of 
£216,000).
Over the years various drawdowns have been made, as well as credits. These were 
generally in writing, which required both parties to the account to sign. But drawdowns can 
also be carried out online, and in that case, one party to the account can action the request.
On 2 November 2018 the first online drawdown request was made when Mr I applied for 
£70,000. This was agreed on 5 November 2018 and a letter was sent to Mr I and Mrs I to 
confirm this.
After receiving the letter Mrs I went into her local branch in a distressed state, accompanied 
by her daughter. She explained that she was unhappy about the withdrawal and that she 
wanted Mr I off the mortgage and replaced as joint borrower with her other son. A call was 
made to the mortgage centre and it was confirmed to Mrs I that an online drawdown can be 
carried out by either party to the mortgage. Santander explained that if there is a dispute 
between the parties, then Mrs I could instruct Santander in writing to confirm that future 
drawdowns need to be made in writing, requiring both signatures.
The adviser recalls that Mrs I and her daughter were told that Mrs I needed to put in writing 
that future drawdowns must be on the authority of both account holders. She suggested that 
a letter could be drafted there and then and faxed over to the mortgage centre. But the 
adviser says Mrs I said she wanted to discuss this with family members and left the branch.
Mrs I says that she was never told by the branch staff that a request for a block would have 
to be put in writing. 
Between 24 December 2018 and 3 February 2019 there were the following withdrawals from 
the account against the credit limit:
24.12.18 (approved 27.12.18) £70,000
08.01.19 (approved 09.01.19) £25,000
03.02.19 (approved 04.02.19) £19,000
The first two withdrawals were made by Mr I, and the third was made by Mrs I.
In June 2019 Mrs I visited the branch again where online access to the credit limit was 
blocked immediately without the need for Mrs I to have put this in writing. Mrs I told 
Santander that she thought a block had been in place from November 2018 and complained.
Santander accepted that what Mrs I was told in June 2019 (that an immediate block could be 
put on the account) contradicted what shed been told in November 2018 (which is that this 
had to be done in writing). But Santander couldnt understand why Mrs I hadnt prioritised 
giving written instructions to block online access to the credit limit in November 2018, when 
the branch staff had offered to assist her with this.
The withdrawals had been made by a party to the mortgage, so Santander didnt think it had 
done anything wrong in allowing them. But Mrs I said shed never been told when she was at 
the branch in November 2018 that the block on the account had to be done in writing. 
Santander paid Mrs I compensation of £100 for this.
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, the complaint was brought to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, where it was considered by one of our investigators. Initially he didnt 
think we should consider the complaint, as it was a joint account and we didnt have Mr Is 
consent. But the investigator changed his mind and thought that we could consider what had 
happened in the light of how it affected Mrs I alone. The investigator didnt think Santander 
had done anything wrong. He thought it was unlikely that the branch adviser had not passed 
on what shed been told by the mortgage centre about the need for a written request to block 
online access to the account.
Another investigator looked at the complaint, and reached a different conclusion. She 
thought that, once Santander was aware of a dispute between Mrs I and Mr I, an immediate 
block should have been put on the account. The investigator thought Santander should pay 
a further £400 compensation, making a total of £500, including the £100 already paid. The 
investigator asked Santander if there was anything further it was prepared to do in relation to 
splitting the mortgage borrowing so that Mrs I wasnt liable for Mr Is borrowing. Santander 
said that it was not willing to offer anything other than the additional £400 and that it would 
be in contravention of regulations to split the borrowing in the way the investigator 
suggested. 
Mrs I didnt think £400 compensation was a fair outcome. Mrs I says that Mr I is still 50% 
owner of the property and cant be removed from the mortgage due to Santander not taking 
the right action at the right time. Mrs I wants Santander to put this right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will explain first that I dont have any power to order Santander to remove Mr I from the 
mortgage account. In order to do this, Mr I and Mrs I would need to apply jointly to 
Santander (along with any additional party to be substituted for Mr I on the mortgage  if that 
is the intention) for a transfer of equity and change of parties. Any such application would be 
subject to meeting Santanders lending and affordability criteria (and Mr Is agreement). So 
although Ive noted that this is what Mrs I would like to happen, its not something I have any 
power to do. I also cant tell Santander to do anything in relation to the mortgage account 
that would result in Santander being in breach of its regulatory obligations.I can see from what weve been told that Mrs I has been very distressed about whats 
happened.  Mr I hasnt participated in this complaint (and given the nature of the complaint, 
this is understandable). This means that I dont know what he might have to say about the 
matter, so its not appropriate for me to comment on where all the withdrawals made by Mr I 
and Mrs I were spent or who did, or did not, benefit from the money. If the way the money 
was used is in dispute, thats something Mrs I and Mr I will need to resolve between 
themselves, hopefully amicably or as a last resort in court. But its not something I can get 
involved with. My role is to look at what Santander has done.
This complaint turns on what Mrs I was told (or understood  or misunderstood) when she 
visited the branch in November 2018. The branch adviser recalls Mrs I being in a very 
distressed state, having learned of the withdrawal by Mr I of £70,000 a few days earlier. The 
branch advisers recollection is clear that she explained that Mrs I would need to confirm in 
writing that withdrawals would need both signatures  relaying what shed been told by the 
mortgage centre. 
Mrs I disputes ever being told that the request to block the account must be made in writing. 
But I think its more likely than not, given that this was information specifically given to the 
adviser by the mortgage centre, that Mrs I was told this. I think Mrs I, in her distressed state 
(and with English not being her first language) may have misunderstood the position and 
thought that the account had been blocked. (Looking at what happened in February 2019, 
Im not entirely persuaded this is the case, and I will discuss this further below.)
Mrs I has told us that she thought when she left the branch in November 2018 that the block 
was in place and that any future withdrawals could only be made in writing on the joint 
signatures of both parties. 
But if this is what Mrs I believed, it is contradicted by her own actions in February 2019 when 
she withdraw £19,000 by making an online request herself. Given this, I am hesitant to 
conclude that Mrs I believed the account had been blocked in November 2018  because if 
that was her belief, then Mrs I wouldnt also have thought that she could make an online 
withdrawal a few weeks later.
But I agree with the investigator that it ought to have been clear to Santander when Mrs I 
came into the branch in November 2018 in a very distressed state that thered been a falling 
out between Mrs I and her son. In the circumstances, I think at the very least a dispute 
marker should have been put on the account which may have prevented any future 
withdrawals. Even though Santanders terms and conditions specify that this type of request 
must be made in writing, Santander was able to override this in June 2019 and so could 
probably have done so in November 2018.
I know this isnt the outcome Mrs I was hoping for. I fully understand that Mrs I will be 
unhappy that I cannot provide her with the redress she is asking for. But for the reasons set 
out above, I think the redress Santander has offered is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
In addition to the £100 already paid, Santander has agreed to pay further compensation of 
£400 for any distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs I by not adding a marker to the 
account in November 2018. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and I 
dont intend to order Santander to do anything more.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, Santander 
UK Plc must pay Mrs I compensation of £400, in addition to the £100 already paid. I make 
no other order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman