DRN-2810951
The complaint
The estate of Mr B (the estate) has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC failed to pay an 
invoice for Mr Bs funeral costs.
What happened
Mr B held accounts with Lloyds when he passed away in June 2019. Mr B had appointed an 
executor in his will, to take on the legal responsibility for handling his estate in the event of 
his death. In my decision, I shall refer to the executor appointed as the estate.
The estate arranged Mr Bs funeral and asked the funeral directors to send an invoice for the 
costs to Lloyds for payment from Mr Bs accounts with them. The funeral director sent an 
invoice to Lloyds dated 22 July 2019. But Lloyds said that they didnt receive it, so no 
payment was made.
The estate told Lloyds that the invoice amount was still outstanding and arranged for the 
invoice to be sent again. Lloyds said that they were sent an estimate rather than an invoice. 
So, Lloyds wrote back to the funeral director on 2 September 2019 to tell them this. They 
said that they could only make payment upon receipt of an invoice
On the same day (2 September 2019), Lloyds received a copy of the grant of probate from 
the estate. The estate asked Lloyds to close all Mr Bs accounts with them and send the 
closing balance to them so that the proceeds could be distributed in accordance with Mr Bs 
will. 
On 14 October 2019, the funeral director wrote to Lloyds again. They enclosed a copy of the 
outstanding invoice and asked for it to be paid. Lloyds replied on 18 October 2019. They 
said that they couldnt pay the invoice as Mr Bs accounts had been closed. They suggested 
that the funeral director contact the estate for alternative payment.
The estate contacted Lloyds on 20 November 2019 to complain that the outstanding funeral 
invoice hadnt been paid. The estate told Lloyds that the funds had been distributed, 
according to the will, but the invoice was still outstanding. The estate said that this was due 
to mistakes made by Lloyds. 
Lloyds investigated the circumstances of the complaint. They couldnt find a record of 
receiving the original invoice. They also couldnt find any of the letters between them and the 
funeral director. They said that they had only received an estimate from the funeral director 
but couldnt find a copy of this.
Lloyds replied to the estate in writing on 11 February 2020. They apologised for the delays in 
dealing with the complaint and reflected this by sending compensation of £50. They didnt 
agree that the invoice wasnt paid as a result of an error theyd made.
The estate wasnt happy with Lloyds reply. So, decided to refer the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator agreed that Lloyds had made mistakes here. But didnt think that it would be 
reasonable to ask Lloyds to meet the costs of the funeral. She said that Lloyds no longer 
held any of the estates money as the accounts had been closed. She said the outstanding 
invoice should be paid from the estate proceeds.
The estate didnt agree with our investigators view. The estate said that because the funds 
had now been distributed, as the will instructed, funds were no longer available to meet the 
invoice cost. The estate asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Much of this complaint centres upon Lloyds claim that they didnt receive the funeral 
directors original invoice dated 22 July 2019. Ive seen a copy of the invoice issued by the 
funeral director. Its content appears to be clear and states Amount now due. But I did 
notice that although the Lloyds branch street and town address details appeared to be 
correct, the post code used was different to their published one. I cant see anything to 
suggest that Lloyds definitely received the original invoice at the time, and I cant reasonably 
hold Lloyds responsible for any failure to receive an item sent by post. They wouldnt have 
had any control over this.
Ive seen a copy of a letter sent by Lloyds to the funeral directors dated 2 September 2019. 
In that letter, Lloyds refer to the funeral directors letter of 23 August 2019. Unfortunately, Ive 
not seen a copy of the funeral directors letter and Lloyds are unable to trace a copy of it in 
their own records. The estate has referred to Lloyds letter of 2 September 2019 and said that 
it was poorly written. I agree that the letter is not very clear.
Lloyds file notes say that they were meant to pay the funeral costs. But they couldnt as the 
original bill was an estimate and not an invoice. I havent seen a copy of the estimate from 
the funeral director referred to  Lloyds havent been able to provide this. Ive only seen an 
invoice. On balance, I think its more likely than not that Lloyds did receive a copy of the 
invoice at some point. But its not clear when this was. It may be possible they have 
mistakenly thought this invoice was an estimate.
Lloyds file notes show that Mr Bs accounts with them were closed on 2 September 2019. All 
proceeds were sent to the executor of the estate. So, I can understand why Lloyds wouldnt 
be able to pay the outstanding invoice after this date. They no longer held the funds to do 
that. Although unfortunate, this wouldnt have stopped the estate from being able to pay the 
outstanding amount from the proceeds of the accounts at Lloyds. But the estate said that the 
funds have now been distributed to the beneficiaries. So, they are no longer available to pay 
the outstanding bill.
Ultimately, its the responsibility of the executor(s) of an estate to pay any outstanding tax, 
debts or bills from the estate proceeds before distributing the proceeds of the estate to any 
named beneficiaries. Its considered good practice to place a statutory notice for creditors in 
the press allowing two months for any claims to be made before any distribution. If this isnt 
done, the executor(s) can be held personally responsible for any subsequent claims that 
arise. If such a notice is placed, any future claims against the estate are then made against 
the beneficiaries instead. If unsure, its normally recommended that the executor(s) of an 
estate seek legal advice before distributing any remaining funds.
I completely understand that the estate will have found the whole experience both frustrating 
and distressing. I do think that Lloyds couldve done more here. And, its unfortunate that 
their file records appear to be incomplete. Lloyds have admitted that they were slow in 
handling the complaint. They have paid compensation of £50 to reflect this and I think that 
this is fair in the circumstances here.
But, ultimately, I agree with our investigator. I cant reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for 
not paying the outstanding funeral director bill. Lloyds paid out the estate funds to the 
executor. So, it was the estates responsibility to check that all outstanding bills had been 
settled before distributing the remaining funds. I cant see that Lloyds own actions 
specifically led to any financial loss to the estate.I realise that the estate will be disappointed by my decision, but I wont be asking Lloyds to 
do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold the estate of Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman