DRN-3178363
The complaint
Mr T complained because NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, charged him late payment fees on 
his credit card.
What happened
Mr T opened a NewDay account in January 2015. At that point, statements were produced 
around 24th of each month, with the payments being due on 11th of the following month.
On 30 April 2018, Aqua wrote to tell Mr T that it was changing the day the statements were 
produced, with a related change to the day payments would be due. The letter said Mr T 
could get in touch if he wanted to opt out of the change. Aqua also sent a text reminder on 8 
May. His monthly statements also set out the due dates. Mr T didnt contact Aqua to opt out, 
so the dates were changed.
Mr Ts June 2018 statement was issued on 5 June, with a payment due date of 22 June. For 
the first couple of months, Mr T paid in line with the new payment dates, and no late fees 
were charged. 
But from August onwards, Mr T didnt generally pay by the new payment due dates. He did 
pay by the due dates in December 2019, January 2020 and June 2020. But for the other 
months when Mr T didnt pay by the due dates, Aqua charged Mr T £12 late payment fees 
each month.
In March 2021, Mr T checked his recent statements and realised that hed been charged late 
payment fees. He contacted Aqua, asking why it hadnt contacted him, and was told it was 
because he wasnt in arrears. Mr T thought Aqua should have contacted him, and 
complained.
In Aquas final response, it said that as a gesture of goodwill, it had refunded the last three 
late payment fees, totalling £36. It also changed Mr Ts monthly payment date to 25th of each 
month, in line with his request. There was a misunderstanding about when this was to start, 
but Aqua refunded the fees charged in connection with that.
But Aqua didnt agree that it should have contacted Mr T when he repeatedly paid late. It 
explained that it had notified him twice of the change in payment date in 2018, and the date 
was on every monthly statement. And it said that as Mr Ts account was never in arrears by 
the date of the next monthly statement, its collections team wouldnt have got in touch with 
him.
Mr T wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said hed been unaware of the fees, 
and thought Aqua should have contacted him to inform him of the fees, and look at how they 
could be prevented.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He said that the fees charged were in line 
with the terms and conditions, and the published tariffs of the account, and were in line with 
standard industry practice for late payments. He said that if Mr T had checked his monthly 
statements at any time after September 2018, hed have seen the payments and could have 
spoken to Aqua to resolve the issue sooner.
Mr T didnt agree. He said he hadnt had a text from Aqua for almost three years after June 
2017, and he believed Aqua should have contacted him to inform him of the fees. He said no 
extra work had been done to justify charging fees. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts account, which he accepted when he opened the 
account on 7 January 2015, explain the charges which Aqua is allowed to make under the 
agreement. Its that agreement which sets out the charges, and Aqua doesnt, as Mr T 
believes, have to tell him how much extra work a late payment has involved. Section 5 of 
that agreement is about charges. It says, among other things, that:
5.2  We will charge:
-£12 each month in which a minimum payment amount that should have been paid 
remains outstanding.
So Aqua had the power to make the £12 charges, and Mr T had accepted that by accepting 
the account terms and conditions when he opened the account.
I do understand that Mr Ts unhappiness is that he says he wasnt contacted to tell him about 
the fees. But monthly statements were available online each month, and Mr T was notified 
by email and text when these were available to view. Ive checked a copy of Mr Ts 
statement. For example the May 2021 statement says, on the first page, preceded by a red 
exclamation mark:
 Default fees £12
And on the third page it says:
We are sending you this notice in compliance with the Consumer Credit Act 1974 because 
you have incurred default sums on your account with us.
 Late fee  £12
 This notice does not take account of default sums which we have already told you about 
in another default sum notice, whether or not those sums remain unpaid.
This was what Aqua was required to do in terms of notifying Mr T. So Aqua did everything it 
had to, in terms of notifying Mr T about the late payment fees.
Mr T said he didnt receive any texts from Aqua after 2017. He also said he didnt receive 
either the 2018 postal letter, or text, about the change to the billing date. But theres no 
regulatory requirement for Aqua to have sent Mr T a text or phoned him, in addition to this 
notification. Aqua told us that its Collections team would only get involved and contact a 
customer if they went into arrears. But Mr T wasnt in arrears, because his late payments did 
arrive before the time of the next statement. I see that Aqua refunded three of the late payment fees, and also the fees which were 
charged when the payment dates were being sorted out in April 2021. It also changed the 
monthly payment date to the date Mr T wanted. 
I recognise that Mr T is unhappy that he was charged late fees for a long period, and I do  
understand why hes upset. But these were set out on his monthly statements. And even if 
Mr T didnt receive any of the emails, or texts, which Aqua sent each month to notify him that 
his monthly statements were available, that doesnt make any difference to the outcome 
here. Aqua had provided them, and its reasonable to expect that Mr T would have known 
there would be monthly statements on his account. And if hed checked them before March 
2021, hed have become aware of the fees and could have contacted Aqua to sort things 
out.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman