The complaint
Mr G says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mr G was sold the policy in 2005 when he telephoned Capital One to activate a new credit 
card. The PPI remained on Mr Gs account until 2009. In total Mr G was charged PPI 
premiums of £276.75.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint because:
The PPI was sold to Mr G during a telephone call. Capital One hasnt been able to give us a 
recording of the call. I dont find that surprising as the call took place 15 years ago. And I 
wouldnt expect a business to retain call recordings for that long.
Capital One has given us a copy of the script that it says was in use at the time of the sale. I 
dont know how closely the Capital One representative followed the script, but I think it likely 
gives an indication of how the call was structured. And I can see it wouldve been made clear 
the policy was optional.
I also note the PPI remained on Mr Gs account for some time until 2009. And during that 
time the premiums wouldve appeared on Mr Gs monthly statements. So if it was something 
he hadnt asked for or wanted, Id expect him to have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive 
not seen any evidence that he did.
So taking everything into account I think its most likely that Capital One made Mr G aware 
he had a choice about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. Although I can 
understand if Mr G cant recall this after so many years.
From looking at the script, I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr G so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it still had to give Mr G clear information about 
the policy so he could decide for himself whether to buy it.
DRN-1911732Its possible that Capital One didnt give all the information it should have done. But thats not 
enough to uphold this complaint. I next need to decide whether or not Mr G would have 
changed his mind about buying the policy if he had been given better or clearer information. I 
cant say he would have done. I say this because:
Mr G doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
For example Mr G has told us he didnt have any existing medical conditions that wouldnt 
have been covered.
It looks like Mr G was eligible for the cover. So hed have been able to make a claim if he 
needed to.
Based on what I know about his circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to 
Mr G if things went wrong. Mr G could not recall the amount of sick pay his employer would 
have paid him  if he became unable to work. But the PPI policy sold to him couldve paid a 
monthly benefit for up to 12 months in addition to any sick pay.And it couldve also paid a 
monthly benefit if Mr G lost him job.
And Ive not seen any evidence that suggests the PPI premiums were unaffordable for Mr G.
I recognise Mr Gs family wouldve wanted to help him if things went wrong but this kind of 
financial help isnt guaranteed. And in any event the PPI would mean Mr G would not have 
had to rely on family to help pay his credit card.
So after taking everything into account, I think its most likely Capital One made it clear that 
Mr G had a choice about buying the policy and he chose to take it. I also think Mr G wouldve 
gone ahead and bought it even if Capital One had given him all the clear information it 
should have.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman