DRN-2931570
The complaint
Mr R complains about the amount Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has paid for alternative 
accommodation (AA) during a claim made under a buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R owns a flat in a block which he rented to a tenant.
In December 2018 a nearby wall collapsed into the block. It caused damage to Mr Rs flat, 
making it uninhabitable, so Mr Rs tenant had to move out. A claim was made to Covea for 
the cost of putting right the damage to Mr Rs flat, Mr Rs loss of rent, and his tenants AA.
Covea agreed to repair the damage to the flat and pay Mr Rs loss of rent. It initially paid the 
tenant for short term AA and then agreed £800 per month for them to stay with family. Covea 
later said it wouldnt pay for AA after June 2019. The tenant returned to the flat in December, 
meaning they were without AA payments for around six months.
Mr R complained about this. Covea confirmed it would continue to pay for Mr Rs loss of rent 
whilst his flat was uninhabitable. But it said Mr R could end the tenancy agreement. And if he 
did so, he would have no legal obligation to provide his tenant with AA  and therefore 
Covea had no obligation to pay for it under the policy.
Covea arranged for the flat repairs to be carried out. Shortly after the tenant returned, Mr R 
reported problems with his flat that he thought Covea should resolve. I understand Covea 
treated this as a new and separate claim and appointed a different loss adjuster to handle it.
Unhappy with Coveas response to his complaint, Mr R referred it to this service. Our 
investigator considered Covea had acted fairly when it stopped paying for this tenants AA. 
Mr R disagreed. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to 
me.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea has paid Mr Rs claim for loss of rent until the tenant returned in December 2019 and 
thats not in dispute. Mr R has made a separate complaint about what happened after that, 
so I wont consider here what happened to the flat in December 2019. In this decision I will 
only be considering Coveas decision to stop paying Mr Rs tenants AA in June 2019.
I previously issued a provisional decision, which Ill summarise:
Covea considered a clause in the tenancy agreement meant Mr R could end it when 
the damage happened. In summary, it says that if the property becomes damaged 
and uninhabitable as a result of something insured by Covea the tenant may by 
giving written notice to the landlord or his agents [to] terminate the tenancy forthwith.
Covea has interpreted that to mean the tenant may be given written notice by Mr R to 
terminate the tenancy agreement. I wasnt persuaded that was the case. I thought it 
gave the tenant the right to let Mr R know they wish to terminate the tenancy. And as 
it said the tenant may give notice, I thought the tenant had the right to choose to 
terminate the tenancy if they wish  it wasnt a requirement. I understand the tenant 
didnt choose to end the tenancy. So the agreement remained in place.
Covea has also said Mr R could have provided his tenant with a Notice to Quit. 
Based on advice Mr R took, I wasnt satisfied this would have ended the tenancy 
agreement.
Even if Covea was correct about either point above, and Mr R was able to end the 
tenancy, I didnt think he was required to.
Covea had relied on its interpretation of the tenancy agreement and a belief Mr R 
ought to end the tenancy to decline the AA claim. As I didnt agree with it on either 
point I thought the complaint should be upheld. I asked Covea to accept the claim 
from June.
In response, Covea reiterated some of the points it had already made. It also said its liability 
should only extend as far as Mr Rs obligations and the tenancy agreement doesnt require 
him to re-house his tenant. It said it was reasonable to pay Mr Rs loss of rent if the tenant 
wasnt paying him  or to pay for the tenants AA if they were still paying Mr R  but not both. 
If it did, it would be effectively providing free accommodation to the tenant.
Ive considered what Covea has said about the tenancy agreement. I still dont think Mr R 
was required to try to end the tenancy  or that he would have been able to if he had tried. 
But I think the point Covea has made about Mr Rs obligations to his tenant is correct  I 
cant see a clause which requires him to provide AA in the event of damage to the flat. 
However, I think the other points Covea have made, about the extent of policy cover, are 
more important to this complaint than the potential end of the tenancy agreement. So thats 
what Ill focus on.
The policy covers loss of rent and thats been paid. It also covers costs incurred by the 
tenant for temporary storage of furniture or accommodating pets  but not for a tenants AA. I 
think the point Covea has made is that if the tenant had continued paying rent, and so there 
would be no need to cover loss of rent, it may pay for the tenants AA instead. But the policy 
doesnt actually cover it  and as I understand it, the tenant didnt pay rent whilst they 
couldnt live in the flat.
That means Covea has fulfilled the policy terms by paying loss of rent only. It accepts it 
made a mistake initially by paying for the tenants AA when the policy doesnt cover it. So 
Ive considered what the impact of that mistake was.
Until June, the impact was the tenant received funding for AA, which the policy doesnt 
cover. And Covea hasnt asked for this money back, which I think is the right approach to 
take. So Im satisfied it initially benefitted the tenant.
Mr R wasnt paying for his tenants AA, so he didnt lose out financially. I understand his 
tenant has lived at his flat for a long time and Mr R was concerned with their wellbeing. So I 
think there would have been a degree of concern for his tenant when finding out the arrangement to pay for their AA would come to an end before the flat was ready to return to. 
But I dont think the impact of this on Mr R would merit compensation.
I understand the tenant had made arrangements to stay in short term lets and then with 
family whilst away from the flat. So they hadnt committed to fixed costs, such as a long term 
let, that they would have to fulfil even after Covea stopped paying for AA. Because of that, I 
dont think they lost out financially  particularly when the initial period of time in which they 
benefitted is taken into account.
I think its likely the tenant suffered some distress and disappointment. They thought theyd 
receive AA funding until they could return to the flat  then later found out they wouldnt.
Mr R has described how his tenants personal circumstances made things difficult during this 
time. I dont think it would be appropriate to set out those circumstances here, but I accept it 
was a stressful time for the tenant even before the damage to the flat. I cant hold Covea 
responsible for the damage, the damage making the property uninhabitable, or the limited 
AA options available to the tenant. Whilst its likely to have had a significant impact on them, 
thats a result of the wall collapse and other things beyond Coveas control. 
The tenant isnt a policyholder or an eligible complainant to this service. That means I 
wouldnt be able to require Covea to compensate the tenant for any distress caused by 
withdrawing AA funding. But even if I could, Id have to take into account the initial benefit 
when doing so.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, Im not persuaded it would be 
fair to require Covea to pay for further AA. And I dont think it would be reasonable to ask it 
to pay any compensation given the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Mr R responded to say he accepted my decision.
Covea didnt respond.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman