DRN-3848512
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that when they moved house, Santander UK Plc wouldnt agree to 
grant them a new mortgage in both their names, but with only Mrs S named on the deeds, 
although it had agreed to their previous property being held in this way.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S told us that after they first got a mortgage with Santander, theyd changed how 
they owned their home. In late 2016, theyd got permission from Santander to take Mr Ss 
name off the deeds of their house, so it was owned solely by Mrs S. But the mortgage was 
still in both their names. This is referred to as a joint borrower, sole proprietor mortgage. Mr 
and Mrs S extended their borrowing on their home twice after this, in 2017 and 2019.
Then more recently, they wanted to move house, porting their existing borrowing and adding
some new lending. Things didnt go smoothly, which unfortunately meant that Mr and Mrs S
went through Santanders mortgage application process three times.
Mr and Mrs S said that it was only at the very final stages of their eventual move, at the end
of April 2022, that their solicitor noted there was nothing from Santander to confirm they
could own their new home in the same way as their old one. So they wrote to Santander
then asking for this permission. But Santander said no.
Mr and Mrs S did manage to move, with borrowing from Santander, but they werent able to
get the joint borrower, sole proprietor mortgage they wanted. I understand that they are both
named on the deeds of their new property, and on the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S said they werent told when permission was originally granted in November
2016, that this permission would need to be revisited if they moved house. They said they
hadnt been able to find any written policy confirming Santander wouldnt lend in this way.
And they noted that theyd been through three separate mortgage applications before finally
being able to move, with no one noting this might be an issue.
Mr and Mrs S also said that how their property was held was nothing to do with Santander.
They wanted Santander to pay the legal fees to cover changing the ownership of their new
property into Mrs Ss sole name, so it was held in the same way as the old one. Alternatively
they said Santander should pay two thirds of the cost of the last change to title on their old
property, because theyd expected that arrangement to continue for the full term of their
mortgage and it had ended after only a third of that time.
Santander said it thought it had agreed to Mr Ss name being taken off the deeds in 2016
because it had understood that he and Mrs S were separating. It didnt think it would have
agreed to this change then, otherwise. And Santander wouldnt give Mr and Mrs S a joint
borrower sole proprietor mortgage now. It said they both had to be named on the deeds.
Santander said Mr and Mrs S could request a change to how they held the property once
they had completed their move, but it indicated that this request wasnt likely to be accepted
unless Mr and Mrs S were separating.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that lending criteria and
decisions change over time, so what Santander agreed to in 2016 doesnt mean we could
reasonably say it would be bound to make the same decisions in 2022. And it also looked as
if Santander hadnt fully understood the situation in 2016, as it had understood Mr S wouldnt
be remaining in the property.
Mr S said our investigator hadnt understood what he had asked for. He wanted either
Santander to cover the legal costs of reverting the new property back to joint borrower sole
proprietor, or to compensate them for two thirds of the cost of setting up this arrangement
originally, as it had only run for one third of the time Mr and Mrs S anticipated.
Mr S queried why Santander would have understood he was leaving the property. Hed
never suggested this, and Santander had continued to write to him at that address.
Our investigator said he understood Mr S thought we ought to have looked more closely at
the circumstances around the agreement to hold the property differently in 2016. And Mr S
thought Santander knew he was staying in the property. But our investigator said those
points wouldnt change his mind. Our investigator still wouldnt say that Santander had to
offer Mr and Mrs S the same arrangement in 2022 that it offered in 2016.
Mr S replied again, to say he thought Santander set a precedent on allowing joint borrower
sole proprietor arrangement on their previous property. He couldnt see why it had changed
its mind, or that it reasonably could do so. Mr S repeated that this was really none of
Santanders business. It had first charge over the property so its position was protected.
Mr S wanted this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for
a final decision. I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold it 
in part. This is what I said then: 
Mr S has questioned why Santander would assume he was moving out in 2016. He said 
hed certainly never suggested that. I note theres nothing to suggest this in the letter I 
saw. And whilst we dont have information on exactly why Mr and Mrs S chose to hold 
their property in this way, there are other reasons why they may have chosen to do so.
I think its most likely that, if Santander did indeed assume Mr S was moving out of the 
mortgaged property, that this assumption was a mistake. But I reach this decision solely 
for the purposes of looking at what happened more recently, when Mr and Mrs S asked 
to move house and hold their new property on the same basis. Mr and Mrs Ss 
complaint is that Santander wont do now what it did in 2016. It isnt a complaint about 
Santanders 2016 decision (and the time limits on bringing a complaint to our service 
mean we might not be able to consider a complaint about that now).
Santander now says that it wont lend on a joint borrower sole proprietor basis. Our 
investigator said Santander was entitled to change its mind about this. But our service 
has asked if Santander can show us that this policy has come into force since Mr and 
Mrs Ss original request in 2016, or indeed since the additional borrowing they took out 
on their old home in 2017 and 2019. Santander hasnt responded to our questions on 
this.
It seems most likely that when Santander said it wouldnt lend to Mr and Mrs S on a joint 
borrower sole proprietor basis in 2022, it was doing so on the basis of a longstanding policy, which it has previously overlooked in Mr and Mrs Ss case. And I note that 
Santander also didnt comment on how Mr and Mrs Ss existing home was owned, when 
it either offered them more borrowing, or dealt with any of their three recent mortgage 
applications. It was only when Mr and Mrs Ss solicitor suggested they explicitly confirm 
how their new property would be held, that Santander objected.
However, I should be clear that my conclusions above dont mean Santander has to 
agree to a joint borrower sole proprietor mortgage now. I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to suggest that having made a mistake in the past binds Santander to 
continue making the same mistake in future. And I dont agree with Mr S that how the 
property is held is simply none of its business. I think Santander has a strong vested 
interest in ensuring it fully understands who has a claim on the property that Mr and Mrs 
S are using as security for its lending, and if Mr S continues to live in the property, and 
pay the mortgage, but isnt named on the deeds, then his claim on the property wouldnt 
necessarily be extinguished entirely, it might just be much more complicated to deal 
with. For those reasons, I dont think Santander has to agree to this change again in 
future.
But I do think that Santander has provided Mr and Mrs S with poor service. Because it 
doesnt seem to have raised any concern about how they held their previous property, 
either when it agreed additional lending for them or when it processed any of their three 
recent mortgage applications, I think that Mr and Mrs S had no reason to suspect that 
this would be an issue. So it was an unpleasant surprise, very late in the day, when Mr 
and Mrs S realised that they couldnt simply replicate their existing arrangement in their 
new home.
I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs S would have obtained the lending they wanted 
elsewhere, as many lenders prefer not to offer joint borrower sole proprietor mortgages 
at all, and those that do generally do so in circumstances where the person not named 
on the deeds agrees not to reside in the property. So I dont think its very likely that a 
competitive mortgage deal could have been obtained for Mr and Mrs S, allowing them to 
hold the property in the way they wanted, if theyd been aware of Santanders objection 
earlier. But I do accept that, because Mr and Mrs S only found out about Santanders 
objection very late in the day, they lost the chance to try to secure lending in the way 
they wanted.
For that reason, I think Santander should pay Mr and Mrs S some compensation. I think 
a payment of £300 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander just said it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr S wanted to clarify that when he said the ownership of the property was none of 
Santanders business, hed understood that only those named on the deeds had any rights 
over the property and that Santander would have first charge until the mortgage is paid or 
moved, so it would be fully protected. But Id said that in Mr Ss circumstances, his claim on 
the property wouldnt necessarily be extinguished entirely, it might just be much more complicated to deal with. So Mr S said that if the issue isnt quite as cut and dry as hed 
previously thought, then he understood the statements made in my decision. 
Mr S also noted that, as Id suggested, there are many reasons why a person may not want 
to be on the deeds of the property they are paying towards.
Mr S said the compensation amount I had proposed, of £300, didnt quite cover two thirds of 
what hed paid to have his name taken off the deeds of his old property, which is what hed 
suggested as a compromise settlement. But he said if Santander also agreed, then the 
amount was close enough to covering two thirds of those fees, so he wouldnt ask for more 
compensation.
Santander has accepted this decision, as I set out above. As both sides have agreed with 
my proposed resolution, and I havent changed my mind, Ill now make the decision I 
originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must pay Mr and Mrs S £300 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman