DRN-2060842
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Royal and Sun Alliance plc have unreasonably refused 
to pay their claim under their pet policy.
References to RSA includes all its agents. 
What happened
Mr G initially bought a policy with RSA for their dog on 31 December 2016. It was a life time 
policy.
On 28 December 2018 Mrs G phoned RSA to discuss the renewal premium. She thought it 
was too high as it was to increase from £340.88 to £374.96 and saw that on line through an 
aggregator website, RSA was offering the same policy for a much, reduced premium, 
namely £237.92.
RSA said it explained the premium quoted online was discounted for new customers. It also 
explained that any new conditions her dog might suffer would be covered under a new policy 
as long there was nothing pre-existing. 
Mrs G then opted to buy a new policy in her name which was also a life time policy. Mr G 
then phoned RSA on 31 December 2018 and cancelled the policy in his name. RSA said 
that it explained the terms and conditions to Mrs G when she bought her policy to include the 
fact that no pre-existing conditions would be covered going forward. 
Mr and Mrs G then made a claim for vet fees for treating their dogs ears and suspected 
allergies in September 2019. RSA said that because their dog had suffered and been treated 
for these before this second policy started, this claim concerned a pre-existing condition and 
it could not pay it.
Mr and Mrs G appealed but RSA wouldnt change its stance. So, they brought their 
complaint to us. The investigator didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs G didnt agree 
so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
Because of the premium pricing difference for new customers which was discounted, I can 
understand why Mrs G opted to buy a new policy for her dog. However, such a break in 
cover like that, does mean any pre-existing conditions going forward arent covered. There is 
nothing wrong with this either, as legally a new policy is a new contract and there is no duty 
in a new policy to cover anything which was ongoing in the previous policy.
Im satisfied RSA explained this to Mrs G on the phone and Im also satisfied its new policy 
also detailed and explained this.
In the section headed Understanding and using this policy it says: We do not cover any 
changes that you or vet notices in your pets health or behaviour before this policy started, or 
any illness or injury that develop from these changes. [My emphasis].
In the section entitled policy exclusions it clearly says the following also:
Existing conditions
We will not pay claims for any changes that you or your vet notices in your pets 
health or behaviour before this policy started, or any illness or injury that develop 
from these changes.
Lastly in the Schedule sent to Mrs G it says the following:
You accept that this policy will not insure:
 Changes that you or your vet notice in your pets health or behaviour before this 
policy started, or any illness or injury that develop from these changes;
So, Im satisfied RSA did enough to bring this exclusion to Mr and Mrs Gs attention. More so 
given Mr and Mrs G had the usual 14-day cooling off period to check the policy detail to 
ensure they were happy with what the policy provided. 
My role and the role of this service is to assess whether RSA did anything wrong having 
regard to the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr and Mrs G. We are not the regulator 
so I cant adjudicate on whether its fair that such pre-existing condition conditions exist in 
pet insurance contracts. I can only adjudicate on whether RSA relied on its exclusion fairly 
and reasonably. Virtually every pet policy on the market, whether for life time cover or annual 
cover does have a pre-existing condition exclusion, so its an industry standard across the 
market in some form or another and consequently I dont find it at all unusual. And all 
insurers include it for the same reason, which is insurers are entitled to decide what risks 
they want to cover and what they dont. And when dealing with health type policies and 
more so life time pet policies, they, like RSA here, dont want to deal with the consequences 
of any pre-existing conditions or illnesses or further issues which flow from those pre-existing 
health concerns. 
The next issue is whether the claim Mr and Mrs G submitted to RSA concerns issues that 
their dog was suffering from before the policy started. The claim was for vet fees of over 
£1,000 for ear issues and investigation costs into allergies. 
I think it does for the following reasons.
On the claim form the vet clearly decided to answer yes to the question Has this pet has 
this condition or clinical signs before or any related conditions?  And the vet further wrote 
the dates she believed Mr and Mrs Gs suffered similar issues being 28/4/18, 2/11/18 and 
11/1/19. So, this vet was firmly of the view Mr and Mrs Gs dog has suffered this before.
I understand and appreciate this vet no longer works at the practice anymore and that her 
colleague explained her own thoughts as follows:
Given that it was over a year from the April 2018 episode to the next episode of 
Otitis externa, it is possible that the episode in 2018 was an isolated incident of Otitis 
externa due to an infectious cause, but it is impossible to say for certain that allergies were not involved because allergy tests were not conducted during the episode in 
2018 (which we would not routinely do for a one-off incident of Otitis externa). Given 
that we cannot say for certain whether or not allergies were involved in the episode in 
April 2018, I would ask on behalf of the [name] that you reconsider their claim.
However, this is missing the point of the exclusion clause. Mr G said on this basis, it doesnt 
necessarily indicate his dog had allergy issues then, however it also doesnt say his dog had 
no similar conditions before this policy was taken out, which is what the pre-existing 
condition is concerned about.  As I emphasised above in the policy wording, no claim is 
considered for any illness or injury that develop from these changes too. This pre-existing 
condition clause covers changes in the pets health. It is also not limited to actual diagnoses 
being made at the time. 
Its clear from the vet history that Mr and Mrs Gs dog had previous ear issues plus shaking 
her head, as on 24 April 2018 the history stated the following:
both ears irritated, has been shaking head the last week quite often, clean ear canal 
sore skin, redness and stratches marks on ear skin, also anal gland problems as 
rubbing bottom with floors but unable to check anal glands as biting when doing it. 
Dude normally, has also started to lick front paws at night.
Poss allergies discussed, options advised if wanting to test it wait until 3 years old, 
already insured, will be back if no better, will keep a diary of itchiness to check if 
seasonal or getting worse.
This doesnt just concern ear issues as Mr and Mrs Gs present vet said above, but also 
concerns licking paws and anal gland problems which in my view is much more than just the 
ear problems. 
The entry of 2 November 2018 talked of O mention that she shakes her ears but not often.
The entry of 11 January 2019 says: 
Came in for ag to be emptied by [name] but O mention that she has been licking 
right paw. Noticed on exam that had an erosion in between pads and its moist. Also 
had it in left one (but smaller). Hind ones are fine. Adv to stop self harm with sock 
and comfy collar. Also to apply twice daily betafuse. Review in a week. 
The person who emptied the anal gland on that day wrote,
 Been scooting on bottom and licking RF paw a lot. EAGs nothing much to express 
 very wriggly and so taken down the back for assistance to restrain. Normal 
contents. Checked RF  quite pink and skin does seem a bit sore here so advised 
vet to check. 
And then there were further issues in September 2019 which formed the claim Mr and Mrs G 
made to RSA on their new policy and is the subject matter of this complaint. Those issues 
included a thickened ear canal plus problems around the anus and vulva. 
Its clear to me that the account of the presentation to the vet in April 2018 and then again in 
January 2019 is broadly similar with the same types of issues being noted, namely irritated 
ears, head or ear shaking, licking paws and scooting on the floor.
Therefore, I dont consider RSA has been unreasonable in saying the eventual claim in 
September 2019 is linked back to the issues described in first entry in April 2018, which of course pre-dates the start of this policy. So, its clear to me on the balance of probabilities Mr 
and Mrs G dog exhibited the issues now being claimed, before this policy started.
My final decision
So, whilst I do appreciate Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed, for these reasons its my final 
decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman