DRN-2939279
The complaint
Mr B has complained that One Insurance Limited (One Insurance) undervalued his van 
following a total loss claim.
  
What happened
Mr Bs van was stolen so he submitted a claim on his commercial motor policy. One 
Insurance initially offered Mr B just over £10,000 for his van. Mr B complained and after 
reviewing the situation One Insurance made a second offer of £13,503 to settle his claim as 
it said this represented the market value of his van.
But Mr B doesnt think this offer is fair and wants One Insurance to pay what he thinks the 
van is worth. Mr B says to get a like for like replacement it would cost him a lot more. Mr B 
says his van is a specific high roof trend van, and he thinks One Insurance are not taking 
this into account in its valuation. He says the van is worth approximately £19,000. He says 
its impossible to get a similar van for the amount One Insurance is offering. 
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint. Our investigator discovered that 
the valuation guides werent bringing up the correct model of van, using Mr Bs registration 
number. So, he discarded all the valuations One Insurance submitted and ran his own 
separate valuations, using the trade guides but using the correct model of van. This returned 
an increased value for this van. 
Mr B has advised he doesnt pay VAT, so our investigator suggested to One Insurance that it 
increases its valuation to £15,162, plus VAT if payable. 
One Insurance replied but didnt agree. However, One Insurance just stated that it had used 
the guides and hadnt done anything wrong.  It hasnt suggested how it wants to move the 
complaint forward. As we havent received anything further from One Insurance, Im going to 
issue a final decision to resolve the matter.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B is unhappy with the valuation One Insurance has placed on his van. Our approach is to 
consider whether One Insurance has settled Mr Bs claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of his policy, fairly and reasonably. So, Ive considered the terms of the policy and 
the offer made in order to determine whether One Insurance has acted fairly. I can see that 
in the event the van cant be repaired, One Insurance wont pay more than the market value 
of the van at the time of the loss.
Market Value is defined as The cost of replacing your car, if this is possible, with one of a 
similar make, model and specification, taking into account the age, mileage and condition 
of your car, immediately before the loss or damage happened. In assessing the market 
value of your vehicle, we may refer to insurance industry recognised guides of vehicle 
values as well as searching for available vehicles being offered for sale to the general public.
Our usual approach to complaints about car or van valuations is to look at motor trade 
guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive because their valuations 
are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The guides refer to advertised 
and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. 
This takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as any extras and the 
mileage. If any guides price is significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its 
reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. But differences in mileage or year of registration 
can significantly affect value. Adverts may be helpful if the complaint involves a classic or 
rare model. Or on the rare occasion when we cant value a vehicle using the motor trade 
guides 
And I can see that this is One Insurances approach too. So normally there wouldnt be an 
issue. But having reviewed everything thats been submitted, including a sales receipt from 
the garage where Mr B bought the van, and a number of photographs that Mr B has 
provided, I can see that this model of van is exactly what Mr B says it is, and is a different 
model to what the motor trade guides are returning. Because of this Im satisfied that there is 
an error with the trade guides, and for some unexplainable reason, all of the motor trade 
guides are valuing an incorrect version of this van.
So, Ive discarded all evidence available because its based on incorrect information, and I 
will be taking into account the CAP and Glasss valuations that our investigator ran 
specifically using the correct spec of Mr Bs van. I can see that the mileage and date of loss 
are correct on both valuations, so Im satisfied the price weve now been given is 
representative of what the market value is. CAP has returned a value of £15,050 and Glasss 
has returned a value of £15,272.
Its not up to this service to place an exact valuation on Mr Bs vehicle. Its our role to make 
sure One Insurance is giving Mr B a fair price using a fair and recognised approach. In this 
instance the fairest approach would be to ask One Insurance to pay the average of these 
two figures. This gives us a total of £15,162, and this is what One Insurance should pay Mr B 
for his van (less excess). If VAT is payable, and my understanding is that it is, then VAT 
should also be added to the settlement, along with 8% on the full amount from the date of 
claim to the date of payment.
I appreciate One Insurances frustration in relation to this. And I agree, it hasnt done 
anything wrong. It would seem there is an error with all the motor trade guides, and this even 
occurred when I ran the valuations myself using the registration number. Because of this Im 
asking One Insurance to pay the value as set out above (less excess), plus VAT if payable, 
and 8% simple interest only. I wont be asking One Insurance to pay compensation, as this 
error was out of its control. Mr B did mention child seats and some loss of use. However, 
these losses were never supported, so I wont be including anything further for these.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint.One Insurance Limited should pay Mr B:
£15,162 for the van (less excess), 
VAT on this amount if payable
add 8% simple interest to the total settlement from date of claim to date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman