DRN-3399854
The complaint
Mr C complains that Carpenter Rees Limited (CRL) gave him unsuitable advice to use the 
funds from two personal pensions with Guaranteed Annuity Rates (GARs) to purchase 
annuities. He feels he shouldve been advised to add the funds from the personal pensions 
to his Small Self-administered Scheme (SSAS). Mr C also feels his adviser didnt make him 
aware of his other options, or tell him that the annuity couldnt be reversed or altered at a 
later date.
Ill only refer to Mr C in this decision, but I understand that his wife was also involved in some 
of the details discussed.
What happened
Mr C used CRL for financial planning and pension advice, particularly in relation to his 
SSAS. The only client agreement between CRL and Mr C relates to his SSAS. He had 
annual reviews with CRL.
In September 2014, CRL wrote to Mr C to give him information about the new pension 
freedoms. These changes came into force in April 2015. I understand that in January 2015, 
Mr C discussed the new pension freedoms with his adviser as he wanted to know how they 
affected his personal pension plans. 
Mr C held two personal pensions with different providers. At the time of the incident leading 
to the complaint, one  with provider 1 - had a value of approximately £93,000, the other  
with provider 2  had a value of around £13,500. Both pensions had GARs. 
Mr C had a review with his CRL adviser in December 2015. During the review, Mr Cs SSAS, 
pension freedoms and the two personal pension plans were discussed. Mr C had no need 
for additional income at that time, but due to the attractive GARs attached to the personal 
pension plans, it was decided theyd remain as they were. But the notes from the meeting 
said that Mr C would consider taking the benefits at some point prior to his 75th birthday.
Mr C had his next annual review with his CRL adviser in December 2016. His two personal 
pension plans and the GARs were discussed. The meeting notes record that Mr C decided it 
would be better to have these in payment, so he asked his adviser to arrange the relevant 
paperwork.
CRL said that accessing the GAR on the personal pension held with provider 1 wasnt 
straightforward. This was because although previous paperwork from provider 1 had 
suggested that the GAR applied until Mr C had reached age 75, provider 1 had claimed that 
it actually only applied until age 70, which Mr C had already passed. CRL said that this had 
frustrated Mr C, who they said had maintained his position that the GAR was his preferred 
option. They said hed asked them to pursue the matter with provider 1 on his behalf. CRL 
successfully did so, and provider 1 offered to reinstate the GAR. But this was conditional on 
the annuity being purchased no later than 20 May 2017 with a named third-party provider. 
This was because provider 1 no longer sold annuities themselves. CRL said that Mr C 
instructed them to act immediately to secure the GAR within the available window.
CRL wrote to Mr C on 1 March 2017 with the retirement quotes and options for taking the 
benefits from his two personal pension plans. The letter explained that the policy funds could 
be used to buy a pension for life for Mr C of £9,625.80 before tax each year. And a 50% 
spouse's pension. It also gave figures for the reduced pension and tax-free cash if the 
maximum tax-free cash were taken. And the level of starting pension if a single life pension 
were chosen, or a joint pension (50% spouses) that increased at 5% each year. The letter 
also gave details of the pension the benefits held with provider 2 could provide. And made 
recommendations about which annuity option Mr C should take. CRL said the applicable 
GAR rates for both plans were very favourable compared to annuity rates currently available 
in the open market. They noted that the salary details Mr Cs accountant had provided 
showed that the pension income quoted should still leave him within his basic rate tax band. 
CRL also said that there were various ways that Mr C could take his retirement income, 
including flexi-access drawdown, but noted that such an option wasnt available with provider 
1 or provider 2. They noted that Mr C could drawdown flexibly from his SSAS. And therefore 
recommended that he took the benefits from each of his personal pension plans, taking the 
GAR option. CRL also said that the decision on buying an annuity was a one-off decision 
that would provide a fixed income throughout Mr Cs retirement. CRL included application 
forms for Mr C to complete to request the annuities theyd recommended. A summary of the 
typical advantages and disadvantages associated with the different ways an individual can 
draw benefits from a personal pension was sent with the letter.
Mr C competed the paperwork required to start the annuities. The pension with provider 1 
started on 25 April 2017. And the pension with provider 2 started on 12 April 2017.
A review meeting was held in December 2017. It was noted that Mr C had another personal 
pension with a GAR with provider 1. It said that it had been double-checked that the GAR 
applied up to Mr C had reached age 75. The meeting notes also said that Mr C didnt require 
the income from the pension at that point, so the policy had been left to grow. 
Mr C complained to CRL on 5 February 2020. He felt the advice hed received to buy the 
annuities had been incomplete and inappropriate to his age and general financial position. 
And that he wouldve been better off if hed transferred the personal pension benefits into his 
SSAS. He also made the following points:
He couldve passed money on to his family whilst he was still alive if hed not bought 
the annuities
Although the GAR appeared attractive, Mr Cs individual circumstances were 
unusual. He didnt remember his IFA asking for information on his personal financial 
circumstances, but felt hed concentrated on the GARs, and had ignored the 
downsides of purchasing annuities
He said that CRL hadnt mentioned the possibility of transferring the personal 
pension funds into his SSAS to support loan payments or the development costs of 
current or future developments.
He felt that CRL hadnt made him aware of his other options. He said the income 
from the annuities hed purchased was taxable. And that it would halve when he died.
He also felt there would be a potential inheritance tax liability for any retained money 
from the annuities. Mr C felt a better option wouldve been to add the sums to the 
SSAS which wouldve allowed him to drawdown the money at his discretion.
CRL issued their final response to Mr Cs complaint on 25 February 2020. They didnt uphold 
the complaint. They felt that their adviser had explained that other pension options were available to Mr C if he wished to explore them, before hed taken his benefits. They said that 
their adviser hadnt been providing Mr C with full advice, but that he was acting on Mr Cs 
stated objective which was to use the GARs available to him and draw his benefits while 
staying within the basic rate tax band. They gave some background information on both 
pension freedoms and annuities. They said that during the 2015 meeting, their adviser had 
asked Mr C for his thoughts on how he should benefit from his two personal pensions. They 
said that Mr C had felt that the GARs represented very good value and should be retained. 
And that hed said that any pension flexibility he needed would be met by his SSAS. CRL 
said that during the 2016 meeting, Mr Cs pension plans were again discussed. And that Mr 
Cs position remained that the GARs represented very good value. They said that Mr C had 
reviewed the information provided on the GARs and had told his adviser that he wanted to 
take the pension now. And that hed asked his adviser to prepare the necessary paperwork 
to secure his benefits. They said that Mr Cs aim at this stage was to draw his income whilst 
continuing to be a basic rate taxpayer. They said that Mr C had instructed them to ensure 
the GAR option offered by provider 1 wasnt lost. They said hed considered the various 
annuity quotes provider 1 and provider 2 had provided, and had chosen to take a full 
pension, with a five-year guarantee and a 50% spouses pension, based on the GARs, from 
both providers. CRL also disagreed that their adviser had failed to take into account Mr Cs 
age, and gave details of expected life expectancy at the time the annuities were purchased. 
They said that Mr C had been asked during the 2016 review meeting to provide details of his 
income and expenditure, but that hed politely declined. They said their adviser had spoken 
to Mr Cs accountant - at his request - to confirm his income. And that his accountant had 
confirmed that Mr C was well within the basic rate tax band in the 2015/16 tax year. CRL felt 
that this conflicted with Mr Cs current position, where hed told them that his personal 
income at the time of taking the benefits from the two personal pension plans was in excess 
of £100,000. And that he hadnt required additional income at the time. CRL said that if this 
had been the case in early 2017, then neither they nor Mr Cs accountant were aware of this 
level of income. CRL also confirmed that, as the information provided to Mr C in March 2017 
had stated, the decision to purchase annuities was irrevocable.
Mr C didnt agree with the final response and made a subject access request to CRL for all 
his data. 
CRL acted on the request. They noted that they didnt have a personal agreement in place 
with Mr C. They said that the only client agreement that they had related to Mr Cs SSAS 
which was dated November 2013. They confirmed the fees theyd charged the SSAS since 
December 2013, noting that the last fee paid was in respect of the invoice issued in 
December 2017. They also confirmed that no fees had been charged or received in respect 
of the annuity purchase.
Unhappy, Mr C brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt consider that it 
should be upheld. She said that although she understood that with hindsight Mr C felt he 
wouldve benefited from transferring his personal pension funds into his SSAS instead of 
buying the annuities, she couldnt say that CRL had done something wrong based on 
hindsight. She was satisfied that CRL had provided some level of advice about taking 
benefits from the personal pensions. But she felt the adviser had provided Mr C with enough 
information to know what options were available and what they meant. She also felt that any 
adviser wouldve needed a persuasive reason not to recommend taking the GARs. So she 
felt that the advice had been suitable. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for review.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. I agree with our investigator that although it 
appears that advice to purchase the annuities linked to the GARs was given, that advice was 
suitable. Ill explain why.
First Ill consider whether CRL gave Mr C advice to purchase the annuities. CRL say they 
didnt formally advise him to do so. They said Mr C had decided himself that he wanted to 
purchase the annuities with the funds from his personal pensions. Mr C said that CRL 
advised him to purchase the annuities. 
Did CRL advise Mr C on the annuity purchase?
Mr C said that as his personal pension plans had GARs attached to them, his adviser 
recommended that he should take them as they would offer a better rate to normal annuities.
He said that at that time, he tried to stay within the basic rate tax limit, despite having a 
number of sources to take his income from. Mr C said that he didnt receive formal advice on 
his full pension options from CRL. He told this service that each time he had an option in 
relation to any of his financial products he asked CRL for advice on how to proceed. He said 
he trusted them to provide him with sound personalised advice. And that at no time did CRL 
act on his instruction.  
CRL told this service that the annuities were purchased on a non-advised basis following Mr 
Cs instruction in December 2016. They said theyd provided him with plenty of information 
and literature about his options and had also had numerous discussions with him. They said 
theyd also explained to Mr C that as the two plans had guaranteed annuity rates, and as the 
larger of the two plans was over £30,000, whilst he was free to choose when he took his 
benefits (providing it was before the age of 75), he would be required to take advice should 
he wish to consider his other options. This was because he would be giving up a 
safeguarded benefit. They said that this advice would include a full analysis of his financial 
circumstances, including his income and expenditure needs now and in the future. CRL said 
that Mr C had declined this option and instructed CRL to arrange for the GAR annuities to be 
purchased. They also said that their adviser believed that he was acting on Mr Cs 
instruction. They said that all of the options had been discussed with Mr C in 2015. And that 
this had resulted in him asking his adviser to confirm the GARs, which he did in June 2015. 
They said this was discussed further in December 2015, when Mr C had confirmed that he 
wanted to retain the GARs and would take the benefits when he felt the time was right. They 
said Mr C had decided to take the annuities in December 2016. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence and what both parties have told this service. 
The meeting notes from the annual reviews in 2015 and 2016 dont evidence any specific 
advice was provided about Mr Cs personal pensions. But the 2016 annual review notes 
stated that the GARs were discussed, and noted as favourable at that time. The notes also 
stated that Mr C said it would be better from him to have his money on payment now. From 
the meeting note, it appears that Mr C asked his adviser to get the necessary paperwork so 
that he could purchase the annuities with the GARs. 
However, there are also a number of references in the 1 March 2017 letter from CRL to Mr C 
where the adviser refers to recommendations being given. For example: I recommend that you take the benefits from each of the above pension plans in house in 
order to benefit from the generous annuity rates available.
my specific recommendation is detailed in the table above.
CRL told this service that the 1 March 2017 letter simply related to Mr Cs objective of taking 
his retirement income from the two plans, which was clarified in the opening paragraphs. 
They said that hed already decided to take the GARs before the letter had been issued. 
Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied that the 1 March 2017 letter does give a clear 
recommendation to purchase the annuities, including a recommendation on the shape of 
the payments. The application form for the annuity from provider 1 also shows CRL as Mr 
Cs financial advisers, and confirms that a personal recommendation was given. Therefore 
Im satisfied that CRL did advise Mr C on the annuity purchase. This advice wasnt full 
advice.
Ill now consider whether this advice to purchase the annuities was suitable.
Was the advice suitable?
Mr C raised a number of complaint points with this service. These were:
CRL didnt tell him about all the options that were available. 
CRL didnt explain that his wife would lose half the annuity income on his death
CRL didnt explain that the annuity couldnt be changed at a later date
CRL knew that he and his wife jointly took a monthly dividend from their company of 
£6,000. And that they received a total of around £2,000 each month in state pension. 
So they knew he didnt need additional monthly income. 
The tax basis on the annuity income was detrimental.
Ill address each of these points. 
Options available
Mr C said CRL didnt tell him that the funds from his personal pensions couldve been paid 
into his SSAS, or to another pension. He said that at the time of the advice, his SSAS was 
short of liquidity. And that CRL were fully aware of this. 
CRL said that the annuity quote provided by provider 2 clearly set out all of Mr Cs available 
options, including transferring the value or taking a lump sum. 
The 1 March 2017 from CRL stated: 
There are various ways in which you can take your retirement income including flexi-access 
drawdown
Further information that was sent with this letter, included a document: Technical 
Information  Pension Benefits. This gave information on all the different ways of taking 
pension benefits, and provided the advantages and disadvantages of each. So Im satisfied 
that Mr C was provided with enough information on the other options available to make an 
informed decision on the annuity purchases. Spouses pension
Mr C also felt that CRL didnt explain that his wife would lose half the income on his death. 
But Im satisfied that they did. I say this because the 1 March 2017 letter explained that the 
policy funds could be used to buy a pension for life for Mr C of £9,625.80 before tax each 
year. And a 50% spouse's pension. But it also gave higher figures for the level of starting 
pension if a single life pension  that is, one with no spouses benefit at all - were chosen. So 
Im satisfied that CRL gave Mr C options on the shape of the annuity, which shouldve shown 
the impact of the spouses pension option on the starting pension. And shouldve made it 
clear that there were other options on the percentage chosen for the spouses pension. I can 
also see that both provider 1 and 2 provided lots of information in their quotes which would 
have made the situation clear. 
Annuity couldnt be changed
Mr C felt that CRL hadnt explained that the annuity couldnt be changed. But Im satisfied 
that Mr C was given enough information to understand this point. I say this because the
Technical Information  Pension Benefits document confirmed that a Guaranteed Lifetime 
annuity provided a guaranteed income for life. And it also stated that it was an irrevocable 
decision to buy one. I also note that the quotes provided by each pension provider 
explained the polices have no cash-in value at any time. Similar warnings are given in 
documentation the two providers sent alongside the quotes they provided. For example: 
Once the annuity has been set up it cant be changed in any way, and this annuity cant be 
changed, cashed in at any time, or transferred to another annuity provider, even if the 
annuitants personal circumstances change. 
Personal financial circumstances
Mr C said that CRL were aware of his income and therefore knew he had no need of 
additional income in 2016. He also complained about the tax basis of the annuities he 
purchased. He said that he had to pay tax on the annuity payments, and that inheritance tax 
on unspent income could further dilute their value. 
CRL evidenced that theyd asked for and received salary details from that time from Mr Cs 
accountant. These confirmed that the expected pension income from the GARs would 
remain within Mr Cs basic rate tax band, which is what he wanted. So it wouldnt be fair or 
reasonable to say that CRL shouldve known that purchasing the annuities would cause Mr 
C to pay a higher rate of tax.
Mr C said that his income was actually considerably higher than that at the time of the 
advice. But Ive no evidence that he told CRL, and I can see that CRL took reasonable steps 
to establish Mr Cs income. Therefore I cant hold CRL responsible for the tax consequences 
for Mr C being different from what hed wanted. 
Mr C also said that CRL had mentioned that he didnt need income in their meeting notes 
from December 2017. I acknowledge that they did this. But note that Mr C had already gone 
ahead with the two annuity purchases before the meeting, and that they had both started to 
be paid in April 2017. This note actually references a further personal pension Mr C held with 
provider 2. Therefore I dont consider that this meeting note is relevant to the complaint. 
I acknowledge that Mr C said that if hed known about the option to transfer the funds from 
his personal pensions into his SSAS, he probably wouldve taken a different course of 
action. But, from what Ive seen, although it may now seem that a different option wouldve 
been better, I cant fairly say that the advice given was unsuitable at the time. Ill explain why.
The GARs offered by both providers were substantially higher than standard annuity rates at 
that time. CRL told this service that as both personal pension plans had safeguarded 
benefits, then in line with the FCAs rules which specify that they must assume a 
safeguarded benefit is suitable unless they can clearly demonstrate it isnt, they should 
assume that the GARs were suitable for Mr C. 
While still not agreeing that they had provided advice to Mr C, CRL said that if advice had 
been provided, then based on the information theyd known about Mr C at that time, it was 
extremely likely that the advice wouldve been to take the GARs. Theyd received 
confirmation from his accountant that Mr C was a basic rate taxpayer. And Mr C hadnt 
wanted to provide a detailed breakdown of his income and expenditure. They felt that given 
this information, it wouldve been extremely difficult for the adviser to clearly demonstrate 
that the GARs werent suitable. CRL also stated in their FRL that their adviser had explained 
at the time that Mr C would need separate advice if he wanted to access pension flexibilities 
as the plans in question included safeguarded benefits.
The pension held with provider 1 was sufficiently large that there wouldve been a legal 
requirement to take full advice if a decision not to take the GAR had been made. This would 
have led to a substantial advice cost. And, from what Ive seen, its probable that the advice 
wouldve been to take the GAR. Therefore Im satisfied that the advice to take the GARs was 
suitable. 
Overall, Ive found no evidence that CRL did anything wrong. Therefore I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman