DRN-4207236
The complaint
Mrs D has complained to Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited about the sale of her Free 
Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) plan. She says she should have been 
advised to buy added years in her employers occupational pension scheme instead. 
Mrs D is being represented in this complaint by a third party. For ease, Ill refer to all 
representations as having been made by Mrs D. 
What happened
Mrs D met with Aviva (formerly Colonial) and received advice to take out an FSAVC. The 
paperwork completed at the time of the sale confirmed that Mrs D was married. She was 
working as a Teacher, earning just under £21,000. And shed been a member of the 
Teachers Superannuation Scheme (TSS) since 1972. To top up her pension provision, Mrs 
D was advised to start making monthly contributions to an FSAVC until age 60. 
In 2022, with assistance from a representative, Mrs D complained to Aviva about the sale of 
her plan. In summary she complained the FSAVC plan was unsuitable. And that the adviser 
had failed to give her any information on the alternatives she had for topping up her pension 
through the TSS. Mrs D said that, had the plan not been mis-sold, she would have 
purchased added years in the TSS instead of the FSAVC. 
Aviva considered the complaint and said that it hadnt been able to establish that Mrs D had 
been made aware of the in-house alternatives with the TSS. So it upheld the complaint on 
the basis that, had the plan not been mis-sold, Mrs D would have chosen to contribute to the 
in-house additional voluntary contribution (AVC) scheme instead of taking the FSAVC. So 
Aviva offered to complete a calculation to compared the difference in charges between the 
FSAVC and the in-house AVC. 
Mrs D didnt accept Avivas offer. She believed the redress should be based on her having 
joined the added years arrangement, instead of the in-house AVC. So she referred her 
complaint to this service for review. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and based on the information that had been 
provided she thought Avivas offer was fair; she didnt think Mrs D would have bought added 
years. Mrs D didnt accept the investigators opinion. She maintained that she would have 
bought added years had the FSAVC not been mis-sold. 
Aviva was subsequently able to locate further paperwork from the time of sale and an earlier 
complaint Mrs D had made about the sale of the plan. It also said that it was still prepared to 
honour the initial offer it had made Mrs D. Within the paperwork provided was a copy of the 
client profile document that had been completed at the time of the sale. In the additional 
information section of this document, it had been noted that the adviser had asked Mrs D on 
5 December 1994, to investigate and compare the costs and benefits of past added years 
and scheme AVC options available from their current employer. Having had an opportunity 
to do so client now wants to proceed with Colonial Contract. Mrs D had signed this 
statement and dated it 10 January 1995.  
The investigator forwarded a copy of the new documentation to Mrs D, along with Avivas 
comments, and confirmed that her view remained the same; the complaint should be upheld 
on the basis that Mrs D would have joined the AVC arrangement had the FSAVC not been 
mis-sold. The investigator asked if Mrs D still wished to pursue matters or accept the offer. 
Mrs D confirmed that she would still like an ombudsman to consider matters. 
In summary, Mrs D has said: 
 she doesnt agree the AVC would have looked more attractive as the added years 
would have looked preferable when compared to the FSAVC illustrations. 
 At the time of the advice, the FSAVC fund had to be taken in the form of an annuity 
rather than 25% tax free cash and annuity with the remainder. 
 The pension quoted in the illustration was for a single life annuity whereas the TSS 
added years would have provided a valuable spouse benefit. 
 If Aviva had provided a more realistic illustration (rather than the most basic) that 
included a spouse benefit and guarantee, the illustrative figures would have been far 
lower. The growth rates used in the illustrations of 6%, 9% & 12% were correct at the 
time. But they couldn't be guaranteed and furthermore nobody could even start to 
predict what annuity rates would be at the time of retirement. 
The complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For completeness, I should confirm that although Mrs D complained to Aviva in 2021 about 
the sale of the FSAVC, Aviva has confirmed that it consents to us looking at this later 
complaint, raised about the same issue. 
Aviva has already accepted that the FSAVC plan was mis-sold. So all Im considering is 
whether to put things right it needs to base its redress on Mrs D having bought added years 
or joining the in-house AVC. In doing this, Ive thought about the rules that were in place at 
the time of advice. 
Mrs Ds FSAVC plan was sold by an adviser that was tied to Aviva. In late 1994 and early  
1995 a tied adviser could only recommend products provided by the company they worked 
for. And they had to follow the rules set in 1988 by LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit 
Trust Regulatory Organisation) and adapted by the Personal Investment Authority (PIA - a 
predecessor of the Financial Conduct Authority) in 1994. 
Amongst other things, the LAUTRO code of conduct said advisers should exercise due skill, 
care and diligence and deal fairly with investors. And they had to have regard to any rights 
under an occupational scheme and give consumers all relevant information. 
In the case of Mrs D, Id expect the adviser to have known that in house options would be 
available. Id also expect the adviser to have mentioned the generic benefits of the in-house 
options. These generic benefits would include that: 
 Money purchase AVCs could potentially offer lower charges than the FSAVC Added years might have been available 
 That Mrs Ds employer might match or top-up the amount she paid into an in-house 
option
And if the adviser couldnt make further enquiries with the employer, potentially due to being 
tied to Aviva, I would have expected the adviser to recommend that Mrs D explored those 
options herself with the scheme, before considering whether to take out an FSAVC.
Although I acknowledge Mrs Ds comments, I think the adviser fulfilled their duty in terms of 
the requirements under the rules for added years. I say this because the adviser does 
appear to have made Mrs D aware that added years were an option she could take through 
her employer; the adviser wasnt required to compare the benefits of the added years option 
against the FSAVC. They merely had to make Mrs D aware that added years existed and 
direct her to her employer for more information on this option. It wasnt a requirement for the 
adviser to provide an illustration on the same basis on added years, so it didnt need to 
include a spouse benefit in its illustration. 
In the sales paperwork, there is a note to support a discussion between Mrs D and the 
adviser on the Client Profile more than a month before she agreed to take the FSAVC plan 
out. Mrs D has signed this note directly underneath, which suggests to me that she agreed 
with what the adviser had written. This discussion was also referenced again in the 
recommendation letter. I therefore think that, on balance, Mrs D was made aware that added 
years were an option for her. So while I accept that Mrs D says now that she would have 
bought added years, I wont be asking Aviva to base its redress on her having done this 
because I think the adviser did what they needed to do in terms of making her aware that 
they were an option. 
Its not necessary for me to comment on whether the adviser fulfilled their duty in terms of 
the in-house AVC. This is because Aviva has already accepted the adviser didnt do this and 
it has offered redress on this basis. 
I therefore uphold this complaint on the basis that Mrs D would have joined the in-house 
AVC arrangement instead of taking the FSAVC plan out. As such, I think Avivas offer to 
complete a calculation to compare the difference in charges between the FSAVC and the in-
house AVC is fair. 
Putting things right
Aviva should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance, incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.  
The FSAVC review guidance wasnt intended to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark index is 
used to calculate the difference in charges and (if applicable) any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index. So where the calculation requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared after 1 January 
2005, Aviva should use the CAPS mixed with property index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private Investor Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mrs Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax rate in retirement.   
Aviva should clarify the tax position with Mrs D. If its presumed she will be a 20% tax payer  
in retirement, it should make a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss to adequately 
to reflect this. If presumed to be 40% it should make a notional deduction of 30% overall 
from the loss to adequately reflect this.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I think Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds offer is fair so subject 
to Mrs Ds acceptance, it should complete a loss assessment calculation in line with the 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman