DRN-2815220
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, wont remove adverse 
information from his credit file.
What happened
Mr K had a direct debit set up to make monthly repayments to a Clydesdale credit account. 
In March 2020, Mr K changed banks, and the direct debit to Clydesdale wasnt reinitiated 
from his new account. This meant that the payments to Clydesdale stopped, which caused 
the Clydesdale account to go into arrears and ultimately to be defaulted.
In November 2020, Mr K discovered that Clydesdale had defaulted his account when a 
mortgage application he had made encountered problems leading Mr K to review his credit 
file. Mr K wasnt happy that his account had been defaulted without his knowledge, so he 
made a complaint.
Clydesdale looked at Mr Ks complaint. They explained that they had tried to contact Mr K on 
numerous occasions, but that Mr K hadnt kept his contact details on the account up to date 
which meant that their attempts had been successful. Because of this, Clydesdale didnt feel 
that they had done anything wrong, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with Clydesdales response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also didnt feel that 
Clydesdale could reasonably be held accountable for what happened, so they also didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ks frustration at discovering that this account, which he acknowledges 
that hed forgotten about, had been defaulted by Clydesdale for non-payment.
Mr K would like this service to instruct Clydesdale to remove the default from his credit file as 
he doesnt feel that its fair that such a record should be in place given that payments were 
missed on this account solely as the result of an oversight and not because of any actual 
inability to pay. And indeed, when Mr K became aware of the default, he contacted 
Clydesdale and cleared the outstanding balance on the account in full.
While it is within the remit of this service to instruct a business to amend a credit file, we 
would consider making such an instruction where it can be demonstrated that the default has 
been applied unfairly because of some form of error, either by act or omission, for which that 
business can reasonably held accountable for.
Ultimately, I dont feel thats the case in this instance. Indeed, given that Clydesdale 
attempted to contact Mr K on numerous occasions using the contact information that they 
held on file, its difficult not to conclude that the reason that the default was eventually 
applied here was because Mr K didnt transfer the direct debit over to his new bank account 
and also didnt maintain up to date contact details with Clydesdale so as to enable 
Clydesdale to get in contact with him when the need arose.
Additionally, its important to recognise here that a credit file isnt a record of someones 
ability to maintain payments on an account, but rather is a record of whether someone has 
actually maintained payments on an account  regardless of circumstance. Clydesdale have 
stated that have a responsibility to make accurate reports to the credit reference agencies, 
and its correct that they have that responsibility.
And while I can understand that Mr K would prefer not to have this default recorded on his 
credit file, I cant reasonably say that Clydesdale have acted unfairly either in how they 
attempted to contact Mr K in the months leading up the default being applied, or in regard to 
their applying the default when the payments required to avoid it werent received.
Im aware that Mr K feels that Clydesdale could have done more to try to contact him. But 
the onus is on Mr K to maintain up to date contact information, and Im satisfied that in trying 
to contact Mr K by post, email, and telephone, that Clydesdales attempts to contact Mr K 
were reasonable and in line with what this service would expect.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr K was wanting here, but it follows that I wont 
be upholding this complaint or asking Clydesdale to take any further action at this time. I 
hope that Mr K can understand, given what I have explained, why I have made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman