DRN-3668770
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Nationwide Building Society dealt with his overdraft balance.
What happened
Mr M says he switched his bank account from Nationwide, but it kept returning payments he 
made for his overdrawn balance. He says the balance was passed to a debt collection 
business and it also returned the payment. Mr M says Nationwide has dealt badly with this 
issue and failed to keep to multiple promises. He says the problem has continued for two 
years and has caused distress and inconvenience. Mr M would like the debt written off and 
any adverse information removed from his credit file.
Nationwide says Mr M switched his account and so he needed to make a payment direct to it 
either via a telephone or in branch. It says it couldnt accept a transfer and told Mr M that. 
Nationwide says Mr M made a payment to the debt collection business which had to be 
returned for that same reason. It accepts it didnt call Mr M as promised and paid £25 
compensation and says it tried to agree a repayment plan with Mr M but couldnt do so. 
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Nationwide had told Mr M how to make the payment from 2020 onwards and was 
obliged to report accurate information to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs).
Mr M doesnt accept that view and in summary says Nationwide delayed sending his debt to 
a collection business and says the payments were returned more than once. He says he 
requested a repayment plan and says his offer to settle the debt was rejected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision and about how strongly he feels about 
this complaint. But Im satisfied that Mr M owed Nationwide the money and it was his 
responsibility to pay the balance by the suggested methods given to him by Nationwide.
I have looked carefully at Nationwides records and can see that it told Mr M that he needed 
to make a manual payment to it either via a telephone or in branch and that the reason for 
that was because Mr M had switched his account. Im satisfied Nationwide told Mr Ms 
representatives that information and explained it to him in its letter as well as in telephone 
calls. So, I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly by rejecting the payment method Mr M used 
and that it fairly told him how he should make a payment. It is not clear if Mr M has now 
repaid the debt in full or in part using the methods Nationwide told him to use.
I appreciate Mr M says that he made a reasonable offer to settle the debt. But I think it up to 
Nationwide to decide if it wishes to accept such an offer when exercising its commercial 
judgement and is not something, I can fairly interfere in. I can see that Nationwide did place 
Mr Ms account on hold and did look at a repayment plan which it decided wasnt possible 
due to Mr Ms financial position at the time. 
There is no question here that Nationwide didnt call Mr M back as agreed. I have not seen 
any evidence of other such missed calls but am satisfied Nationwide has fairly apologised for 
that and paid appropriate compensation. I appreciate that is not the main part of Mr Ms 
complaint.
I dont think it clear if a default has been registered on Mr Ms credit file and if so when. I 
cant see Mr M has provided us with his credit file on this complaint. If a default has been 
registered, then I am satisfied that Nationwide would not have made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by doing so for a debt owed for some significant time. But I hope Nationwide will look 
at the date of that default if registered and consider when the relationship between it and Mr 
M had broken down. It may in those circumstances consider if it ought to be backdated to 
closer to the point it clear Mr M was unable to repay the debt. 
I also appreciate Mr M says Nationwide delayed sending his debt to the collection business. 
I am satisfied its up to Nationwide to decide when it does so and cant see what difference 
that made in any event. 
I make clear to Mr M that even if I had upheld his complaint then I wouldnt have directed this 
debt be written off in circumstances where Mr M clearly owed Nationwide the money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 November 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman