DRN-1460932
The complaint
Mr C complains that American Express Insurance Services Europe Limited (Amex) 
stopped sending him alerts which caused him miss payments to his credit card account. He 
wants any late payment markers removed from his credit report. 
What happened
Mr C has a credit card with Amex. In June 2019, he says he stopped receiving alerts to 
remind him that his payment was due. Both his June and August 2019 payments were made 
late, but within a few days of the due date, so Amex didnt record a late payment marker.
The payment for September 2019 was also late, but around nine days after it was due, and 
wasnt made in the month of September. So Amex did record a late payment marker on that 
occasion. 
Mr C says Amex should remove this from his credit file on the basis that it failed to send him 
the alerts hed set up on his account. But Amex say the alerts were sent. Mr C disagrees as 
he said when he called to complain, he was told that the alerts would be reinstated. And he 
started to receive them again after that.
Amex says that Mr C has held his account since 2011 and the payment due date hasnt 
changed. So regardless of whether an alert was send, its his responsibility to ensure 
payments are made on time. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Hed seen information from Amex to show that 
text and email alerts had been sent throughout 2019. And in particular, an email alert in 
September 2019 was shown with a status of delivered. And he said regardless of whether 
the alert was sent, Mr C had an obligation under the terms and conditions of his account to 
make payments on time  which he hadnt done.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ive seen a screenshot of Amexs system which shows the alerts were set up in September 
2019. And that several texts and emails were sent to him that month  the status of which 
says delivered. 
I appreciate Mr C says he didnt receive these. And that he was told on the phone by Amex 
that it would reinstate them. Whilst both of these points may be true, the evidence suggests 
to me the alerts were set up and were sent. 
But in any case, I agree with our investigator that even if the alerts hadnt been sent, Mr C 
still had an obligation under the terms and conditions of his account to make his payment on time. The alerts are only supposed to be an aid; they dont replace Mr Cs own obligation to 
manage his account. And given the card had been in use since 2011, Im satisfied he knew 
when his payments were due.
According to Mr C he hadnt received an alert since June 2019. If this was the case, it 
follows he wouldve been on notice of a potential problem with the alerts from this time. And 
it seems therefore he shouldve known he would needed to make alternative arrangements 
to remind himself to make his payments but he didnt. So Im not persuaded that Amex is to 
blame for the late payment in September 2019.
All financial businesses are obligated to report true and accurate information to the credit 
referencing agencies. This is part of the rules and regulations that apply to them and failure 
to do so can result in serious consequences for a business. So I think Amex were correct to 
record a late payment in September 2019 as this is true and accurate information.
For these reasons Im satisfied Amex has acted fairly and wont be directing it to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman