DRN-1383666
 
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that the National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) refused to deal with a claim she made on her legal expenses insurance policy.
All references to the NFU include its agents. 
What happened
Mrs B had a legal expenses policy with the NFU through her home insurance. She had this 
policy for many years- at least between 2008 and 2018. 
In 2013 Mrs B employed a builder to work on an extension at her property at a cost of 
around £48,000. She wasnt happy with the quality of the work and complained. She became 
involved in a legal dispute with the builder and her legal fees came to around £45,000. In 
2018 she obtained a surveyors report which said there were serious issues with the work.
In 2014 Mrs B got in touch with the NFU in relation to the building work. The NFU said this 
was considered as a claim under the contract disputes section of the policy but was declined 
as the contract value was over £5,000 which was something the policy excluded.
In August 2017 Mrs B made a claim on her legal expenses policy with the NFU asking it to 
cover her legal fees. The NFU turned the claim down and said that at the time when the 
dispute arose, in 2013, Mrs Bs policy only covered her for contract disputes worth up to 
£5,000. The NFU said that: 
Under the policy the date of occurrence was the date of the event that lead to the 
claim i.e. the building of the extension which happened in 2013 so the 2013 policy 
wording would apply. 
The limit for such disputes increased from £5,000 to £50,000 but not until 2017.
Mrs B didnt contact it until after she incurred legal fees and before it had a chance to 
provide its written acceptance- which is something she was required to do under the 
policy terms. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She said in 2014 she was only unhappy about some minor issues and it 
wasnt until 2018 that she became aware of the breach of contract.  
Mrs B complained to the NFU in 2019 after having paid her legal costs herself. She said she 
didnt realise there were serious issues with the building until she got the surveyors report in 
2018. She said her solicitor told her this would be the date when the breach of contract 
started. She said the limit at the time was £50,000 and also that the policy at the time said 
that the dispute did not necessarily have to start during that policy year. The NFU didnt 
change its decision and Mrs B complained to us. 
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She said 
at the time when Mrs B made her first claim in 2014 the policy excluded contracts with a 
value over £5,000. She said in relation to the 2017 claim, the 2017 policy terms applied but those terms say that the date of occurrence is the date the insured could reasonably be 
expected to become aware of the breach of contract and that it has to be within the policy 
year i.e. in 2017. She said Mrs B was reasonably aware of the breach of contract around 
2013/2014 when she first noticed the poor workmanship so her claim was also not covered 
under the 2017 policy. Our investigator said the surveyors report shed seen was from 2018 
which is after Mrs Bs claim to the NFU in 2017 so Mrs B was aware of more serious issues 
with the building even before seeing the surveyors report.  
Mrs B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. She said she didnt make a 
claim in 2014 but just an enquiry. 
Our investigator said Mrs B herself had referred to this as a claim in correspondence to the 
NFU when she made her 2017 claim. Our investigator said even if Mrs B wasnt reasonably 
aware of the breach of contract by 2014, she wouldve been by 2016 when she contacted a 
solicitor. The policy limit didnt increase until 2017. 
Mrs B repeated that according to her solicitor she wasnt reasonably aware there was a 
breach of contract until she received a surveyors report which was concluded in early 2018. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
The policies
Ive seen Mrs Bs policy booklets for 2008, 2015, 2017, 2018. And Ive seen renewal 
documents for 2013, 2015, 2016 and 2017. 
The NFU has said that the renewal documents should be read together with the most recent 
policy booklet. Also some of the renewal documents themselves say that they include a 
section called changes to your insurance when there are changes that may affect the 
insureds decision to renew. They also state that a new policy booklet will be sent if there are 
significant changes. 
The policy wording has changed slightly throughout the years as have some of the policy 
limits. 
From what Ive seen, Mrs Bs legal expenses policy has always covered her for contract 
disputes. The policy also states that the NFU agrees to provide cover subject to certain 
terms including the date of occurrence being during the period of cover. 
From what I can see the definition for period of cover has remained the same throughout 
and is defined as the period as stated in the policy schedule and for any other period for 
which We (the NFU) accept the premium. In other words, this means the policy year. 
In the 2008 policy booklet the definition for date of occurrence is the date of the event 
which may lead to a claim. And if there is more than one event arising at the same time or 
from the same cause it is the date of the first event. 
From what Ive seen, from 2015 the date of occurrence for contract disputes changed to 
the date when the insured could reasonably be expected to become aware of the breach of 
contract. The biggest change in terms of contract disputes seems to have taken place in 2017. 
The policy booklets up to 2016 say that cover is provided for contract disputes arising from 
an agreement or alleged agreement the insured entered into in a personal capacity for 
buying or hiring goods or services provided, among other things, that the agreement was 
entered into during the period of cover. But contract disputes involving construction work on 
any land or converting, designing, converting or extending any building where the contract 
value exceeds £5,000 (including VAT) are excluded. 
The 2017 booklet says that contract disputes involving construction work on any land, 
converting, designing or extending any building where the contract value exceeds £50,000 
are excluded. 
This is supported by the renewal documents for 2017 which also state that the policy has 
been enhanced and that the contract disputes cover has increased from £5,000 to £50,000. 
It also says that the requirement for the agreement to have been entered during the period of 
cover no longer applies. So, contracts entered into before the 2017 policy year are 
potentially covered. 
Mrs B complained to the NFU saying that the contract disputes limit changed from £50,000 
to £5,000 and then back again. But on the evidence Ive seen the limit was only increased 
once- in 2017.
The 2014 claim/enquiry
Mrs B said in 2014 she complained about some minor issues to do with the work. The NFU 
said this was a claim which was rejected as the contract value was over £5,000. Mrs B said 
this wasnt a formal claim but an enquiry, but even so I dont think this changes anything 
because I dont think she was covered in any event.
Under the 2014 policy the date of occurrence was the date of the event which may lead to 
a claim. I dont necessarily think this is the same date as the date the building work started 
or the contract was entered into, as the NFU has said, because I dont think that Mrs B 
wouldve necessarily known she had cause to complain at the time. So I dont think the 
event was necessarily the start of the building work which happened in 2013. I think it 
would be fairer to say the event is whatever made Mrs B realise that there was something 
potentially wrong with the building work. 
So I think the event that lead to the claim happened in 2014 and this is what lead Mrs B to 
complain to the builder and to make a claim or an enquiry to the NFU. As the contract 
disputes limit was still £5,000 at the time, I think the NFU was acting within its policy terms 
when it rejected it. Even if the later definition for date of occurrence applied in 2014 (i.e. the 
date when Mrs B was reasonably expected to become aware of a breach of contract) I think 
this would again be the date when Mrs B complained about the building work meaning she 
still wouldnt be covered. 
The 2017 claim
Mrs B said the date of occurrence was after 2017 (when the policy terms changed) and 
after she received the surveyors report. She said up until that point she didnt know the 
extent of the breach of contract.
As I said above, by 2017 the date of occurrence definition changed to the date when the 
insured could reasonably be expected to become aware of the breach of contract. But I dont 
think this should be interpreted to mean the date when the insured realises or shouldve realised the extent of the breach of contract- but just that there was a breach. So just 
because Mrs B was more informed as to the extent of the damage by 2017/8, this doesnt 
mean that she wasnt or couldnt have been reasonably aware that there was a breach of 
contract sooner. 
As I said above, I think Mrs B was reasonably aware of the breach of contract or of the event 
that may lead to a claim (i.e. either of the two date of occurrence definitions) by 2014. And 
if that was the case, the 2017 policy wouldnt cover her either because the date of 
occurrence predates the period of cover i.e.2017. 
But even if I didnt, I think she was reasonably aware of a breach of contract/an event that 
may lead to a claim by July 2016 when she instructed a solicitor in relation to the work done 
on her extension. She said it was her solicitor that advised her to obtain a surveyors report. 
As I said above, I think she wouldve been aware of the breach of contract already and she 
wanted to see the extent of the remedial work by instructing a surveyor. This again would 
preclude her from claiming in 2017 because the policy terms at the time state that the date of 
occurrence should be within the policy year.  
When Mrs B made her claim to the NFU in 2017 she said she was doing so as her contract 
disputes cover increased in 2017 to £50,000 and as the pre-inception clause had been 
removed i.e. the contract no longer had to be entered into during the period of cover. But 
even with those changes the policy still states that the date of occurrence should be during 
the period of cover. This means that the date Mrs B could reasonably have been expected to 
become aware of the breach of contract must have been at the latest 2017. But as I said 
above I think she was aware in 2014 when she first contacted the NFU and by 2016 when 
she instructed a solicitor. So I dont think the policy would cover her in any event. 
Also when Mrs B made her claim in 2017 she told the NFU that the dispute had been 
ongoing for the previous four years. She said there were a number of issues both structurally 
and aesthetically and that these had been identified by a surveyor and a structural engineer. 
She said the builder had admitted to some issues over the years and rectified the structural 
issues under her instruction and under his own structural engineers instructions. I think this 
further reinforces the argument that Mrs B was aware of the breach of contract before 2017- 
when the limit was increased. 
I appreciate Mrs B will be disappointed with my decision but for the reasons Ive given, I 
dont think the NFU, as her legal expenses insurer, acted in a way that was unfair or 
unreasonable or outside its policy terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman