DRN-2096502
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund a disputed cash withdrawal made 
from his debit card.
What happened
On 31 January 2020, Mr M made a cash withdrawal over the counter with a business I will 
refer to as P. He did this using his TSB debit card. On 3 February, Mr M contacted TSB 
disputing the withdrawal. He said, he only wanted to withdraw £200 at the time, but later 
discovered that £400 had been debited from his account.
TSB informed Mr M that he would receive a temporary refund within two working days.  
Having not received this, Mr M contacted TSB again. They said, the refund should be 
credited to his account on 7 February. As this didnt happen, Mr M raised a complaint.
TSB investigated and decided not to refund the disputed withdrawal. They said, Mr M had 
initially told them that he had made a single £200 transaction on 31 January. However, 
during TSBs investigation, they concluded that two separate £200 transactions had in fact 
been made. Mr M acknowledged this and said: during the first transaction he had taken out 
his card from the terminal too soon, so the transaction wasnt completed. Because of this, he 
had to complete a second transaction.
Having considered this, TSB decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. They said, he had not 
provided them with the correct information to raise his dispute, so they had made no error in 
declining it. That said, TSB paid Mr M £21.00 for the costs of his calls to them as a gesture 
of goodwill. TSB say that Mr M accepted this and agreed for his complaint to be closed. 
They also say that a summary resolution communication was issued, which contained 
information on how to refer his complaint to our service.
TSB say on 13 February, Mr M contacted them again, stating he was unhappy he had not 
received a refund, and so wanted his complaint reopened. Thereafter, several calls took 
place between Mr M and TSB  during some of which Mr M says, TSB advisors continued to 
promise him a temporary refund.
After a further investigation, TSB again decided not to refund the disputed withdrawal, and 
so didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. P provided TSB with evidence which showed that two 
transactions had been made on 31 January. P also told TSB that they had viewed CCTV 
footage from the day, which showed that Mr M had made two successful withdrawal 
transactions: each for £200.
In relation to Mr Ms assertions that he was promised a temporary refund, TSB said it 
wouldve been reasonable for him to have been told this. However, because of his testimony 
about the disputed withdrawal changing, and his previous dispute claim history: TSB 
declined to make a temporary refund on this occasion.  Unhappy with TSBs decision, Mr M 
referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered his complaint and didnt uphold it. In broad summary, 
she concluded that Mr M made two genuine transactions on 31 January totalling £400. She 
also felt that TSB had acted fairly by not crediting Mr Ms account with a temporary refund 
considering the circumstances. 
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings, so he asked for an ombudsman to 
consider his case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Disputed withdrawal
TSB have provided Mr Ms account statements, Ps system notes and emails concerning the 
disputed withdrawal. Having carefully considered these, Im satisfied they show that two 
separate transactions of £200 were made on 31 January from Mr Ms TSB debit card.
Unfortunately, due to the passage of time, Ps CCTV footage from 31 January is no longer 
available. However, Ive seen emails from P confirming it had been viewed and showed that 
Mr M had made two separate transactions and was given £400 on the day. P also confirmed 
that the branch Mr M used didnt have a surplus on 31 January. I think it is reasonable for 
TSB to rely on this information from P when deciding to decline the claim. Whilst it clearly 
would be helpful if the CCTV were still available, I think it is most likely that what P told TSB 
at the time is what the CCTV showed. 
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair for TSB to conclude that Mr M had made 
two £200 withdrawals and to hold him liable for them. 
Customer service issues
TSB accept that their advisors continued to refer to the disputed withdrawal as a duplicate 
payment, despite being aware on 5 February that two transactions had been made. TSB 
have said this mightve potentially caused delays. Theyve also said that it was not 
unreasonable when their advisors informed Mr M that he would receive a temporary refund, 
as this is the process in the normal course of events. However, because of Mr Ms 
inconsistencies about the disputed withdrawal and the previous dispute claim history on his 
account  TSB decided not to make a temporary refund.
Taking everything into account, I dont think that was unreasonable for TSB not to make a 
temporary refund. Even if TSB had made such a refund, they would have later re-debited it 
when they concluded Mr M was responsible for both withdrawals (which as above Ive found 
to be fair). So, Mr M wouldnt have ended up in a different position. 
Im not persuaded that TSB are responsible for poor service to the extent that compensation 
needs to be paid. Essentially Mr M varied the version of events he had told them and I 
therefore think its understandable that it took longer for TSB to look into things in light of the 
new information received. And whilst I appreciate Mr M made many calls to TSB, it appears 
that the majority of these were him chasing frequent updates rather than TSB failing to keep him appraised of any developments. 
I think TSBs gesture of goodwill of £21.00 for the costs of Mr Ms telephone calls was fair in 
the circumstances.
So, taking all the above points together  I find, on balance, that Mr M made the disputed 
withdrawal. It follows that TSB are not required to refund this to him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman