DRN-4110079
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of her car insurance claim.  
Mrs W is being represented in her complaint by Mr W.
All references to Ageas also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy says the insurer will pay the market value of the vehicle at the time of loss 
or damage. 
The policy sets out the insurer calculates market value by looking at the cost of 
replacing the vehicle with one of a similar make, model, age, mileage, and condition.
My role isnt to value a vehicle, but to see if the insurer has made a fair offer in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. To do this we use the relevant trade 
guides as we think its the fairest way to value second-hand vehicles. We find these 
persuasive because their valuations are based on continued nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out 
what the likely selling price for the same vehicle would be. If a guide price is 
significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its reasonable to ignore it.
Ageas has provided evidence to show it has consulted the relevant trade guides. And 
I have also referenced the relevant trade guides. 
Searches on a vehicle of similar make, age, model, and mileage, from three guides, 
returned prices between around £2,040 and £2,395. Ageas have offered Mrs W 
£2,351. Which is in between the valuations and what our service would expect to see 
in the circumstances. 
Ive considered Mr W comments our service has said online vehicles are selling at, or 
close to advertised prices more recently. And the advertisements hes provided which 
show similar vehicles at higher prices.
One of the advertisements is for a vehicle with around 10,000 miles less on the 
odometer than reported on Mrs Ws vehicle. A difference in vehicle mileage such as 
this can significantly affect the value of the vehicle, so Im not persuaded by this 
example.
The second vehicle, with similar mileage to Mrs Ws vehicle, is advertised at around 
£2,495. Which is broadly in line with what Ageas has offered Mrs W. 
I understand Mr W feels Ageas offer isnt fair. Particularly, as he has explained, 
Mrs W was not at fault for the claim. But based on what Ive set out above, Im 
satisfied the settlement Ageas has now offered is in line with what our service would 
expect. And Im more persuaded the prices in the trade guides are an accurate 
reflection of the vehicles market value. So, Im satisfied Ageas have acted fairly.
I can see Mr W has also referenced the cost of recovering the original vehicle from 
salvage. this is a commercial arrangement Ageas has with its salvage agents and 
therefore we wouldnt become involved in this. However, from reviewing matters I 
cant see theyve treated Mrs W differently to any other policyholder in the same 
circumstances.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman