DRN-4288251
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that an ISA transfer he requested from another provider to Yorkshire 
Building Society (YBS) went missing for several weeks. 
What happened
To briefly summarise: Mr S instructed an ISA transfer to YBS from another provider. But, 
while Mr S received confirmation from the other provider that the money had been 
transferred from his old ISA account, it wasnt received into his new ISA account opened 
with YBS. It later transpired that the money had been received by a third-party clearing bank, 
appointed by YBS, who hadnt then transferred the money on to YBS so that the transfer 
could be completed. Mr S wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
YBS apologised for what had happened and made a payment of £1,088.39 to Mr S because 
of his not having access to his money for approximately six weeks. And YBS paid a further 
£500.35 to Mr S for the trouble and upset hed incurred while trying to resolve the issue. Mr 
S wasnt satisfied with YBSs response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt the response that YBS had 
issued to Mr Ss complaint, including the payments referred to above, already represented a 
fair resolution to what had happened. Mr S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was 
escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. Instead, this service is an informal, impartial 
dispute resolution service. And while we do take relevant law and regulation into account 
when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed on determining whether we feel a fair or 
unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial perspective, after taking all the factors and 
circumstances of a complaint into consideration. 
I also note that Mr S has provided several detailed submissions to this service regarding his 
complaint. Id like to thank Mr S for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr S notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr S and YBS. Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
YBS have accepted that the ISA transfer didnt progress as it should have, and that Mr S 
didnt receive the standard of service he was entitled to expect surrounding the transfer.
When a business accepts that it made a mistake  as YBS have here  it would generally be 
expected by this service that the business would take the action necessary to return the 
complainant to the position they should be in  as much as reasonably possible  had the 
mistake never occurred. And it would also be generally expected that the business would 
fairly compensate the complainant for any trouble and upset the mistake may have caused. 
Having considered YBSs response to Mr Ss complaint, I feel that theyve done that here. 
Notably, the transferred money was eventually recalled by the other provider, before YBS 
were able to complete their investigation into what had taken place and before YBS took the 
necessary action themselves to resolve the situation. 
But given that Mr S had no access to his money for several weeks here because of the 
actions of the clearing bank appointed by YBS, it seems fair and reasonable to me that YBS 
should provide recompense to Mr S for his not having access to his money during that time. 
And I feel the £1,088.39 YBS have paid to Mr S does provide fair recompense in this regard. 
I also feel the £500.35 that YBS have paid to Mr S regarding his call costs, mileage costs, 
and for the upset and trouble he incurred because of what happened, already represents fair 
compensation for those points. And while I accept that matters of compensation can be 
subjective and that Mr S may feel that a higher compensation amount is merited here, I can 
confirm that this amount is commensurate with what I might have instructed YBS to pay to 
Mr S for the inconvenience and worry he encountered, had they not already done so.
In taking this position Ive considered the impact of what happened on Mr S, as hed 
described it, as well as the general framework which this service uses when considering 
compensation amounts for trouble and upset  details of which are on this services website. 
And, having done so, I feel that £500.35 is a fair amount.
YBS have also apologised to Mr S for assuming that, once the money was returned to the 
other provider, he would still want to transfer his ISA balance to YBS and to have initiated a 
new ISA transfer request without his instruction or confirmation. 
I can appreciate how this would have been upsetting for Mr S. But I feel that this second 
request was initiated by YBSs complaint handler in an attempt to assist Mr S and with his 
best interests in mind. And I also note that this second transferred amount was returned to 
the other provider as if the second ISA transfer had never taken place. And as such, I feel 
that the apology issued by YBS to Mr S for initiating the second transfer without his 
confirmation already represents a fair outcome to this aspect of Mr Ss complaint.
Finally, Im aware that YBS have issued a further offer of £25 compensation to Mr S in 
regard to his dissatisfaction with how they handled his complaint. However, how a business 
handles a complaint isnt a regulated financial matter and so therefore isnt within the scope 
of what this service can consider. As such, Im unable to comment on this point further.  
All of which means that I feel that the response YBS issued to Mr Ss complaint already 
represents a fair resolution to what happened here. And it follows from this that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing YBS to take any further action.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr S was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman