DRN-3576825
The complaint
Mrs J complains that a van purchased with finance from Billing Finance Ltd (BF) wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In January 2022 Mrs J was supplied with a van and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with BF.
Mrs J arranged to have the van collected from the dealership by a courier company and 
delivered it to her.
Mrs J says that when the van was delivered, she noticed that it had considerable damage. 
She also noticed that the van had 1000 more miles on the odometer than advertised.
Mrs J contacted the dealership, but it said it wasnt able to help and that it was down to the 
courier company.
Mrs J complained to BF seeking a refund. In response, BF said that Mrs J had accepted the 
van in its current condition, so it wasnt able to do anything about the cosmetic damage. In 
relation to the mileage discrepancy, BF said it had investigated this with the supplying dealer 
and agreed to refund £80.
Mrs J remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that although there was a milage 
discrepancy, the industry standard price guide indicated a difference in value of £35, and 
she thought that the offer of £80 was fair. In relation to the damage to the paintwork, the 
investigator said there wasnt any evidence to show that there had been a misrepresentation 
and that it was Mrs Js responsibility to check the condition of the car before collecting it from 
the dealership.
Mrs J didnt agree. She said the dealership had told her that the van was in mint condition.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BF has acknowledged that there was a mileage discrepancy. The van was advertised with 
mileage of 114,000 and the odometer reading provided by Mrs J shows mileage of 115,072. 
This is a difference of around 1000 miles. Ive checked the industry price guide based on 
these mileages and based on this, theres a difference in value of £35. In the circumstances, 
I think BFs offer of £80 is fair and reasonable and I wont be asking them to do anything 
further.
In relation to the paintwork, Ive thought about whether the van was misrepresented. Mrs J 
has said that the dealership described the van as being in mint condition. There arent any 
records of the discussions between Mrs J and the dealership so I cant be certain of exactly 
what was said. In these circumstances, I need to look at the available documentary evidence 
and decide whats most likely to have happened. Ive looked at the advert for the van. It 
states that the van is a lovely example but it doesnt describe the van as being in mint 
condition. So Im not persuaded that theres been a misrepresentation here.
Ive taken the age and mileage of the van into account. At the point of supply, the van was 
around 9 years old and had covered around 114,000 miles. Id expect a second hand van to 
have a degree of wear and tear, which would include cosmetic damage.
Ive looked at the video provided by Mrs J. This was taken by the courier who collected the 
van on behalf of Mrs J. Ive also looked at the photos taken by Mrs J. Although I can see 
some scratches and dents in the photos taken by Mrs J, I cant see these in the video. So, I 
cant be certain that this damage was present when the van was collected from the dealer. 
Even if the damage was present when the van was collected, I think it reasonable to expect 
that a second hand van would have some wear and tear
In respect of the condition of the van generally, its Mrs Js responsibility to make sure she 
was happy with the van before she accepted it. In this case, the courier (acting on behalf of 
Mrs J) accepted the van in its current condition.
For the reasons Ive given, I dont think BF needs to do anything further. There isnt enough 
evidence for me to say that theres been a misrepresentation and the car was accepted in its 
current condition by Mrs J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman