DRN-3380855
The complaint
Mrs W complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out
appropriate affordability checks. Had it done so, then Mrs W wouldnt have been provided
with the loans because she was in a cycle of borrowing.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mrs Ws complaint. Morses didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to not uphold 
Mrs Ws complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this in italics and a smaller font and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mrs W took three loans between November 2014 and March 2016 Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
dateloan 
repayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £200.00 28/11/2014 03/07/2015 34 £10.00
2 £400.00 03/07/2015 13/11/2015 50 £14.00
3 £500.00 04/03/2016 05/08/2016 33 £25.00
Following Mrs Ws complaint to Morses it issued its final response letter on the matter. In it,
Morses said that it had carried out proportionate checks which showed the loans as being
affordable. So Morses feels it was appropriate for these loans to have been provided.
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Morses to have granted loans 1 - 2. But the
adjudicator thought that loan 3 shouldnt have been lent because in his view, the weekly
repayment Mrs W was going to be making represented a significant proportion of her
declared weekly income.
Mrs Ws representative told us that she agreed with the recommendation to uphold her final
loan.
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators assessment. It said that although Mrs Ws
disposable income was low for loan three at £120, she also had a low amount of outgoings
and Morses doesnt feel the £25 per week payment was unaffordable or unsustainable.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mrs W agreed with the adjudicators assessment about the outcome of the complaint, which
includes not upholding her complaint about loans one and two. So, it seems this lending isnt
in dispute and so I no longer think that I need to make a finding about it. But I have kept
these loans in mind when thinking about the overall lending relationship between Morses
and Mrs W.
Instead, this decision will focus on whether Morses did anything wrong when it granted loan
three.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Mrs W could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Morsess checks could have taken into account a
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments,
and Mrs Ws income and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs W. These factors include:
Mrs W having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mrs W having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mrs W coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mrs W.
Morses was required to establish whether Mrs W could sustainably repay the loans  not just
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mrs W was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mrs Ws complaint.
Loan 3
This was the third loan Mrs W had taken in little over a year, but it is worth pointing out that
there was a four-month period preceding this loan where Mrs W hadnt been making
repayments to Morses.
When this loan was approved, I can see Morses took details of Mrs Ws declared weekly
income of £170 and it asked her for details of her outgoings which she declared as being
£50 per week. So Morses may have felt that the loan was affordable based on the
information that she had provided.The adjudicator upheld this loan because in his view, Mrs W needed to use a significant
proportion of her income to make her contractual repayments. I can see, based on the loan
amount and term, that her payments had increased by more than two-fold, since she started
borrowing from Morses.
I can also quite understand why in this case the adjudicator thought the loan should be
upheld. But I dont agree with him in relation to this because as Ive said about there was a
gap in lending before this loan was approved, and there wasnt any obvious repayment
problems when Mrs W repaid loans one and two.
So, while, Mrs W may have needed to have paid a significant proportion of her income, in
this case I dont think that, on its own is sufficient to uphold this loan.
But that doesnt mean Morses carried out a proportionate check. Mrs W had been making
repayments to Morses for around a year by the time loan two had been repaid. And as Ive
said above, Mrs W was making a not insignificant commitment to Morses for another 33
weeks.
Overall, I dont think it was reasonable for Morses to have relied on what Mrs W declared to
it about her income and expenditure. Instead, I think it needed to gain a full understanding of
Mrs Ws actual financial position to ensure loan three was affordable.
This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of outgoings, or
looking at bank statements and/or a full review of Mrs Ws credit report. This mightve helped
verify information provided and revealed whether there was any other information that
Morses mightve needed to consider about Mrs Ws general financial position.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold this loan, I have to be
satisfied that had Morses carried out a proportionate check it wouldve likely discovered that
Mrs W couldnt afford this loan.
Mrs W has told us she cant provide the Financial Ombudsman with either copies of her
bank statements or a copy of her full credit report. So, I dont know what further checks may
have highlighted about her financial situation at the time.
Without any further information from Mrs W about her living costs, its difficult for me to
conclude what Morses may have seen if it had made better checks. Although Morses didnt
carry out proportionate checks, Im not able to conclude that further checks wouldve led it to
conclude that these loans were unaffordable for Mrs W.
Looking at everything together though, Ive not seen quite enough evidence to suggest
Morses shouldnt have lent loan three. Even considering what Mrs W declared to Morses for
her income and expenditure, the loan appeared affordable. Im not minded therefore to think
Morses was wrong to have provided this loan.
As this is the case, Im not intending to uphold Mrs Ws complaint about all her loans.
Response to the provisional decision
Both Mrs W and Morses were asked to provide any further comments and evidence they 
wanted the Financial Ombudsman Service to consider no later than 16 March 2022. 
Morses didnt respond to the provisional decision and so it hasnt provided anything further 
for the Financial Ombudsman to consider. 
Mrs W, through her representative provided the Financial Ombudsman with a copy of her full 
credit report. But she didnt provide any further comments or evidence for consideration. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Morses hasnt provided anything further for the Financial Ombudsman to consider, so I have 
nothing further to add here. 
However, Mrs W has now provided a copy of her credit file following the provisional decision. 
Ive therefore reviewed the credit file, to see whether at the time the third loan was approved 
Morses wouldve likely realised the loan wase either unaffordable or unsustainable for 
her. 
However, having looked at the credit file, while I can see some adverse information, this was 
recorded after the final Morses loan was advanced so it wouldnt have been aware of this at 
the time the loan was given. 
For the entries that were active at the time of the loan, there isnt anything to suggest 
financial difficulties or the loan would be unaffordable for Mrs W. For example, there arent 
any missed payment markers around the time of the advance, other repayment problem, 
signs she was over indebted or any information that may have indicated Mrs W was having 
financial problems.
Taking into account what Ive seen in the credit report, Im now of the view that even though 
for the reasons I gave in the provisional decision, Morses didnt carry out a proportionate 
check before it advanced loan three. Further checks, in my view, based on what Ive seen 
wouldnt have made a difference to the decision to lend  Morses wouldve still likely 
provided the loan. 
The information Mrs W has provided from her credit report, has in this case, not changed my 
view on what is a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint, and I am not upholding her 
complaint.  
I appreciate Mrs W will be disappointed with the outcome that has been reached on her 
case, but I hope my explanation has been useful in explaining why I have reached the 
conclusions that I have.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman