DRN-1937589
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complained that they were mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
associated with their mortgages by Newcastle Building Society (Newcastle BS).
What happened
In February1996 Mr and Mrs A applied for a mortgage with Newcastle BS and in April 1996 
Mr and Mrs A completed an application form for a PPI policy related to the mortgage, to 
provide cover only for Mr A. The mortgage and the PPI were active from the same time, 
although applied for on different dates. 
In August 1998 Mr and Mrs A applied for a new mortgage. In December 1998 they again 
completed a separate application form for a PPI policy to cover Mr A for the new mortgage. 
Both the mortgage and PPI policy started in January 1999.
Mr and Mrs A have now complained the PPI policies were mis-sold. 
Newcastle BS said it wasnt upholding the complaint the PPI was mis-sold. It also 
considered if any excess commission and profit share that had been part of the premiums 
Mr and Mrs A had paid, needed to be refunded but said the mortgages in this case were not 
caught by this.  
Mr and Mrs A werent happy with what Newcastle BS had said about the mis-sale and 
brought their complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI was mis-sold and what Newcastle BS had said 
was fair. 
Mr and Mrs A remained unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider their complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs As case.
Mr and Mrs A have complained about several PPI policies being mis-sold. In this decision I 
am only considering the policies that were sold alongside mortgages applied for in 1996 and 
1998. Other PPI polices complained about are being dealt with separately. 
Mr and Mrs A say they were pressured into taking out the PPI, that they didnt know what 
PPI was and the terms and conditions were not explained to them. They also say they were 
not allowed to cancel it and were not eligible to claim on the policy. And as they had 
sufficient sick pay and savings, they didnt need the PPI.  Mr and Mrs A believe they applied for the mortgage and PPI in a meeting. But Newcastle BS 
has indicated the applications for the PPI were both made by post. This was over 20 years 
ago and the records are not totally complete and memories can fade. 
Taking account of the records I have seen, and the information provided by both parties, I 
think it likely Mr and Mrs A had a meeting, possibly on both occasions, to apply for their 
mortgages. At those meetings PPI would have been discussed as it was referred to on the 
mortgage application forms. 
It seems Mr and Mrs A were given or sent later the information booklet and application forms 
that were eventually used to apply for the PPI. Mr and Mrs A appear to have completed the 
PPI applications forms at home, with the information available for them to decide if they 
wanted to apply for it or not. 
On the mortgage application forms in both 1996 and 1998, the section for PPI was marked 
indicating it was not wanted. But on both occasions a separate application form to take out 
the PPI was completed a couple of months later and returned by Mr and Mrs A to Newcastle 
BS.
Mr and Mrs A did complete the PPI application forms separately to the mortgage application 
and on the PPI forms they made choices about who was covered for the policy and what 
level of cover they wanted to take out. The process and the way both the applications forms 
for the PPI were completed, make it clear that Mr and Mrs A knew they had a choice about 
taking out the PPI at the time. And on both occasions they completed the forms to say they 
wanted it, indicating the levels of cover required.
In both 1996 and 1998 when the policies were applied for, the cover was only taken out to 
cover Mr A. From all the information provided Mr A was working full-time although for 
different employers at the different dates. Mr A was eligible for the policies on both 
occasions based on his age, employment status and place of residence. 
I have seen nothing to show Mr A was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover, either in 1996 or 1999. Mr A was not suffering from any pre-existing medical 
conditions so would not have been caught by any restrictions or claims relating to medical 
issues. 
Mr A has indicated he would have had very good employment benefits to cover him if he 
was off sick but hasnt been able to provide any evidence to support the level of sick pay he 
may have been entitled to in either of his jobs. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
any sick pay received, so the PPI would have been useful in such circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs A have said they had some savings but again have been unable to provide 
evidence of the level of savings they have indicated.  However, if Mr A wasnt working then 
the PPI would have paid their mortgage payments, allowing the savings and income from 
Mrs A to be used for other household and day to day expenses at what could have been a 
difficult time. 
Information about the cost and the benefit provided was shown on the mortgage offer in 
1996 and on the payment summary in 1998. So Mr and Mrs A should have known how much 
they were paying for each of their policies at the time. Taking account of the costs and 
benefits, these were reasonable for policies of this type. And I have seen nothing to show 
the PPI was not affordable at either time. 
Its possible the information Newcastle BS provided to Mr and Mrs A at the time of the sales 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But I think they chose to take out the PPI at the time and I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs A 
off taking out the cover as Mr A wasnt affected by any restrictions of the policy.
I note that in their complaint submission Mr and Mrs A say they would not have been eligible 
to claim on the policy. However in February 2000 Mr A did make a successful claim on the 
policy for a short period of time, so this indicates the policy did provide the benefits 
Mr and Mrs A had thought and Mr A could make a successful claim.
In summary I have seen nothing to show the PPI was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs A in either 
1996 or 1998. It was clear from the separate application forms for the PPI on both occasions 
that Mr and Mrs A should have known these were optional policies, that were separate 
products to the mortgages, and they had a choice whether to take the PPI out. 
I think Mr and Mrs A did agree to take the policies out as the PPI would be of benefit to them 
should they need to claim. And as Mr A, who was covered by the policies, was not caught by 
any restrictions in the terms and conditions, I dont think further information would have had 
any effect on their decision to take out the policies.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold by Newcastle Building 
society to Mr and Mrs A and Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman