DRN-4402531
The complaint
The complaint in this case relates to Scottish Widows Limiteds (Scottish Widows) actions in 
the registering of a Letter of Authority (LOA) on Mr Ls pension policy. Mr L was under the 
impression that this would allow his son (Mr E L) to manage the pension on his behalf. 
Since this was registered in 2021 it has become clear that the LOA only entitled Mr E L to 
access information on Mr Ls policy and not manage this on his behalf. Mr Ls complaint is 
that this is not what they were led to believe at the time, and the subsequent difficulties in 
managing the policy have caused financial loss. 
Mr L is being represented by Mr E L in this complaint. 
I understand there have been subsequent issues in relation to the accessing of Mr Ls 
pension however this decision is only in relation to the LOA and any potential misinformation 
about this.
What happened
Given English is not Mr Ls first language he wanted his son (Mr E L) to be able to discuss 
his Scottish Widows pensions on his behalf. As such a web request for information was 
submitted by Mr L to Scottish Widows on 17 July 2021. This asked, Please can you let me 
know how I can nominate a named person (my son) to discuss any matters relating to my 
pension plans? 
Mr E L contacted Scottish Widows over the phone on 29 July 2021 to discuss this further, 
with the outcome of this call being that Mr E L was going to arrange for his father to submit 
an LOA to Scottish Widows. 
Mr L sent the LOA request to Scottish Widows on 12 August 2021, this was received on 
16 August 2021 and on 26 August 2021 Scottish Widows wrote to Mr L at his correct 
address confirming that Mr E L had been cleared on his policy for information only. 
Following this, in June 2022 Mr E L attempted to make changes to the policy on Mr Ls 
behalf. It became clear at this time that the LOA would not allow this and as such a 
complaint was registered. 
From this point there were numerous calls between Mr E L and Scottish Widows where the 
management of the pension was discussed. As above I have not included significant detail 
of these conversations here as this decision is focussed on the implementation of the LOA 
and the information provided by Scottish Widows around this. 
Scottish Widows issued their response to the complaint on 3 October 2022. 
Regarding any potential miscommunication about the LOA and what this entitled Mr E L to 
do on his fathers policy, Scottish Widows stated that they had explained that the LOA only 
gave Mr E L access to information in the letter dated 26 August 2021 and in a telephone 
conversation on 29 July 2021. 
As such, this element of the complaint had been rejected. 
Scottish Widows did accept that it had taken them too long to respond to the complaint (this 
had been made on 9 July 2022) and as such offered to discuss any losses that this may 
have caused including any distress or inconvenience. 
Mr L and Mr E L did not accept this and subsequently referred the complaint to this service 
on 18 March 2023. 
Our investigator looked into things but did not believe Scottish Widows had done anything 
wrong. The investigator noted that the letter sent on 26 August 2021 confirmed that the LOA 
provided access to information only, with this being supported by the call notes from 2021 
which showed Mr E L was informed that the LOA would provide access to information only. 
Mr E L did not agree and in response noted that the letter of August 2021 was never 
received and that he remained of the opinion he was led to believe the LOA would allow him 
to take action and make changes to his fathers pension. The fact that such changes could 
not be made, alongside movements in the investment market, meant his fathers pension 
had lost value. 
Our investigator was not minded to change their findings and as such the case was passed 
to me.
I issued a provisional decision which stated:
Our investigator based their findings on the call notes provided by Scottish Widows, 
including notes covering the 29 July 2021 call with Mr E L where the LOA was discussed, 
and the letter sent by Scottish Widows in August 2021 which confirmed the LOA would 
provide access to information only. 
To add to this, and to try and address Mr E Ls concerns that the call notes provided by 
Scottish Widows did not reflect his recollections of the conversation held, I have requested 
and been supplied with a number of recorded calls so that these can be compared directly to 
the call notes submitted by Scottish Widows. 
Having looked at the chain of events above, and all the evidence on file, I have reached the 
same conclusion as our investigator. I do not believe Scottish Widows acted inappropriately 
or provided incorrect information when setting up the LOA on Mr Ls policies. 
The initial web request submitted by Mr L on 17 July 2021 only requests additional 
information on how Mr L can grant his son access to information, with no mention of any 
requirement for Mr E L to be granted the ability to act or make changes on the policy. 
During the follow up call of 29 July 2021 it is clarified several times that an LOA would only 
provide access to information. I have listened to this call and have transcribed and included 
key commentary below. 
Mr E L began by asking how he could be nominated as a point of contact to discuss his 
[fathers] pension. 
The initial call hander explained that for ad hoc requests consent could be given verbally. 
But for longer lasting you can free hand a written instruction, get your father sign off on that, 
confirming that he grants you permission to speak on his behalf. It doesnt allow you to make 
changes but allows us to share information with you. As the initial call hander couldnt action anything personally, Mr E L was transferred to 
another staff member who took over the call. 
This call handler stated that So, in terms of getting yourself applied onto the policy so we 
can give you information about your dads plan this would be known as a Letter of Authority.  
The process of submitting a LOA and what would need to be included on such a letter was 
then discussed and followed by a re-confirmation that Once the letter of authority is applied 
to the policy we would then be able to speak to you about our dads policies so helping him 
with the communication situation, however, we wouldnt be able to carry out your instructions 
we would still need that to come from the policy holder. So, we can give you information on 
the policyholders plan once we have a letter of authority, but we cannot make any changes 
to his plan, we would need that ether sent in by documentation or we would need to speak to 
the policyholder directly over the phone. 
Following this the call moved on to cover how the LOA could be submitted with an email 
address provided. 
Towards the end of the call Mr E L then explained that his only real question was around 
what happened to the policy as his father approached retirement and whether the pension 
would automatically be moved into safer investments. The call handler explained that this 
would depend on the underlying investments themselves and the type of policy held, 
however nothing specific about Mr Ls policy could be discussed at that time given no LOA 
had been submitted. 
At no point during this call does Mr E L state that one of his requirements is the ability to 
make changes to his fathers pension with both Scottish Widows call handlers being very 
clear that the LOA would provide access to information only. 
I have concluded that this call made it clear to Mr E L what the LOA would and would not do 
before any such letter was completed and submitted to Scottish Widows. 
Following this call the LOA was applied for with written confirmation of its application to 
Mr Ls policies sent by Scottish Widows on 26 August 2021. 
I see no reason to doubt Mr E Ls statement that this letter was not received, however I 
would repeat the point made by our investigator that Scottish Widows were not in a position 
to know this, with the letter being addressed correctly and sent in good faith. 
In addition, given the content of the recorded call detailed above, even accepting this letter 
was not received, I do not believe it is reasonable to conclude that Scottish Widows 
suggested in any way that an LOA would allow Mr E L to make changes to his fathers 
pension. 
I fully appreciate that at some point after July / August 2021 Mr L and Mr E Ls needs 
changed, with both wanting Mr E L to have the ability to manage the pension on Mr Ls 
behalf. However, I can find no evidence that this was required or discussed with Scottish 
Widows during the 29 July 2021 call or at the point the LOA was submitted. 
I note that there have been several issues in subsequent conversations between 
Mr L / Mr E L and Scottish Widows, however as above, this decision has focussed on the 
issue around any potential miscommunication around the LOA. As such I have not included 
or discussed any additional detail around subsequent conversations between the parties 
held in 2022. As such I can find no reason to uphold this complaint or ask Scottish Widows to take any 
further action.
I asked all parties to provide any additional commentary or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before a final decision was issued by 13 October 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision issued Scottish Widows confirmed they agreed with 
the outcome reached and had nothing further to add. 
No response has been received from Mr L or Mr E L.
Given there has been no further information or commentary submitted, I have concluded that 
the outcome documented in the provisional decision (detailed above) remains fair and 
reasonable. As such I am not making any changes to it.
My final decision
As per the commentary above I am not upholding this complaint and require no further 
action from Scottish Widows Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman