DRN-2442140
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint is that he has suffered a financial loss because of the actions of Brewin 
Dolphin Limited in respect of the proceeds of a trust it distributed. Subsequent to the trust 
being wound-up, Mr K received a tax bill from the United States Inland Revenue Service 
(US IRS) due to his status as an American citizen. He believes this wouldnt have happened 
had Brewin Dolphin provided him with appropriate advice.
What happened
Brewin Dolphin was the administrator of a trust set up by Mr Ks late mother. The trust 
provided lifetime benefits to Mr Ks father. After Mr Ks fathers death in 2018 the trust was 
wound-up, and the proceeds distributed to the beneficiaries; one of which was Mr K. 
In 2014 Brewin Dolphin informed the trustees (who included the beneficiaries) that there was 
new USA legislation that could have an impact on any trusts and portfolios it ran. It provided 
a basic explanation and further documentation for their information and consideration. It said 
that it could and would deal with the relevant reporting requirement if the legislation applied 
to anyone involved with the trust. 
Brewin Dolphin said that due to the complexity and uncertainty of the new rules and 
regulations you are strongly advised to seek your own independent and professional advice, 
if at any time you are not sure about the impact these new rules and regulations may have 
on you or the Trust or what new obligations you may now have. It asked that a form be 
completed providing information about all beneficiaries, settlor and trustees. The form was 
completed and returned. 
Brewin Dolphin noted that Mr K was recorded as having been born in America and asked 
him to confirm either his US tax identification number or that he was no longer a citizen. Mr K 
responded by confirming that he was not a US citizen and gave some further circumstantial 
information. 
Brewin Dolphin responded to Mr K and said that it understood the US IRS would require 
further paperwork regarding his citizenship. It explained that in Mr Ks situation, the US IRS 
would still consider him as a US citizen unless he had formally renounced citizenship. As it 
was, Brewin Dolphin was legally obliged to inform HMRC that an American citizen had an 
interest in the trust. It said that HMRC would then disclose that information to the US IRS, 
which in turn might contact him. Brewin Dolphin said In summary, the rules are very 
complex. We are not permitted to give you advice as to how you should proceed, other than 
suggesting you seek legal and tax advice from your solicitor or accountant.
Further documentation about this matter was sent to the trustee representative by Brewin 
Dolphin in 2016 and 2017 about these requirements.  
In 2018 the trustees instructed Brewin Dolphin to wind-up the trust. The holdings from within 
the trust were distributed in accordance with the trustees instructions, which means a 
portion of the holdings were moved to an account that had been set up in Mr Ks name. 
Subsequently, some of those holdings were transferred into an account in Mr Ks wifes 
name.
In early 2019 Brewin Dolphin wrote to Mr K referencing earlier conversations about his 
nationality. It said that it thought the US IRS would consider Mr K a US citizen if he hadnt 
given up his citizenship and so for it to comply with the regulations, it needed him to provide 
it with his US social security number or his official renunciation of his US citizenship. It said 
both options were involved and potentially had consequences and so it recommended he 
contact a specialist professional with expertise in the area.  In May 2019 Mr K engaged such 
specialist advice.
Mr K provided Brewin Dolphin with his American social security number in June 2019. He 
also confirmed that he would be renouncing his American citizenship once his tax returns 
had been submitted to the US IRS. It was subsequently confirmed that there was a 
significant US tax lability, some of which had been due directly to advice to transfer holdings 
to Mr Ks wife. Mr K considered much of the tax liability wouldnt have been incurred had the 
holdings from the trust been transferred direct to Mrs K, rather than initially transferred to 
Mr K.
Mr K complained about the actions of Brewin Dolphin in 2018 when accepting instructions to 
wind-up the trust and the subsequent advice it gave him as an individual. He was also 
unhappy that Brewin Dolphin had the option to withdraw advice and terminate the client 
relationship with Mr K, but it didnt do so. 
Brewin Dolphin highlighted that it had informed Mr K that it didnt give tax or legal advice and 
that it was its customers responsibility to seek advice about their own circumstances before 
investing. It also reminded Mr K that it had recommended he seek specialist advice in 2015, 
again because it wasnt able to assist with the matter of his likely citizenship and the 
potential tax position that placed him in. It left Mr K to address the situation. It provided 
advice thereafter on the basis that he was a UK national, as he had confirmed to it he was, 
until he provided evidence to the contrary, which was in 2019. 
Brewin Dolphin confirmed that it couldnt have transferred any assets from the trust to Mrs K 
as she was not a beneficiary of the trust. Also, in relation to winding up the trust, it followed 
the instructions of the trustees, which it was required to do. It didnt uphold the complaint as 
it was satisfied it had discharged its responsibilities appropriately.
Mr K didnt accept Brewin Dolphins position and referred his complaint to this service for 
consideration. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but she didnt recommend 
it be upheld.
Mr K didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. He said that Brewin Dolphin knew he 
was an American citizen as it had a statement from him that he was born in that country. 
That knowledge should have influenced Brewin Dolphins advice to him and because it 
didnt, it failed in its duty of care toward him. Mr K feels that Brewin Dolphin acted 
duplicitously and did not walk their talk.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2014 new requirements were placed on Brewin Dolphin in relation to holdings for 
American citizens. It had to ask for information and forward any relevant facts to HMRC in 
this regard. However, it was entirely reliant on the information it was given by its clients.
In this case, the information provided about Mr K led Brewin Dolphin to suspect he might be 
an American citizen. It didnt know for certain and so asked Mr K for confirmation. When he 
did, and confirmed he wasnt, it would appear Brewin Dolphin wasnt entirely confident in his 
response because, as it highlighted such matters were complicated, and it recommended he 
seek professional advice about the issue. Checking Mr Ks status was not something Brewin 
Dolphin could do on Mr Ks behalf and it didnt provide that type of advice itself. At that point 
it was for Mr K to take the matter forward; Brewin Dolphin couldnt make Mr K investigate the 
matter.
Mr K is not happy that Brewin Dolphin continued to treat him as a UK investor without taking 
into account the American citizenship it knew he had. He also believes it should have 
stopped dealing with him, as its terms of business allowed it to. A financial adviser is 
dependent on the information it is provided by its client. In this case Mr K had been adamant 
that he was not an American citizen and given the time that had passed between 2014 and 
the advice Mr K is complaining about in 2018, if things had changed, Mr K had the 
opportunity to tell Brewin Dolphin. 
I dont consider Brewin Dolphin was wrong to have acted as it did in 2018 based on the 
information Mr K had given it. Whilst it asked shortly thereafter for evidence about the 
suspected citizenship, equally at that point, Mr K could have provided it with evidence that 
he was not an American citizen and never had been, as he had previously told Brewin 
Dolphin. 
As for Brewin Dolphin invoking the business term that allowed it to stop dealing with 
customers that had American citizenship, this is a fairly standard term financial advisers 
introduced after the introduction of the relevant legislation. This was because it wasnt clear 
how complicated it would be to advise American citizens. It wasnt a requirement for Brewin 
Dolphin to invoke the term and I cant find it did something wrong in not doing so. 
Mr K has suggested that Brewin Dolphin should have arranged for his share of the holdings 
from the trust to be transferred direct to Mrs K, as had been done with some holdings from 
Mr Ks fathers estate. I can understand why Mr K has said this, but Brewin Dolphin was only 
able to follow the parameters of the trust and the instructions of the trustees. The proceeds 
of the trust could only be transferred to the beneficiaries and Mrs K was not one of them; so 
Brewin Dolphin could not have done what Mr K has suggested.
I can understand why Mr K is so unhappy given the costs he has incurred in relation to both 
the US IRS tax bill and in commissioning the advice he needed. However, I am not 
persuaded that Brewin Dolphin is responsible for these costs being higher than they 
otherwise would have been. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 
1 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman