DRN-3757551
The complaint
Miss Z is unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) hasnt reimbursed her after she transferred 
money to a fraudster as part of an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Miss Z has been the victim of a scam. She was tricked 
into sending £3,600 to a fraudster in the belief that she was investing with a legitimate 
trading firm. The first payment of £200 was paid via debit card to a money transfer service. 
The second payment, £3,400, was made via international transfer to an international 
account. 
Miss Z made both of the payments online so there was no interaction with anyone from 
HSBC. However, she now feels that HSBC shouldve identified the payments she was 
making as suspicious and discussed them with her before it allowed them to leave her 
account. Miss Z believes that had HSBC done so, the scam wouldve come to light, and she 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the payments.  
HSBC didnt agree that it couldve done anything more than it had to protect Miss Z from 
the scam. It said the transactions hadnt raised any suspicion at the time. HSBC said it had 
contacted the receiving bank when Miss Z reported the scam but unfortunately, by this 
point, none of Miss Zs funds remained in the receiving account. HSBC did offer Miss Z a 
£50 compensation payment by way of an apology as it didnt inform her of the outcome of 
its investigation into the debit card payment when it shouldve.
Miss Z disagreed with what HSBC said and so she brought her complaint to this service 
and one of our investigators looked into things. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed with HSBC that there wasnt 
anything about the payments that meant HSBC shouldve questioned them at the time. And 
she didnt think they shouldve stood out to HSBC as suspicious enough to warrant further 
questioning before they were allowed to leave the account either. She pointed out that Miss 
Z often made international payments from this account. She also thought HSBC had done 
all it could to recover Miss Zs funds once notified of the scam. It had contacted the 
receiving bank in regard to the international payment and it had pursued a chargeback for 
the debit card payment too. But ultimately the conclusion was reached that any chargeback 
would be unsuccessful. The payment had been made via a money transfer service and so 
the service requested, the transfer of the funds, had been provided.   
Miss Z didnt agree with the investigators findings. Her representatives pointed out that the 
second transaction was disproportionate to her monthly income and therefore shouldve 
been questioned.  
As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Miss Z. I have significant sympathy 
for the situation she has found herself in. I know she was hoping to use these funds 
towards a future mortgage. But having thought very carefully about what shes told us 
happened at the time and HSBCs actions, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for 
me to hold HSBC liable for her loss. Ill explain why.
It is accepted that Miss Z authorised the scam payments herself. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of her account, Miss Z is presumed liable for her loss in the first 
instance. Where a valid payment instruction has been received, HSBCs obligation is to 
follow the instructions that Miss Z has provided. 
However, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for HSBC to take 
additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment in order to help 
protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. An example of this 
would be when a payment is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic when compared with 
the usual use of the account. In such circumstances, Id expect HSBC to intervene and ask 
some questions about the intended transaction before processing it. 
So, Ive thought about whether the initial card payment and then the later international 
transfer could be considered out of character and unusual when compared with Miss Zs 
usual account activity. I understand that Miss Z representatives feel that at the very least, the 
online transfer shouldve been considered suspicious enough to have warranted further 
intervention. 
Ive reviewed Miss Zs account statements for the months leading up to the scam, and 
whilst I agree that the second payment is higher than the usual transactions made from this 
account. I still dont think either payment was remarkable enough to have stood out to HSBC 
and prompted further discussion. Ill explain why. 
The first payment of £200 is a modest amount. It has been made via debit card and is in-
line with Miss Zs usual spending on the account. Miss Z has made numerous payments 
that are higher than the first payment now under discussion here in the months leading up 
to the scam. And so, I dont think this payment shouldve been considered unusual at the 
time.
The second payment, for £3,400, is higher. But it is still for a relatively small amount and I 
dont consider it inherently suspicious when taking into account that customers often process 
transactions up to this amount on a daily basis. And so, it would be unreasonable for me to 
say that transactions in their low thousands were so unusual that this one shouldve 
prompted further action from HSBC. I also have to take into account that Miss Z often sent money to accounts abroad. So, this wasnt unusual for her either. Overall, Im not satisfied 
that the scam payments shouldve stood out when compared to Miss Zs genuine account 
activity or that they shouldve prompted further checks by HSBC before they were allowed to 
leave Miss Zs account. 
I have to stress that, at the time, HSBC wouldnt have known that Miss Z was at making 
payments to a scammer. It is now only with the benefit of hindsight that we now know that 
the payments were being made as the result of a scam and I dont agree that there was 
anything inherently suspicious about them at the time. Ive thought about the fact that the 
second payment was sent to a new payee. However, I dont find that a payment to a new 
payee is in itself suspicious enough to mean that HSBC shouldve considered Miss Z at risk 
of financial harm and contacted her before they made the payments at her request.
It is also important for me to stress that banks have to strike a balance between processing 
payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and 
potentially harmful activity. And I dont think it would be fair to say that HSBC shouldve 
identified the payments Miss Z made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks.
Recovery of funds
Ive then thought about whether HSBC couldve done more to help Miss Z once it was 
notified of the scam, but I dont think it could. 
In regard to the card payment, the only option available to HSBC to recover Miss Zs funds 
was to raise a chargeback under the chargeback scheme. However, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to decline to pursue the chargeback further than it did - it had no 
reasonable prospect of success. Miss Zs funds were transferred via a third-party money 
transfer service. And so, the requested service, the transfer of the funds to the account 
specified, had been provided by the service provider. 
HSBC did contact the receiving bank that received the international transfer to ask if Miss Zs 
funds could be returned but unfortunately, this was some weeks after the transfer had been 
completed and so the funds had already been removed. 
Ive taken into account Miss Zs representatives arguments that when making the second 
payment, Miss Z was making a payment that was disproportionate to her earnings. However, 
its unclear why Miss Zs representatives think this shouldve prompted further action from 
HSBC. Miss Z had the funds available in her account and it is not for HSBC to advise 
customers whether payments are financially sensible or not as theyre being made. Miss Z 
can choose to use the funds available in her account as she wishes.  
I understand that HSBC did not inform Miss Z of the outcome of its investigations into the 
debit card payment when it shouldve. Whilst not ideal, I understand this has ultimately had 
no impact on the outcome of this complaint. And so, I think the £50 already put forward by 
HSBC is fair and I wont be asking it to pay any additional compensation.
Finally, I want to stress again that I am very sorry to hear about what has happened to Miss 
Z. But at the same time, I dont think her loss was caused by any specific failing on behalf of 
HSBC. The fault here lies with the cruel and callous acts of the fraudsters themselves.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC Bank UK Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman