DRN-3871908
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to protect him from losing 
money to a scam. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide a brief 
overview of some of the key events here. In 2020 Mr B says he was the victim of a scam. At 
the time he believed he was sending money to a legitimate investment, but he later learned 
that it was all a scam. 
As a result of the scam Mr B says he made the following payments using the debit card 
linked to his Nationwide account. 
Date Amount Beneficiary
17 April 2020 £409.32 L
21 April 2020 £807.60 H
18 May 2020 £2,270.41 A
11 July 2020 £400 S
17 July 2020 £1,000 B
23 July 2020 £190 B
And the following payments using his Nationwide Credit Card.
Date Amount Merchant
13 July 2020 £1,750 S 
20 July 2020 £1,5000 B 
22 July 2020 £200 B
In November 2020 Nationwide wrote to Mr B regarding the disputed credit card payments 
requesting further evidence. Nationwide say they never received any further response. Mr B 
later raised his complaint about the scam through our service. Nationwide responded with a 
complaint response in July 2022. In summary this said that theyd been unable to investigate 
as Mr B hadnt provided further information. They re-iterated what theyd require and 
provided referral rights to our service. 
Mr B had asked our service to investigate and one of our Investigators didnt recommend 
that his complaint should be upheld. She didnt think any of the payments were so unusual 
as to warrant intervention from Nationwide prior to processing them. And she didnt think 
there would have been any chance of a successful claim under the chargeback scheme or 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s75). Mr B disagrees and has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for very similar 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr B, so Ill explain why. 
Firstly, I accept that Mr B has been the victim of a scam. But being the victim of a scam 
doesnt automatically entitle him to reimbursement from Nationwide. Nationwide do have 
obligations to act in their customers best interests and to be alert to potential fraud and 
scams. Ive reviewed the prior activity for both Mr Bs current and credit card accounts. And I 
dont think any of the payments would have appeared as so unusual or suspicious to 
Nationwide where I think they ought to have done more before following the instructions Mr 
B gave when making the payments. So I dont think Nationwide reasonably could have 
prevented the loss in this way. 
Once the payments had already been made, the only potential avenues that could be 
pursued for a refund would be chargeback or s75. But none of the payments went directly to 
the scam investment firms that Mr B says he was in contact with. The payments all seem to 
go to genuine money transfer or cryptocurrency exchanges. As such its most likely they 
would have been able to evidence theyd provided the services requested (sending of funds / 
purchase and transfer of cryptocurrency). So, I dont think there are any failings by 
Nationwide which impacted whether any of Mr Bs money could be recovered. 
I also dont think there are significant service failings by Nationwide in the circumstances 
here. Theyd requested further information which was needed to consider the next steps and 
Ive seen no evidence this was received. Im sorry to hear Mr B lost this money to a scam, 
but as I dont think this is something Nationwide are responsible for, Im not going to tell 
them to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman