DRN-3517139
The complaint
Mr F complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough in response to his claim to 
recover money he paid for flight tickets he bought when his original airline cancelled his 
return flights while he was abroad.
What happened
Mr F was on holiday overseas with his wife and son when his airline (R) notified him to say 
it was cancelling the return leg of their flights. He says R made no attempt to assist him by 
providing replacement flights and he felt his only viable option was to buy tickets with 
alternative providers. He duly did so, at an additional cost of £1,800.28. On Mr Fs return to 
the UK he sought recovery of these costs from R. In response R initially offered Mr F 
vouchers for the unused portion of his original flights, valued at £329.98. It later changed its 
offer and refunded this amount to Mr F via his Nationwide credit card, as that was what hed 
used to make the original purchase.
Mr F was unhappy he was still out of pocket. He attempted to claim the outstanding sum 
from Nationwide by means of the connected lender liability provisions in section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Nationwide didnt accept Mr Fs claim. In support of its 
position, Nationwide told Mr F that a force majeure clause in his agreement with R restricted 
any liability to pay compensation in the event of cancellation, and that this had been 
triggered by the Covid-19 pandemic. Mr F complained to Nationwide about its stance, but 
Nationwide maintained its position and he referred matters to us.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had treated Mr F fairly in dealing with his claim. She 
found that Nationwide hadnt done enough to demonstrate why R had cancelled Mr Fs 
flights due to the pandemic. The investigator noted that other flights  such as those 
ultimately taken by Mr F and his family  were still operating between the UK and Mr Fs 
location at the material time. So it was unreasonable to seek to rely on the force majeure 
clause to deny the claim.
The investigator was further satisfied that section 75 applied to Mr Fs transaction with R, 
and that the agreement between the parties required R to provide replacement flights if that 
was Mr Fs choice. She recommended Nationwide refund Mr Fs flight costs, which  taking 
into account the £329.98 R eventually refunded  amounted to £1,470.30, together with 
interest.
Nationwide didnt accept the investigators proposal. It said:
its submissions included an email from R that specifically said it had been forced to 
cancel the flight due to the impact of Covid-19
that email gave Mr F the choice of a refund or rerouting with an alternative carrier (by 
means of contacting its Customer Care Team) if it wasnt possible to reroute with R. 
Nationwide said it didnt know what action Mr F took to reroute his flights other than 
the alternative booking he was claiming for
Mr F had made his booking on 13 March, for outbound travel on 15 March. At the 
time of booking there were some restrictions in place at his travel destination. And 
during this time the UK Government published a statement advising against all but 
essential travel to that destination
there was an issue over whether there was a valid debtor-creditor-supplier 
relationship (a necessary element of a section 75 claim) due to Mr Fs son being an 
adult. He also didnt appear to be listed on the travel itinerary for the original flights 
with R
The matter has been passed to me for review and determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the evidence available to me, Mr Fs transaction meets the requirements set out in 
section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 has the effect that where there has been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by R, Mr F has the same claim against Nationwide as he does 
against R.
Mr F has said that it would be unreasonable for Nationwide to seek to rely on force majeure, 
on the basis that no such provision was in place when he booked his flights. Ive reviewed 
the relevant terms and conditions that applied at the time. They make provision for what 
happens in the event of cancellation due to extraordinary circumstances. That isnt quite the 
same thing as force majeure, which generally has the effect of terminating the parties 
contractual obligations. Here, the agreement was capable of continuing; the relevant clause 
merely limits the restitution Mr F can seek under the contract.
Ive thought about what Nationwide has said, and I can see that it makes some points that 
have merit. Rs email does cite the Covid-19 pandemic as the reason Mr Fs return flights 
were cancelled. However, it doesnt expand on the reasons why that meant R was unable to 
carry out replacement flights, which seems to have been possible given other airlines clearly 
were still able to bring home Mr F and his family.
It strikes me that for extraordinary circumstances to apply under the relevant clause, there 
might need to be sufficient explanation around this; for example, to exclude the possibility 
that the decision was taken for operational reasons. The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA) 
guidance says extraordinary circumstances could include where the Government advises 
against all but essential travel, as was the case here.
I dont think this helps significantly, because the CAA merely goes on to say that this would 
mean fixed sum compensation would not be payable. And fixed sum compensation doesnt 
form part of Mr Fs claim. The CAA doesnt suggest extraordinary circumstances also mean 
that any other obligations would also not apply, such as the requirement to refund or reroute 
passengers. Further, the CAA says that its stated interpretation of extraordinary 
circumstances is illustrative and for guidance only, rather than determinative of its view, as 
each case is context and fact specific. So I dont think I can safely say that, even if the 
cancellation was due to extraordinary circumstances, Mr Fs claim should fail.
Ensuring Mr and Mrs F were returned to the UK was an obligation on R under its conditions 
of carriage, which incorporated provisions made by relevant legislation (Regulation (EC) No 
261/2004). As Nationwide notes, Mr F should have been afforded the choice of a refund or 
rerouting either with R or an alternative carrier, a point also acknowledged by R.
Mr F was on holiday and needed to return to the UK. I cant see why in such circumstances 
he would have opted for a refund. He has submitted that he made unsuccessful attempts to contact R before he made the alternative flight arrangements himself. No doubt if the 
situation had been less urgent, Mr F could have waited until he was able to speak with R to 
see when it would be able to reroute him on one of its other flights or with another carrier. 
However, with the window for making such arrangements closing and alternative flight costs 
rapidly increasing, I can see why Mr F took the decision he did.
In my view, this was a legitimate effort to mitigate the potential cost of waiting until R could 
reroute him. Otherwise, Mr Fs costs  and subsequent claim  might have been significantly 
higher, due to increasing flight costs and accommodation.
Im conscious that while Nationwides response to the investigators assessment hasnt 
touched on this point, its original submissions did seek to suggest that Mr F might not be 
entitled to claim his additional costs on the basis the terms and conditions excluded 
compensation. I dont think its material to the complaint outcome due to Rs continuing 
obligation to reroute Mr F. But I would observe that in the context of that specific term, which 
appears in the document relating to rights established by Regulation (EC) No 261/2004, 
compensation should more properly be taken to apply to the definition of compensation 
under Article 7 of that Regulation. That definition has the same meaning as that used by the 
CAA in the guidance to which Ive already referred, in that it refers only to fixed sum 
compensation.
Taking all of this into account, Im satisfied that R  and by virtue of section 75  had a 
contractual obligation to Mr F that it failed to fulfil, which was to act on his choice to be 
rerouted. Rs failure to do so is likely to amount to a breach of contract. As a consequence of 
such a breach, Mr F had to make alternative arrangements himself, and has had to pay 
additional costs in doing so. He should be reimbursed those costs that reflect the loss due to 
the breach.
This brings me to Nationwides final point. Mr F and his wife were named on the original 
flight itinerary. That transaction, funded by the use of Mr Fs credit card, did not appear to 
include their son. As R didnt have any contractual obligation to carry anyone other than Mr 
and Mrs F under the terms of their agreement, it follows that neither R, nor Nationwide, can 
fairly be held liable for costs Mr F incurred in arranging this himself. As I understand it, the 
cost Mr F paid for his sons flight to the UK was £703.21. Accordingly, weve informed Mr F 
of this and Ive deducted it from the £1,470.30 proposed in the investigators assessment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it, Nationwide Building Society 
should take the following steps within 28 days of receiving Mr Fs acceptance of this 
decision:
1. Recalculate Mr Fs credit card account by refunding £767.09 backdated to the date 
he bought the alternative flight tickets (being 23 March 2020)
2. if this would have resulted in a credit balance owed to Mr F, this should be paid to 
him together with annual interest calculated at 8% simple from that point up to the 
date this money is refunded
3. Ensure there is no adverse payment information associated with this transaction on 
Mr Fs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Niall TaylorOmbudsman