DRN-2597827
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard treated him when 
he was going through financial difficulties.
What happened
On 12 January 2021, I issued a provisional decision on Mr Hs complaint. In this, I explained 
why, based on what I had seen so far, I wasnt intending to uphold this complaint. I wanted 
to give both parties a chance to respond to my findings.
I have copied my provisional decision below  and it forms part of this final decision:
Mr H has three different credit card accounts with Barclays. He tells us that between 2009 
and 2013, he was experiencing financial difficulties, and, in this time, Barclays didnt offer 
him any help or assistance. Mr H tells us that Barclays closed his accounts and made them 
repayment only because he was in financial difficulty. He says that he incurred interest and 
charges on the account and by Barclays continuing to charge him fees, Barclays are in 
breach of the Lending Code. 
In order to settle the complaint, Mr H says that he would like Barclays to refund him all 
interest and charges that was accrued on all accounts since the point in which his accounts 
were suspended.
Barclays responded to Mr Hs complaint to say that it didnt think it had done anything wrong. 
It said that it had written to, and spoken to Mr H with updates of his account, and this is what 
it deemed to be enough. It also said that all interest and charges had been applied in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account and so it hadnt done anything 
wrong in applying these. 
Our investigator also looked into Mr Hs complaint. He didnt think that Barclays had done 
anything wrong. He thought that the fees applied to Mr Hs accounts were done so in line 
with the terms and conditions of the accounts. He also confirmed that banks are not obliged 
to refund interest and charges that have been applied in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr H disagreed with our investigator. He said that Barclays didnt help him when he was in 
financial difficulties. And he says that Barclays continued to charge him interest and apply 
fees when it shouldnt have.
Because Mr H didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Mr Hs main issue here appears to be that when he was in financial difficulty, Barclays didnt 
help him. And it continued to charge him interest and apply fees for late payments. 
Given how long ago Mr H was experiencing these financial difficulties, there isnt a lot of 
information available for me to have a very clear understanding as to what happened at the 
time. So, Ill base my provisional findings on what Ive seen so far. And if either party can 
give me any additional information then Ill consider this as part of my final decision.
There are a number of different regulations and guidance out there that lenders need to take 
into account when thinking about how to treat a customer who is in financial difficulties. But 
essentially, these say that, it is up to the lender, Barclays in this case, to treat that customer 
fairly. 
Looking back at information provided by Barclays, I can see that Mr H did miss payments 
and that default notices were sent to him, which suggests he was in arrears at points 
between 2009 and 2013. This is an indication of Mr H being in financial difficulties during this 
period. Barclays has told us that Mr Hs accounts werent renewed in line with the terms and 
conditions due to the arrears on the accounts  which suggests that Barclays ought to have 
known that Mr H might have been struggling financially. So, I now need to take a look at 
what Barclays did to try and assist Mr H.
Barclays has been able to provide me with a history of the contact its collection department 
had with Mr H since March 2008. I can see here that Barclays has often attempted to contact 
Mr H but with no success. I can also see that when it has got in touch, Barclays has agreed 
a promise to pay, which it says is a short-term payment arrangement to help clear the 
arrears on the account and bring it back up to date.
I can also see that Barclays has sent a number of letters to Mr H when he has missed 
payments. The letters ask Mr H to pay the outstanding amount, but it also asks Mr H to 
contact it if he is struggling to pay so that it can try to help. Some of the letters also refer Mr 
H to debt charities. 
Looking at the contact notes provided by Barclays, I cant see anywhere that Mr H told it that 
he needed more help with his repayments. And on each occasion, it seems as though he 
was either going to pay or arranged another time that he was going to pay. 
Ive already mentioned the difficulties it seems Barclays had in contacting Mr H about 
repayments to his account. I wouldnt expect Barclays to set up a repayment plan or do 
anything more to help him without speaking to him first. So, at the moment, I dont think that 
Barclays should or could have done more to help.
Taking all of this into consideration, I think that Barclays did treat Mr H fairly, by making 
arrangements with him to pay and by referring him to other debt charities for help.
I can see that Barclays applied charges and interest during the time Mr H was in financial 
difficulties. But I cant agree it did anything wrong by doing this. Barclays dont have to 
refund interest or charges where they have been applied correctly. And in this case, I can 
see that Mr H was missing payments, so I dont think it has done anything wrong here. 
After 2013, it seems that Mr H did still make payments to the accounts late. But he didnt 
have a direct debit set up on two of the accounts, and it seems as though the late payments 
were as a result of manual payments not being paid by the due date, as opposed to not 
being able to make the payments. Barclays has sent me information to show that on most 
occasions the payments were less than a week overdue. So I dont think at this point 
Barclays needed to do anything more to help Mr H  unless of course Mr H asked for it 
which I cant see that he did. 
Based on everything Ive seen so far, Im not intending to uphold this complaint  this means 
that I dont intend on asking Barclays to do anything more for Mr H to put things right.Mr H responded to my provisional decision to say he didnt agree and made the following 
main points:
My provisional decision overlooks a large-scale investigation into Barclays about how 
it treated its customers in financial difficulties. The review dates back to 2014. Mr H 
says that my investigation contradicts information in a statement realised by this 
service. 
In my provisional decision, I explained that Barclays didnt have to refund interest or 
charges that had been applied correctly to his account. Mr H says that this 
contradicts the findings in the investigation I have mentioned. 
Mr H says the Consumer Credit Act states that it is considered unfair to continue to 
charge interest and increase the debt when there are known financial difficulties. So 
he says that Barclays shouldnt have applied any charges to his account while he 
was in financial difficulty. 
Mr H says that my provisional decision is in direct contradiction with an investigation 
this service carried out into the actions of Barclays.
Barclays also responded to my provisional decision to say it didnt have anything further to 
add to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
Firstly, its worth noting that the investigation into Barclays wasnt carried out by this service. 
It was carried out by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), who are the regulator  the 
press release Mr H refers to was published on the FCAs website and not this services. It is 
the role of this service to look into individual complaints, and so that is what I did in my 
provisional decision, and what I will be doing here. 
While I have thought about the investigation to which Mr H refers, this didnt affect all 
customers who faced financial difficulties. I have looked at the information I have that relates 
specifically to Mr H and his accounts. 
In Mr Hs complaint submissions to this service, he told us that the period he was 
experiencing financial difficulties was between 2009-2013  so that it why I looked 
specifically at what had happened during this time. And for the reasons Ive explained, I cant 
fairly say that Barclays did anything wrong. Given the length of time thats passed, there are 
no longer call recordings available to understand the conversations Mr H had with Barclays 
at the time of these difficulties, and so I cant say that he wasnt offered help. Especially 
when the limited information I do have confirms that payment plans were arranged for him 
on several occasions to help him get his accounts back up to date. 
As Ive said, Barclays didnt have to freeze interest or charges for Mr H. Mr H says this 
contradicts the finding of the investigation Mr H has referred to. But I dont agree. The 
investigation doesnt anywhere state that Barclays shouldnt have been charging interest or 
late fees. Barclays may have redressed its customers by offering refunds of this nature, but it 
doesnt necessarily mean it was wrong to have charged fees at the time. The review was 
about Barclays not offering some of its customers enough support or help during times of 
financial difficulty, but Ive already explained in my provisional decision why I dont think this 
applies to Mr Hs complaint.  Ive thought about all of the relevant regulations and guidance that apply to people 
experiencing financial difficulties. While suspending interest and charges is something that 
can be done in order to help people in financial difficulties, lenders dont have to do this. And 
they need to assess each case on its individual merits  what might work for one person 
may not for the next. In any event, Barclays wouldnt be able to assess Mr Hs 
circumstances without speaking with him about it first. Based on what Ive seen, from the 
contact notes provided, Barclays wasnt able to speak to Mr H, despite it attempting to call 
him on a number of occasions. And so I still cant fairly say that Barclays treated Mr H 
unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman