DRN-3004348
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that their claim wasnt fairly settled under their home insurance 
policy with Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead).
What happened
Mr and Mrs S claimed against their policy for damage caused by a water leak. The claim 
included damage to their boiler. Fairmead agreed that the leak caused damage to the boiler 
and decided to offer Mr and Mrs S a cash settlement to cover the cost of the repair. 
However, Mr and Mrs S said that their heating contractor said the boiler was beyond 
economical repair. Based on their heating contractors report Mr and Mrs S decided to have 
the boiler replaced and they thought Fairmead should cover the costs of the new boiler 
under their policy.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He said the evidence provided 
indicated the damage to the boiler, caused by the leak, couldve been repaired. He also 
thought the offer Fairmead made to settle the costs of the repair was fair. Mr and Mrs S 
disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the relevant terms and conditions to understand what the policy covered. 
The policy covers damage caused by escape of water and it sets out how any settlement 
would be determined, it states We will pay the cost to us of any necessary replacement or 
repair work carried out. 
Having reviewed the complaint, it seems to hinge on what the necessary work was, to 
remediate the damage to the boiler following the escape of water. Mr and Mrs S said the 
heating contractor said the boiler was beyond economical repair. However, Fairmead said a 
repair to the boiler would have been effective. Some corrosion was noted inside the boiler 
before the leak occurred at the property, and therefore [the loss adjuster] decided the 
replacement would not be considered as part of the claim.
I have reviewed the heating contractors report to understand what was concluded about the 
damage to the boiler. The report stated the water ingress has caused damage to electrical 
components. There are also signs of corrosion to the combustion chamber, on the pump 
house seal and also at the connection to the expansion vessel. It is my opinion that the 
boiler is beyond economical repair, therefore, I would recommend replacing the boiler.
Fairmead said it contacted the heating contractor. It said [the contractor] advised that a 
repair to the boiler would have been effective. Some corrosion was noted inside the boiler 
before the leak occurred at the property, and therefore [the loss adjuster] decided the 
replacement would not be considered as part of the claim. [The loss adjuster] asked your 
plumber for an up to date cost for the repair needed to the boiler.
Having considered the evidence, I can understand why Mr and Mrs S wouldve wanted their 
boiler replaced as the heating engineer had told them it was uneconomical repair. However, 
Fairmead have been unwilling to meet the replacement cost and have only offered a 
settlement value for the repair for damage from the leak. Fairmead has used the heating 
contractors report and have followed this up with him before making their decision. I think 
this is a reasonable approach, its the only expert report that is available. I also think the 
conclusion it has come to in covering the cost of the repairs is a fair one. The heating 
contractor has said the damage from the leak was repairable and the other damage is long 
standing. Corrosion wouldnt happen from a one-off leak it would happen over a much longer 
period and this kind of wear and tear isnt covered by the policy. So, it wouldnt be fair on 
Fairmead to expect them to cover damage that wasnt an insured peril. 
Fairmead have used the estimates provided by the heating engineer in determining their 
settlement. I think this is a fair and reasonable approach, so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Fairmead Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman