DRN-2711386
The complaint
Ms W complains Barclays Bank UK PLC ( Barclays) closed her bank account despite her 
requesting it remained open.
What happened
Ms W held an Everyday Saver Account (ESA) with Barclays for a number of years as an 
emergency fund. Ms W says, In July 2019 Barclays wrote to her advising the ESA would be 
made dormant unless she contacted them before October 2019. Ms W says she contacted 
Barclays in August 2019 asking them to keep the account open. Ms W says in February 
2020, she discovered the account had been closed and contacted Barclays on several 
occasions by telephone and in writing, but it took them over six months to eventually return 
the funds to her. Ms W is looking for Barclays to substantially compensate her for the time 
and effort it has taken, the stress it has caused her and the loss of interest on the monies 
during this time.
Barclays says they accept they made an error when they made Ms Ws ESA a dormant 
account. Barclays say they have apologised for this and offered Ms W the interest she would 
have earned on that account as well as a compensation payment of £100 for the 
inconvenience caused.  
Ms W wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
He felt that while Barclays had made a mistake here, they had put the account back to a 
position it would have been by crediting the ESA with an interest payment. The investigator 
felt Barclays had acted reasonably when asking for Ms W to provide identification to transfer 
the dormant balance and offered £100 compensation, which he felt was fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Ms W wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. I can see Ms W has raised some concerns over this services 
handling of her complaint, but that is not for me to consider here, as this will be dealt with 
separately by the investigators line manager. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Ms W to learn her ESA had 
been made dormant after she had told Barclays to keep it open. When considering this 
complaint, I have looked at whether Barclays have fairly compensated Ms W for the trouble 
and upset she has incurred following its mistake when closing her ESA.
What happened here is Ms W told Barclays to keep open her ESA following a letter she had 
received from them saying it would be made dormant unless they heard from her. I can see 
that Barclays have accepted they made a mistake and Ms W did inform them to keep the 
ESA open in August 2019 following their letter to her. 
Ms W says while she has now had the monies returned to her, it has taken months of letters 
and phone calls before this happened, during which time she was not sure she was going to 
get the monies back, and a considerable sum was involved. Ms W says the service she has 
received from Barclays during this period was poor and they had been dismissive towards 
her adding to her anxiety. She says the ESA represented her emergency funds and she was 
deprived access to it during this period. Ms W makes the point Barclays had made it difficult 
for her to access these monies, when they shouldnt have closed the account in the first 
place. Ms W says she was made to visit a branch to produce her identification before her 
monies could be made available to her, which was unnecessary and inconvenient during a 
time of the pandemic. Overall Ms W feels the compensation offered to her was insufficient 
and the interest given to her wasnt acceptable given she could have placed these in a 
higher interest earning account over this period of time. 
Its important to say there is no dispute that Barclays made a mistake initially when they 
made Ms Ws ESA dormant. I can see they have apologised for this and offered to pay Ms 
W the interest she would have earned had the ESA not have been made dormant and 
offered her £100 by way of compensation for the inconvenience they have caused. Ms W 
feels the offer of compensation doesnt reflect the trouble she has gone through.
I understand the points Ms W has made and although I havent seen the letters to which she 
refers, I dont doubt these may have gone unanswered. Its worth mentioning by Ms Ws own 
admission, the last statement she received from Barclays was the September 2019 
statement as she says she never received a closing statement, and this is underlined by the 
fact the closing statement in October 2019 doesnt contain Ms W address. That said, Ms W 
doesnt explain why she didnt query the fact she never received her regular monthly bank 
statements between September 2019 and February 2020, and although through no fault of 
her own, this would have, in all likelihood, contributed to the delay in dealing with the 
dormant account. Although Ms W contacted Barclays in February 2020, it took some time 
before they were eventually responded to and, it wasnt until late April when Ms Ws 
concerns were formally addressed. Its important to say, this was during the early days of the 
pandemic and as a result its likely businesses, like Barclays would have adopted different 
operational methods at this difficult time. 
Ms W has made it clear that she didnt get access to the balance of her ESA until August 
2020, some six months after she raised the issue with Barclays. From the information I have 
seen some of that delay was down to the time it took for Ms W to provide her identification, 
to enable the funds to be released. I can see from letters sent to Ms W in both April and 
June 2020, it explained further identification was required as part of their process. While Ms 
W may not agree and feels this was unnecessary as it added to her inconvenience, I am 
satisfied this would have been part of Barclays process and procedures even if the account 
had remained open. I say this given the amount involved and the fact it required an onward 
transfer to a different bank, it follows a transfer of this amount would have required further 
customer identification.  
Ms W raises the point she didnt have access to her bank account balance, and she could 
have reinvested this at a higher rate of interest if invested in a fixed term bond over this 
period. I can understand the frustration and upset it would have caused Ms W during the 
period between February and April 2020 when she didnt have access to her deposit or fully 
understand what was happening to it. I can see Barclays have apologised for this and 
accepted the account was made dormant despite her instructions to keep the account open. Ms W suggests she could have invested these monies in a fixed term bond and gained a 
better interest rate than Barclays have offered her by way of adjustment. While it is only right 
that Ms W be compensated for the interest she lost during this time, I am satisfied given for 
the past five years, these funds had been held in an instant access account, and as Ms W 
says these were emergency monies, its reasonable for Barclays to have refunded her for 
the interest based on the ESA interest rates for that time. I understand this is what happened 
here. 
Its important to say, as the investigator has pointed out, its not our role to punish a business 
when mistakes occur but they are seen to put consumers back to the position they would 
have been prior to any mistakes made. While Ms W may not agree I am satisfied the 
apology from Barclays, the interest adjustment bringing her ESA balance back to where it 
would have been  prior to their mistake and the £100 in compensation, is fair and reasonable 
here. 
While Ms W will be disappointed with my decision, I will not be asking anymore of Barclays. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman