DRN-3135543
The complaint
Mr D complains that the loans he had from Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely 
Loans) were unaffordable for him and that it was irresponsible for it to have approved the 
lending.
What happened
Mr D had two loans from Likely Loans in May 2017 and December 2019 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Repayment Due Repaid
1 23 May 2017 £3,000 12m £319.49 23 May 2018 23 Feb 2018
2 30 Dec 2019 £1,000 12m £91.85 30 Dec 2020 On time
Mr D says that Likely Loans lent to him when he was already in financial difficulties. He says 
he had a number of other loans at the time and that all his money was spent on gambling 
and repaying other debts. Mr D says Likely Loans should have carried out better checks 
before agreeing to lend to him as the stress has led to the breakdown of various 
relationships.
Likely Loans says it conducted its standard credit checks and verified the income figure Mr D 
provided for loan 2. It says it also used a statistical average figure to estimate Mr Ds other 
expenditure. It says the loans were to be used for debt consolidation and it had no reason to 
request any further information based on the results of its checks. Likely Loans says it felt 
the checks were proportionate and did not indicate any issues with gambling. It adds that 
Mr D repaid both loans on time, or early, and did not advise of any financial difficulties in the 
process. However, Likely Loans offered to uphold the complaint about loan 1 as its 
investigation revealed that further checks should have been undertaken to verify Mr Ds 
income and the affordability of the repayments. It said it would refund any interest on the 
loan (plus 8% statutory interest) and confirmed it had not reported any negative information 
on his credit file with regard to loan 1.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said that Likely 
Loanss offer for loan 1 was in line with this services standard approach so she only 
considered loan 2. Our adjudicator was satisfied Likely Loans carried out proportionate 
checks for loan 2, and there was nothing in the available information to indicate the 
repayments were unsustainable.
Mr D responded to say, in summary, that he had a £1,000 loan with another company at the 
time of loan 2 and had recently lost over £3,000 on gambling. He said multiple other loan 
companies had declined loan applications and he had a very low credit rating at the time. 
Mr D adds that Likely Loans enabled him to continue gambling and thereby worsened his 
financial situation and contributed to relationship breakdowns with his partner, children and 
friends. He says his low outgoings compared with his income, combined with a low credit 
score, should have been a warning sign to Likely Loans of someone living beyond their 
means. Mr D said if Likely Loans had requested bank statements it would have seen the 
severity of his gambling addiction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Likely Loans lent to Mr D. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Likely Loans needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
At the time of the initial lending CONC 5.3.1G stated that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In November 2018, before Mr D applied for loan 2, the wording of the regulations changed, 
although the main requirements stayed the same.
CONC 5.2A.4R states that:
A firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before:
1. entering into a regulated credit agreement; or2. significantly increasing the amount of credit provided under a regulated credit 
agreement.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Ds case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ds loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Likely Loans make a fair lending decision?
Did Likely Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loan 1
Likely Loans has upheld Mr Ds complaint about the affordability of loan 1 as it 
acknowledged its checks didnt go far enough. As the offer is in line with this services 
standard approach, I find this is fair and reasonable and I wont consider loan 1 further in this 
decision.
Loan 2
Ive seen evidence to show Likely Loans verified Mr Ds income, checked his credit file and 
estimated his other regular expenditure. Im satisfied that these checks went far enough for 
Mr Ds second loan because:
Mr D had already demonstrated he could sustainably repay over £300 per month as hed 
repaid loan 1 early in February 2018;
It was almost two years before Mr D applied for a second loan which did not indicate he 
was dependent on this type of lending;Loan 2 required him to repay £91.85 per month which was only 3.5% of his verified 
income;
Likely Loanss credit check showed:
oNo County Court Judgements or defaults and all Mr Ds accounts were up to date 
with payments;
oSeven active accounts with a combined balance of less than £7,000;
The affordability calculation indicated Mr D had over £1,100 of disposable income.
For the above reasons, I dont consider there was anything in the results of the checks that 
suggested Mr D was struggling financially, or that Likely Loans needed to carry out further 
checks.
I accept what Mr D says about the level of gambling Likely Loans would have seen in his 
bank statements at the time, but I dont find it would have been proportionate for it to carry 
out that level of checks given the circumstances of the lending and the information it already 
had.
So Im satisfied that Likely Loans considered the repayments were affordable and made a 
fair lending decision for loan 2.
I understand Likely Loans has also confirmed it will settle Loan 1, in line with its final 
response, on receipt of this decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2022.
 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman