DRN-3042977
The complaint
Mrs M complains about her insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA), regarding 
delays and the standard of service in dealing with a claim under her home insurance policy 
for damage caused to her property from an escape of water.
 
References to RSA include their agents involved in assessing and dealing with claims. Mrs 
M was supported in her complaint by a representative, references to Mrs M include her 
representative.
What happened
In September 2020 Mrs M noticed a leak from a bathroom at her property. She contacted 
RSA to make a claim, who asked her to provide a quote to reinstate the bathroom. Mrs M 
engaged a contractor, who prepared an estimate for the work. RSA appointed an assessor 
(B) to validate the claim. B inspected Mrs Ms property in November 2020. As the estimate 
was more than £10,000 RSA also appointed a loss adjuster (S) to assess the claim, who 
inspected the damage later in November 2020, noting Mrs Ms contractor had already 
stripped out the bathroom. RSA also appointed a contractor to carry out the drying of the 
bathroom, ahead of the reinstatement work. The drying was completed in December 2020.
In January 2021 RSA offered Mrs M two options to settle the claim. Either they could appoint 
a contractor to carry out the reinstatement work, or they would pay a cash settlement so Mrs 
M could appoint her own contractors. Mrs M asked RSA to include additional work on a 
garden room, so RSA appointed one of their contractors (M) to scope the work. M visited the 
property in March 2021 and sent a copy of the proposed scope to Mrs M and RSA offered a 
cash settlement based on the scope. Mrs M was unhappy at the offer and the time taken to 
deal with the claim, so she complained to RSA. She was particularly unhappy the offer didnt 
include replacement of sanitaryware and fittings, and that the scope wasnt costed in detail.
RSA upheld her complaint in part. They accepted the claim could have been handled better 
and that here were delays on their part. They hadnt always communicated with Mrs M when 
she contacted them and there was a delay in logging her complaint. In recognition of this, 
RSA offered Mrs M compensation of £200. On the claim itself, RSA said that where they had 
contractors who could carry out the reinstatement, the cash settlement offer was based on 
what it would cost RSA to carry out the work. On the sanitaryware and fittings, RSA said 
they would refit rather than replace items unless they were damaged when removed. RSA 
confirmed its offer (net of the policy excess) for strip out and reinstatement (£13,437); trace 
and access works (£759 per Mrs Ms contractor quote); and reimbursement of electricity 
used while drying took place (£105).
Mrs M then complained to this service. She was unhappy at how RSA had dealt with her 
claim, including the delays. She was also unhappy at a detailed, priced schedule of works 
not being provided to enable her to assess the cash settlement offered. She was also 
unhappy at the sanitaryware and fittings being excluded, as well as work carried out in 
respect of trace and access and stripping out of the bathroom. Mrs M wanted RSA to pay for 
items excluded from the claim and didnt think that the £200 compensation was enough.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding that RSA didnt need to take any 
further action. He concluded that it was reasonable for RSA not to provide a costed schedule 
of works on the grounds of commercial sensitivity. He also thought Mrs M hadnt shown that 
the sanitaryware and fittings were damaged on removal, so RSA acted reasonably in 
excluding them. The investigator also concluded it was fair for RSA to include the cost of 
strip out work in the cash settlement offer at the rates they would have paid their contractors. 
The investigator also thought the £200 compensation offered was fair in the circumstances.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. Mrs M indicated that she would be prepared to accept RSAs settlement offer, 
subject to resolution of two issues: the cost of the strip out works by her contractor and the 
cost of fittings (brassware). RSA paid the settlement offer. Our investigator considered the 
two issues but concluded that RSA didnt need to do anything more to put things right.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether RSA has acted fairly towards Mrs M.
Ive noted that Mrs M accepted RSAs settlement offer. But she wanted an ombudsman to 
consider two remaining issues, the cost of strip out works and the cost of brassware.
While Mrs M asked that I look at these two issues, I have considered the other aspects of 
her complaint to this service. Having done so, I agree RSA acted fairly and reasonably in its 
cash settlement offer (£13,437); the cost of electricity (£105); and costs for trace and access 
(£759) and carpet (£40). I also agree that RSA acted reasonably in not providing a costed 
scope of works due to commercial sensitivity. I also think the £200 compensation figure fair 
in the circumstances.
Turning to the first of Mrs Ms two issues, the strip out costs, Ive considered carefully what 
Mrs M and RSA have said, together with the information and evidence theyve provided. Mrs 
M maintains B approved her contractors costs prior to the works being carried out. RSAs 
view is that, firstly, it didnt agree to reimburse the cost of Mrs Ms contractor carrying out the 
work and, secondly, that they included the cost of the work (at the rates they would have 
paid their own contractors) within the cash settlement offer.
 
On the first aspect. Ive not seen any clear evidence that B (or RSA) approved the costs of 
Mrs Ms contractor prior to the work being carried out. Theres an email from B to Mrs M a 
few days before the strip out took place but it doesnt indicate approval for the cost. In the 
absence of clear evidence, Im not persuaded that approval was given for the work.
On the second aspect. looking at the scope of work produced by M, it includes strip out work 
and notes that this has already been carried out by a 3rd Party (Mrs Ms contractor). Ive also 
looked at the policy terms and conditions and they provide for RSA to settle claims on a cash 
settlement basis, using rates they could obtain from their own contractors. Its reasonable for 
RSA to have included an element covering this in their cash settlement offer.
 
Ive also noted that Mrs M accepted RSAs cash settlement offer that was based on Ms 
scope of works. The offer, referred to in RSAs final response letter, is described as Strip out 
and reinstatement. RSAs case notes also indicate that they confirmed to Mrs M that their 
settlement offer included all aspects of strip out costs. So, Ive concluded that RSA have 
included strip out costs within their cash settlement.
 Together with my conclusion on the first aspect, I dont think RSA have acted unreasonably 
and they dont need to do anything more in respect of strip out work.
On the second issue, Mrs M maintains that the brassware was damaged during the strip out 
of the bathroom, and as such should be reimbursed by RSA. In support of this view, during 
her complaint to this service, Mrs M provided a report from her contractor which states that 
the brassware wasnt salvageable. The report states:
Due to the conditions in the ensuite we found that the gold-plated brassware steel 
retaining nuts had corroded onto the threaded brass/steel underside of appliance, 
likewise the tap connectors were also corroded onto the thread rods.
This has resulted in the brassware no longer being fit for purpose.
As RSA, in their final response letter, stated that they would only consider covering the cost 
of the brassware (and sanitaryware other than the shower tray) if Mrs M could evidence and 
prove that they were damaged during the strip out, our investigator asked RSA to consider 
Mrs Ms contractor report. They didnt think the report proved that was the case, given that it 
hadnt previously been indicated that the items were damaged during strip out. In respect of 
the brassware specifically, they also said that the nature of the damage in the contractors 
report suggested damage from a gradual cause, or wear and tear, corrosion, deterioration or 
similar cause. These would be exclusions under the policy, so wouldnt be covered. They 
didnt change their position that the brassware wouldnt be covered under the claim (nor that 
they wouldnt cover the sanitaryware, other than the shower tray).
Ive considered the evidence on this point carefully. Ive noted that the contractor Mrs M 
engaged to carry out the strip out work provided an invoice at the end of November 2020 
referring to To take out and set aside the entire bathroom suite, accessories. Ive also 
noted Ss report following their visit includes a comment that we understand it [the bathroom 
suite] has been put to one side for reinstatement. Ive also looked at the further report from 
Mrs Ms contractor, specifically the comments about the condition of the brassware.
  
On balance, Im not persuaded that the evidence proves that the brassware was damaged 
by the strip out of the bathroom, given that the evidence from the reports at the time of the 
strip out doesnt indicate the brassware was damaged. Ive also considered RSAs argument 
that, insofar as the later contractors report indicates damage to the brassware, it would be 
excluded under the policy. The policy terms and conditions specifically include an exclusion 
for corrosion. 
Taking all these factors together, Ive concluded that RSA havent acted unreasonably in 
declining to cover the cost of the brassware and I dont think they need to take any further 
action in this regard.
Taking my conclusions on these two issues together with my conclusions on RSAs 
settlement of the other elements of the claim and their compensation figure, Ive concluded 
that RSA have acted fairly and reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman