DRN-2828949
The complaint
Miss G complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Aqua (Aqua) should not have provided her 
with a credit card and then increased the credit limit, as it was not affordable for her.
What happened
Miss G applied for and was given a credit card with Aqua in May 2016, with a credit limit of 
£250. Aqua then increased Miss Gs limit: to £400 in around December 2016; to £650 in 
around July 2017; to £1,350 in around June 2018; and £2,250 in around May 2019. 
Miss G complained to Aqua in September 2019 about irresponsible lending. She said it 
should not have allowed her to take out a credit card. Miss G said Aqua should have 
checked her credit file to see that she had raised her overdraft limit and taken out two other 
credit cards the month before taking out the Aqua card. Miss G also said in the first year of 
having her Aqua card, she had increased her limits on a variety of other borrowing and was 
missing payments. She also said when her credit limit was raised in 2019 she had a very low 
credit score. Miss G said trying to make minimum payments was a struggle. 
Aqua responded to Miss G. It said it raised the credit limit on Miss Gs card in August 2017 
and prior to that she had missed payments and increased her credit limits on other credit 
facilities. It said despite Miss G only making the minimum payment towards her account, it 
increased the credit limit further in 2018. Aqua said Miss G was a student at the time and 
had a limited income and it was apparent from Miss Gs credit file that trying to make the 
minimum payment was a struggle. It said by June 2019 it was clear Miss Gs spending was 
more than her income. Aqua didnt uphold Miss Gs complaint but, as a gesture of goodwill, 
refunded all over limit fees applied since the credit limit was raised in June 2018. 
Miss G was unhappy with what Aqua said and so referred her complaint to this service. She 
said she regularly missed payments and had significant charges added to her account. She 
asked that Aqua refund all interest and late payment charges and that any late payment and 
default markers should be removed from her credit file. 
Our investigator upheld Miss Gs complaint. She said when Miss G initially applied for the 
card she was asked for income details, and a credit search showed she had no CCJs or 
short-term lending. So our investigator thought the initial checks were proportionate and 
Aqua acted responsibly when it offered Miss G the credit card with a £250 limit, and also 
when it increased the credit limit to £400 in December 2016. However, our investigator 
thought that by July 2017 Miss G had exceeded her credit limit several times and said Aqua 
shouldnt have increased her limit to £650. And that all credit limit increases after this point 
shouldnt have been provided either.  
In order to put things right, our investigator said Aqua should refund all interest and charges 
since the £650 credit limit increase; add 8% simple interest from the date of each repayment 
to the date of settlement; remove any adverse credit file information since the credit limit 
increase of £650 and arrange an affordable repayment plan if any capital was owed.
 
Aqua didnt agree with the outcome and said when the credit limit was increased to £650 
Miss Gs overall indebtedness had decreased. And that high utilisation on its own is not 
considered a reason not to increase a credit limit. Aqua also said 8% interest should only be 
paid where a consumer has been deprived of the use of the money, and thats not applicable 
here as Aqua is still owed the money and Miss G hasnt engaged with it in trying to work out 
a repayment plan. 
Because Aqua didnt agree with the outcome, this came to me for a decision. 
I contacted both parties and told them I intended to come to a slightly different conclusion to 
that of our investigator. I said I thought it was reasonable for Aqua to offer Miss G the credit 
card and to increase the credit limit to £400 and then to £650. But I thought from then 
onwards, further increases should not have been offered. I said I intended to say that Aqua 
should do the following: 
Refund all interest, over limit charges, late payment and debt collection fees since 
the credit limit was increased in June 2018, less any over limit charges already 
refunded.
The refunds should be deducted from the total amount owed by Miss G. If this 
resulted in an overpayment on the account, then any overpayments should be 
refunded to Miss G with 8% simple interest. 
Remove any adverse credit file information from the date of the credit limit increase 
in June 2018. This is because I think its unlikely Miss G would be in the position 
shes in, were it not for the credit limit increases that were unaffordable. 
But any adverse credit file information that pre-dates this increase does not need to 
be removed. And Aqua should be allowed to continue to report to credit reference 
agencies on how Miss G is managing her debt with it, once it has carried out what I 
have asked it to do and given Miss G the opportunity to enter into a payment plan 
with it or its agents.
Miss G responded and agreed with the suggested outcome. 
Aqua responded and said it agreed with the first two points made, but made the following 
comments: 
It said with these types of cases, its usually required to refund interest charges 
proportionately, so interest charged by it only on the increased balance following the 
credit limit increase. And this is because interest charged on any balance to £650 
has been fairly charged. 
It said the proportionate refund is £1,812.46 against a balance of £2,622.36, so 8% 
simple interest is not due. 
It has tried to contact Miss G to arrange payment, but she has not responded. So if 
credit file information is amended and Miss G continues to not engage and no 
arrangement is agreed, then adverse information will need to appear on the credit file 
again. And adverse information is recorded elsewhere, so it didnt agree that it should 
do this. 
I am now in a position to issue a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I am upholding this complaint.
In coming to my decision, I have taken into account the regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time the card was initially taken out and the credit increases were offered, and 
whether Aquas actions were fair, given Miss Gs circumstances.
The rules concerning lenders obligations when it comes to providing credit are set out in the 
FCA Consumer Credit Sourcebook rules (CONC). It follows these general principles: 
A lender must carry out proportionate checks to determine whether credit (and significant 
increases to credit limits) was, as far as the lender could tell, affordable and sustainable and 
would not adversely affect the customer. A proportionate check will depend on many things, 
such as what a lender knows about the customer, size of credit, term for repayment, and 
their lending history. The detail sought while considering an increase would be expected to 
be more in-depth the more significant the increase is. 
I agree with what our investigator said about Aqua having carried out proportionate checks 
when Miss G first applied for the credit card, and that it acted responsibly when it offered the 
card to her. And Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Aqua to offer the credit limit 
increases to £400 and then to £600. 
I say this because Miss G was employed with an income of around £8,500 and credit agency 
checks showed there were no arrears, arrangements or defaults. And when Miss Gs credit 
limit was increased to £650, her overall level of indebtedness had decreased and Miss G 
was more often than not paying more than the minimum amount. And although Miss G had 
occasionally gone over her credit limit, she had only done so by a marginal amount. 
But Im satisfied Aqua should not have offered Miss G the credit limit increase to £1,350 in 
June 2018, and the increase to £2,250 in May 2019. I say this because I can see that once 
the limit increased to £650, Miss G was more often than not over her credit limit. And she 
was increasingly making only the minimum monthly payment. In addition, by around June 
2018  when the increase to £1,350 happened  Miss Gs level of external indebtedness had 
almost doubled. Given this, Im satisfied Aqua should not have offered to more than double 
her credit limit. I think there was enough information available to Aqua at this point that it 
should have questioned whether the increased credit limit, and the debt that would have 
come with it, was unaffordable to Miss G. 
Miss G has had the benefit of the money borrowed, so she will need to repay the principal 
amount.
Ive taken on board what Aqua said about a refunding a proportionate amount of the interest 
fees charged, and so the following are the steps Aqua need to take to put things right: 
Refund interest charges applied to the increased balance following the credit limit 
increase to £1,350 in June 2018. 
Refund over limit charges, late payment and debt collection fees since the credit limit 
was increased in June 2018. I understand the over limit charges may already have 
been refunded. 
Had there been an overpayment following the above refunds being deducted from 
Miss Gs account, then this would have needed to be repaid with 8% simple interest. 
Aqua has already calculated the refund amount and no monies are owed to Miss G. 
So interest is not applicable here. 
Remove any adverse credit file information from the date of the credit limit increase 
to £1,350 in June 2018. This is because I think its unlikely Miss G would be in the position shes in were it not for the credit limit increases that were unaffordable. But 
any adverse information that pre-dates this increase does not need to be removed. 
And Aqua should be allowed to continue to report to credit reference agencies on 
how Miss G is managing her debt with it, once it has carried out what I have asked it 
to do and given Miss G the opportunity to enter into a payment plan with it or its 
agents.
  
My final decision
I am upholding this complaint and require NewDay Ltd to carry out the actions outlined 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman