DRN-3930654
The complaint
Mr B complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a type of personal pension arrangement known as a 
SIPP, in November 2017. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
Mr B originally dealt with a differently named firm during the advice process, but Chequers 
Wealth Management Limited is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep 
things consistent, Ill refer mainly to CWML.
CWML is now represented by a liquidator although my understanding is there are still assets 
in the business. Even though much of the responses weve had are from the liquidator, as it 
is representing the business, Ill still refer to it as CWML for ease of understanding.
What happened
Mr B was a deferred member of the OPS which was operated by his previous employer. 
Hed accrued over 13 years worth of benefits. The information gathered about Mr B at the 
time of the advice was as follows:
Mr B was 38 years old, married and with two dependent children. He and Mrs B were 
in good health.
They lived in a home valued at approximately £180,000, which had an outstanding 
mortgage of around £125,000. The mortgage had over 20 years left to run. They also 
had an unsecured loan of £8,000 with three years left to run.
Mr B earned £22,000 per year and Mr Bs earnings were around £9,000 per year. 
They had only a small amount of savings. They had no other major assets although 
Mr B was a member of a pension scheme with his current employer. This other 
pension isnt the subject of any complaint.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Bs DB pension was approximately 
£156,675. The normal retirement age (NRA) of the scheme was 62. 
Mr B had since moved on to a different employer where said he expected to 
eventually retire at the age of 65, although CWML said hed told it he would try to 
wind down to part-time work if possible before that.
CWML set out its advice in a recommendation report in November 2017. It was 
recommended he should transfer out and invest the funds in a SIPP. CWML said this would 
allow Mr B to achieve his objectives.
Mr B accepted this advice and so transferred from his DB scheme to a personal pension 
arrangement. In 2022 Mr B complained to CWML about its advice, saying he shouldnt have 
been advised to transfer out of his DB scheme. In response, CWML said it hadnt done 
anything wrong and was acting on the financial objectives Mr B had at the time. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint 
and said it should be upheld. CWML still doesnt agree with this.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of CWML's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, CWML should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
Ive used all the information we have to consider whether transferring away from the DB 
scheme was in Mr Bs best interests. 
I dont think it was, so Im upholding his complaint.
Financial viability 
As required by the regulator, to demonstrate the financial comparisons between his current 
scheme and transferring out to a SIPP, CWML referred in its transfer analysis to critical 
yield rates.  
The critical yield is essentially the average annual investment return that would be required 
on the transfer value - from the time of advice until retirement - to provide the same benefits 
as the DB scheme. It is therefore part of a range of different things which help show how likely it is that a personal pension arrangement could achieve the necessary investment 
growth for a transfer-out to become financially viable. 
CWML said the critical yield required to match Mr Bs full DB scheme benefits at the NRA of 
62 was 6.62% (if taking no lump sum) and 5.93% (with a lump sum). The critical yields for a 
retirement at the age of 55 were somewhat similar, at 6.86% and 5.88% respectively.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor. At the time, CWML assessed Mr Bs attitude to 
risk (ATR) as balanced.
The relevant discount rates closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to were 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017 were 
4.5% per year for a retirement at the age of 62, and 4.3% (for a retirement at age 55), which 
are both below the critical yield figures Ive set out above.
However, the SIPP providers own mid-rate growth assumption was only 2.44% per year, 
again well below the critical yield rates. Ive also kept in mind that the regulator's upper 
projection rate was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 
2%. So even if I consider the highest of these mid (or balanced) rate assumptions to be the 
most relevant, this would be no more than the regulators 5% mid-growth assumption, which 
hadnt been changed for some years. And all this means none of the above growth 
assumptions came close enough to the critical yield rates. From a financial comparison 
perspective therefore, no case was made out by CWML for transferring. Mr B would be likely 
to obtain pension benefits of a lower overall value than the scheme he was in, over the 
longer term.
Ive also noted that CWML said that in order to purchase an annuity to provide benefits of 
equal value to the existing scheme at a retirement age of 62, the funds required would be 
around £452,104 (£388,291 if taking a lump sum). These figures were well above Mr Bs 
CETV and so they provide a revealing window, in my view, into the true value of the DB 
scheme Mr B was being advised to leave. 
Ive also taken account of certain age projections that CWML said Mr Bs pension funds 
could last to, if he transferred away. These were included in the transfer analysis CWML 
commissioned. This said that in some circumstances, if Mr B transferred away, his funds 
could last until he was up to 120 years old. However, I think these estimations needed to be 
seriously contextualised; they were certainly not comparing like with like against the scheme 
Mr B was being recommended to leave and hed have lost the substantial guarantees and 
benefits this scheme contained for himself and his family members. These were not credible 
comparisons.
In my view, there was simply no reliable evidence from CWML here that Mr Bs transferred 
funds could confidently exceed the critical yields compared with Mr B remaining in his 
existing scheme. 
Of course, CWMLs recommendation that he should transfer out to a personal pension was 
not wholly based on the financial comparisons with his current scheme alone. Rather, 
CWML said Mr B also had other reasons to transfer away, so Ive thought about all the other considerations which might have meant a transfer was suitable for him, despite providing the 
overall lower benefits mentioned above. Ive considered these below. 
Flexibility and income needs
Ive used a combination of what was in CWMLs recommendation report and the various 
client information forms it completed about Mr B to help determine what CWML said were 
the main objectives for transferring out of the DB scheme. A full recommendation report was 
produced on 29 November 2018. Our investigator pointed out previously that there was an 
objectives section in the report in which Mr B evidently said that he:
Wanted to be in control of where his pension was invested.
Wanted to potentially look at going part time at age 55 before retiring at age 62.
Wanted to take advantage of the flexibility afforded by pension freedom legislation, 
specifically the ability to take tax free cash as and when he wanted, and the ability to 
adjust income to suit his needs.
Was attracted to a personal pension as surplus monies in the fund could be passed 
to his children in the event of his death, rather than providing a reduced pension for 
his wife.
So, it seems the supporting reasons that CWML recommended the transfer out to a personal 
pension arrangement was for the flexibility and control it offered to Mr B. I have therefore 
considered all these issues in turn. 
Control of where his pension was invested
CWML implied that Mr B would be able to have control over the pension and where the 
money was being invested, if he transferred out. But Ive seen nothing which shows Mr B 
had either the desire or capacity to exercise personal control over his pension. Mr Bs 
previous exposure to investing was not really known and the fact-find had no details of any 
such investments at the time. Mr B also says he wasnt  and has never been  a 
sophisticated investor and there is no evidence to contradict this. And to grow the transferred 
funds in the way CWML later said he could, a much higher degree of knowledge and indeed 
risk exposure would have been required.
So I think this was no more than a stock objective used in an attempt to help justify the 
transfer-out recommendation. In my view, theres no persuasive evidence Mr B ought to 
have irreversibly transferred away from his DB scheme on this basis.
Semi-retiring early / taking tax-free cash
CWML has mentioned several times that Mr B wanted to reduce his working hours at the 
age of 55 and retire at 62. However, theres conflicting information about this as theres also 
a clear indication from documents at the time showing Mr B expected to retire at 65. An 
example of this can be found in the pension transfer document where it clearly says his 
intended retirement age is 65. CWMLs reference to retirement is therefore inconsistent, and 
in my view unreliable.
I dont doubt that Mr B might have genuinely hoped to reduce his working hours at an early 
age. But Ive seen nothing that shows this was anything more than something he aspired to 
do at that stage, as opposed to being part of a formulated plan. I say this because Mr B was only 38 years old at the time and its simply not credible that he had any concrete plans for 
retirement or semi-retirement at that point. 
CWML also promoted to Mr B that he could access more tax-free cash if he transferred to a 
personal pension plan. It said hed be able to access 25% of his pension as a lump-sum and 
then use the remaining funds more flexibly. Its usually the case that more tax-free cash can 
be accessed from a personal pension when compared against a DB scheme; this is because 
the values and benefits of the two schemes are calculated differently. But CWML should 
have been telling Mr B at the time that extra tax-free lump sums being removed from a 
personal pension, potentially from mid to late fifties in his case, also came with 
consequences in that the amount left for his later retirement years would obviously 
decrease. 
Even if I were to consider the unlikely scenario that Mr Bs retirement plans were more fixed 
than the mere aspirations set out by CWML - and he really did want to retire or semi-retire 
early - I think CWML should have assessed the possibility of achieving this goal whilst being 
a member of his current scheme. Early retirement under the existing scheme he was already 
in would still have been an option for Mr B, although this would have meant Mr Bs pension 
benefits would have been somewhat different due to him accessing the pension earlier and 
for longer. But I think this was discounted by CWML as Ive seen no evidence it was 
realistically discussed with a view to assessing whether it was more in Mr Bs best interests. 
The advice simply focussed on him transferring away completely.
So, whilst I accept the notion of retiring early and / or accessing tax-free cash might have 
been appealing, this needed to be considered against the other options Mr B faced, 
including opting for remaining in the DB scheme. 
I also cant see that Mr B required flexibility in retirement in the way CWML suggested. 
CWML said that Mr Bs estimated annual pension upon his NRA (62) was £8,310 per year or 
£5,998 together with a tax-free lump sum of £39,926. As a DB pension this was guaranteed 
and index linked. 
However, as he was so young, it wasnt possible to say what Mr Bs financial and income 
needs were likely to be in retirement. He couldnt even yet be described as mid-career. And 
I havent seen anything to persuade me that Mr B wouldnt have been able to meet his likely 
retirement income needs by accessing his DB pension instead of transferring out to a 
personal pension plan. This is because, as well as retirement being a long time away, we 
know Mr B had already joined his employers new pension scheme and could have been 
making contributions to it for up to twenty-six years more, until he retired. CWML referred to 
this pension when it disagreed with our investigators View letter but it clearly knows very 
little about it. Nevertheless, it implies it was a defined contribution (DC) scheme and I think at 
least part of it probably was. However, I think Mr Bs contributions to this second pension 
were most likely being added to by his employer and so I think theres every reason to say 
that by retirement  whenever it came  there would have been a substantial amount in this 
second pension to complement his existing deferred DB scheme. CWML failed to take this 
into account.
I think therefore, that by retirement, Mr B could have been in a good position if hed 
remained with his DB scheme. On one hand hed have had a long-standing and solid DB 
pension - one with all the guarantees and benefits this type of scheme brought. And on the 
other hand, hed have built up a substantial second pension over many years, which, if he 
later found he did require flexibility, this pension could have probably provided it.
I have therefore considered what CWML said about retiring early and the potential flexibility 
brought about by transferring to a personal plan: it said this would include how funds were invested, the level of income he could withdraw from it and a greater ability to flexibly use the 
tax-free lump sum element.  However, I dont think recommending a transfer-out based on 
these reasons was suitable because so little was known about what his retirement would 
look like as he was far too young. 
So, I think Mr Bs circumstances were much more aligned to him remaining in the DB 
scheme and retiring from that when he felt he was ready to do so, and then drawing a DB 
pension. Because he also had a second pension, this supported that strategy, in my view. 
I therefore think the much more suitable option was for Mr B to access his DB pension in the 
way it was originally intended.
Death benefits 
CWML says that death benefits were discussed at the time and the personal pension would 
more flexibly enable the retention of the value of the funds if Mr B died. But Im afraid I think 
this too was no more than a stock objective with no real relevance to Mr Bs situation. In 
fact, I think the opposite was true.
The lump sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension was probably made to 
look like an attractive feature to Mr B. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to 
consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was a good idea to transfer the DB scheme to a 
SIPP because of this, the priority here was to advise him about what was best for his 
retirement provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. 
I think saying Mr Bs death benefits would improve in a personal pension because he could 
pass over all his funds to his wife / children needed putting into context. Only in his thirties 
and in good health, he and Mrs B had two young children. His wife could have been 
supported financially in the event of his death by accessing generous death benefits 
contained within the scheme. Similar provisions related to his children whilst they were in full 
time education  and the youngest was still pre-school age. In my view, the likely death 
benefits attached to the new DB scheme were highly relevant to Mr and Mrs B and they 
were also substantially underplayed. 
The spouses pension provided by the DB scheme would have been useful to Mrs B if Mr B 
predeceased her and I dont think CWML made the value of this benefit clear enough. As a 
father, I think the child specific benefits would also have been meaningful to Mr B. These 
were guaranteed and they escalated  they were not dependent on investment performance, 
whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. In any event, there may not 
have been a large sum left anyway in a personal pension upon Mr Bs passing, particularly if 
he lived a long life; this could have been decades away. CWML should therefore not have 
encouraged Mr B to prioritise the potential for higher death benefits through a personal 
pension over his security in retirement.
It also doesnt appear that CWML took into account the fact that Mr B could have nominated 
Mrs B as the beneficiary of any funds remaining in his DC scheme. So, to this end, Mr B had 
already ensured part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
I cant see whether, or the extent to which, life insurance was discussed in this case. But at 
38 years old, this would have been a reasonably affordable product if Mr B really did want to 
leave a legacy for Mrs B and their children. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B. I think this objective was 
no more than a generic comment and not meaningful to Mr Bs situation. Other issues
CWML has asked me to consider the fact that Mr Bs CETV was evidently at a high and 
agreeable level. It said, for example, that the CETV represented over 33 times (x 33) the 
pension at NRA.
In fact, it seems to me that following our investigation, CWML is now using this valuation as 
its main reason justifying the transfer in the first place. So, Ive thought carefully about this.
We know there was indeed a sustained period of higher CETV valuations in DB pensions. 
This was caused, in the main, by very low interest rates and corresponding bond yields. But 
firstly, at the time this advice was given to Mr B, I dont think there was any real expectation 
that these macro-economic conditions would change for some time. And as Ive said, Mr Bs 
pension was there for his retirement, not to speculate with; and in my view he could ill afford 
to lose this substantial part of his retirement provision. 
So again, CWML makes no more than a generic point here, without specific reference to Mr 
Bs personal circumstances of the time. 
CWML also asked me to consider that no loss has been suffered by Mr B. It provides no 
substance to this, but of course, we will find out how much loss, if any, was incurred through 
the redress calculations Ive directed below.
Suitability of investments
CWML recommended that Mr B invest in funds within a SIPP. As Im upholding the 
complaint on the grounds that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Mr B, it 
follows that I dont need to consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is 
because Mr B should have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the 
investments in the SIPP funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a SIPP would have sounded like attractive features to Mr B. But CWML wasnt there 
to just transact what Mr B might have thought he wanted. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr B needed and recommend what was in his best interests. There were 
comprehensive failings in CWMLs advice.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the DB scheme. By transferring to a 
personal pension arrangement, the evidence shows Mr B was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. CWML ought to have advised him against transferring 
out of his DB scheme for these reasons, particularly as it meant hed probably be worse off 
in retirement.
So, I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer from his DB scheme to a 
personal pension plan when he was unlikely to be able to improve on his existing scheme 
benefits.
I have considered, given the circumstances of the time, whether Mr B would have 
transferred to a personal pension in any event. I accept that CWML disclosed some of the 
risks of transferring to Mr B, and provided him with a certain amount of information. But 
ultimately it advised Mr B to transfer out, and I think Mr B relied on that advice.Im not persuaded that Mr B would have insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme, 
against CWMLs advice. I say this because Mr B paid to have advice and this pension 
accounted for most of his retirement provision at the time. So, if CWML had provided him 
with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his 
best interests, I think he would have accepted that advice.
Mr B still had a over 23 years before he reached his DB schemes NRA. But this might have 
been longer as hed said he intended to work until he was 65. In my view, with a young 
family, a mortgage and his life largely ahead of him he simply couldnt yet know what his 
needs in retirement would be. By remaining in his DB scheme, Mr B would have retained the 
ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he really needed to. By 
leaving, he lost valuable benefits and guarantees.
On this basis, it was far too soon to transfer away. I think Mr B would have chosen to remain 
in his current scheme if he had been properly advised. So, I think CWML should compensate 
Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer 
redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice. 
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr B, through his representative, whether he preferred any redress 
to be calculated now, in line with current guidance, or wait for any new guidance/rules to be 
published. He didnt specify a preference, so I am therefore satisfied that a calculation in line 
with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is identified, will provide fair redress for Mr B. 
Compensation should be based on his schemes normal retirement age of 62, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. This calculation should be carried out as at the 
date of my final decision and using the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that 
decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of the decision.
CWML may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date CWML receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes CWML to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect CWML to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint.
I now direct Chequers Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation 
amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require Chequers Wealth 
Management Limited to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out above. 
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Chequers 
Wealth Management Limited to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Chequers Wealth Management Limited pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Chequers Wealth 
Management Limited.My recommendation would not be binding if he doesnt accept. Further, its unlikely that Mr B 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman