DRN-3805733
The complaint
Mr H complains that Telefonica UK Limited trading as O2 unfairly holds him responsible for 
lending he says he didnt give authority for.
What happened
Mr H says that in late 2021 he became aware that a third party had entered into a fixed sum 
loan with Telefonica in October 2020 to fund the purchase of a mobile phone. He raised a 
complaint with Telefonica in January 2022.
Telefonica responded in April 2022. It said that Mr H had entered into an agreement with it in 
2009 and that subsequently a number of agreements had been entered into  most recently 
one in March 2018, December 2019 as well as October 2020. Telefonica noted that all of the 
agreements had been repaid by direct debit, and that the direct debit for the most recent 
agreement was cancelled, leading to the termination of the agreement.
Based on what Mr H had told it, Telefonica didnt think there was sufficient evidence to 
suggest that the most recent agreement had been entered into fraudulently, without Mr Hs 
authority. It suggested that based on what Mr H had said, it appeared a family member had 
been using the devices.
Mr H didnt agree, so he referred the matter to this service. He said, in summary;
- He is only disputing the most recent agreement hes been asked to repay.
- He became aware of the agreement when he spotted direct debit payments being 
taken which he hadnt authorised.
- He didnt recognise the telephone number associated with the agreement.
- To his knowledge, a family member didnt have access to his Telefonica account.
- The email address associated with the account was not one known to him.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said that theyd seen evidence that mobile 
handsets had been acquired through Mr Hs account with Telefonica  accessed using a 
valid email address and password  on five occasions between 2011 and 2018. They said 
that the agreements had been repaid by direct debits set up in Mr Hs name and it appeared 
the goods had been delivered to his home address.
They noted that the email address on Mr Hs account had been changed to what they 
thought most likely to be a family members address in 2012  and that Mr H had suggested 
a family member had used the account at some point. And because there was a number of 
subsequent agreements, all of which had been repaid and the devices seem to have been 
sent to Mr Hs home address, it strongly pointed towards Mr H having had an agreement 
with someone known to him. They highlighted that Mr H had cancelled the direct debit in 
relation to this agreement in November 2021 but hadnt raised the issue with Telefonica until 
January 2022. Ultimately, they concluded that Mr H had likely given authority to a family 
member to enter into the agreement in question on his behalf. 
Mr H disagreed. He accounted for a delay in raising the matter with Telefonica due to him 
having been out of the country. He said that he had at no time entered into any agreements 
with family members to purchase products on his behalf. He said that Telefonica ought to 
have written to him for personal authorisation before putting the agreement in place. 
Our investigator disagreed that Telefonica ought to have written to Mr H. They said that they 
didnt think Telefonica ought to have had concerns that he hadnt given authority for the 
agreement, taking into account that it had been entered into using Mr Hs account  through 
which a number of purchases had been made over a long period. They also noted that Mr H 
hadnt disputed any of the agreements prior to the most recent one, which they thought 
pointed further towards Mr H having had an arrangement with a family member.
Mr H questioned how he couldve disputed any of the other agreements, having had no 
knowledge of them. He maintained that he had not entered into an arrangement for anyone 
else to enter into the agreement on his behalf, so he asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
The case has been passed to me to decide what should happen.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint is focused on the provision of a fixed sum loan agreement in 2020. Thats a 
regulated agreement and one which this service has the power to consider a complaint 
about. 
Mr H might find Ive presented the events which led to this complaint in less detail than he 
has, or that I havent addressed every point hes made. Thats simply because I dont 
consider it necessary to do so in explaining what I think a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this complaint is. My decision will focus on what I consider to be the relevant issues. I can 
assure Mr H, however, that Ive fully and carefully considered all of his submissions.
Mr H disputes that he provided authority to enter into the agreement in question, and he 
complains that Telefonica has treated him unfairly by asking him to repay sums owing in 
relation to the agreement. It's my role to determine whether Mr H consented or provided 
authority (actual or apparent) for the agreement to be entered into.
In considering what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im required 
take into account relevant law, rules, guidance, codes of practice as well as what I consider 
to have been good industry practice at the time. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I make my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
From what hes said I think that Mr H accepts that he first entered into an agreement with 
Telefonica for the purpose of acquiring a mobile phone in 2009. In bringing the complaint to 
this service he was clear in asserting that he was only disputing that he gave authority for 
the most recent agreement. 
Telefonica has shown that in subsequent years a number of agreements were entered into 
using Mr Hs account. Its also shown that those agreements were largely paid off in full and the payments were made by direct debit. Our investigator said that the direct debits were set 
up in Mr Hs name and goods delivered to his home address  and he didnt dispute that.
Telefonica referenced that in responding to his complaint, and it seems that Mr H actually 
provided Telefonica a closing statement for the agreement which was repaid in March 2020 
in support of his complaint. Our investigator also specifically highlighted to Mr H the number 
of agreements which had been entered into using his account over a number of years.
So, I think Mr H ought reasonably to have been aware of a number of agreements in his 
name. That being the case, itd be reasonable to suggest its possible and probable that hed 
entered into them himself. Particularly because Mr H asserts that as far as hes aware, no 
one else had access to his Telefonica account and that he didnt have an arrangement with 
anyone else to enter into agreements on his behalf. 
The evidence Ive been presented, however, contradicts that. For example, Telefonica has 
shown that the email address associated with the account was changed (to one which Mr H 
says he doesnt recognise) in 2012. And theres some evidence in Telefonicas records 
which suggests that Mr H said a family member had used the account.
So, I think its possible that someone other than Mr H might have had access to his account 
with Telefonica to the extent that they entered into the historic agreements referenced 
above. Significantly, if that were the case, I think its reasonable to conclude that Mr H had 
likely given that person actual or apparent authority to do so, particularly given that he ought 
reasonably to have been aware of the agreements, didnt dispute them despite being given 
reasonable opportunity, and hasnt disputed making payments towards them.
I acknowledge that Mr H subsequently suggested that he wasnt aware of all of the 
agreements that had been entered into using his account. However, I think this contradicts 
what hed previously said, and Im not persuaded its probable that he wasnt aware.
Its clear from what Mr H has said that he doesnt think he ought to be responsible for the 
most recent agreement. But given that I think its probable Mr H had given someone else 
access to his account and authorised them to enter into agreements on his behalf, Ive not 
been persuaded by the evidence provided that it wasnt the case with this particular 
agreement. 
Mr H also seems to have made payments towards the agreement for over a year before 
cancelling the direct debit, and he took a further three months or so to raise the issue with 
Telefonica. Even if I accept his raising the issue was delayed due to having been abroad, I 
find the time it took for Mr H to raise issue further suggests that there had been some kind of 
arrangement in place.
Given all of the above, I think weve been provided with evidence which points towards an 
arrangement likely having been in place whereby Mr H had allowed someone else to use his 
Telefonica account to the extent that he gave authority for them to enter into agreements to 
acquire goods. It follows that I dont think that Telefonica has treated Mr H unfairly by holding 
him responsible for the lending associated with the most recent agreement.
Lastly, I acknowledge the points Mr H has made about whether Telefonica did enough to 
ensure that hed given authority for the agreement to be entered into. Taking into account 
that the agreement was entered into online, via Mr Hs account with Telefonica, I dont think 
it ought to have had obvious concerns that Mr H hadnt authorised the application, nor do I 
think it ought to have done further checks to ensure this. 
I say this in the most part because whoever made the application wouldve had to access Mr Hs account using the correct log in details, and there had been a history of agreements 
having been taken out in Mr Hs name and successfully repaid. The goods were also sent to 
Mr Hs home address. I dont think thats indicative of a potential fraud, and it follows that I 
dont think Telefonica ought to have done more to check that at the outset.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman