DRN-2887431
The complaint
Mr K complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Vision Independent 
Financial Planning Ltd (Vision) to transfer his pension plan into a new self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). Mr K thinks the fund was too small to be invested into a SIPP and that he 
should have been advised to take out an enhanced annuity instead, based on his medical 
history. 
What happened
In 2012 Mr K invested his pension funds into a retirement plan which paid him a guaranteed 
income. In August 2013 he was thinking of partially retiring and approached Vision to 
discuss his options  particularly around increasing his retirement income to make up for his 
potentially reduced salary. He agreed to invoke the freedom clause he had within his 
existing plan which allowed him to transfer away without penalty if he qualified for an 
enhanced annuity. Mr K then met with an adviser from Vision and agreed to a 
recommendation to transfer the benefits to a new SIPP. The transfer value was £62,287.98 
and was paid to the new SIPP around 30 October 2013. The funds were then administered 
by a Discretionary Investment Manager (DIM)  although an instruction was given on the 
application form that Mr K wanted to remain invested within the total return fund. 
In 2016 Mr K met with a new adviser from Vision for a review meeting. Another review 
meeting was conducted two years later which established that Mr Ks attitude to risk (ATR) 
and circumstances were unchanged. 
  
In July 2019 Mr K complained to the SIPP provider about the advice hed previously 
received, and the complaint was passed to Vision. Mr K said the SIPP didnt meet his 
requirements and he should have been advised to take an annuity because of the size of the 
fund  which he thought was too small to be invested into a SIPP. He said hed been 
advised that his funds would be exhausted in a further nine years and he wanted 
compensation for any losses hed suffered against more suitable advice.
Vision said that it didnt think its advice had been unsuitable and met Mr Ks objectives at 
that time  which were to give him potential for investment and for greater income. It said 
this investment was made in line with his cautious ATR. Vision didnt think Mr Ks assertion 
that he should have been advised to take out an annuity was consistent with his need for a 
greater income.
 
It also said that Mr Ks investment had been well above the minimum amount required for 
the SIPP and its charges had been discounted in Mr Ks case. It thought this supported its 
view that the recommendation to transfer had been suitable. It also suggested that  at 
Mr Ks next review  he should discuss the erosion of the SIPP fund to see if he should reset 
his level of withdrawals when compared to his outgoings.
But Mr K was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us where he 
explained his concerns.
He thought a SIPP was more appropriate to a higher risk investor than himself. 
The recording of his health had been inconsistent, particularly in 2013 when Visions 
suitability report said that he was generally in good health although hed previously 
been diagnosed as being diabetic.
He thought an enhanced annuity might have been a better alternative for him.
The costs associated with the SIPP appeared to be excessive, especially as they 
were invested within a DIM as well, which gave another layer of charges. 
He didnt receive an annual review between 2016 and 2018. 
He wasnt an experienced investor, so he was unsure if the professional advice hed 
received was in his best interests.
One of our investigators looked into matter and said this was a complaint we should uphold. 
He thought that the previous provider allowed Mr K to switch from its contract because he 
confirmed he was eligible for an enhanced annuity. And Vision had recorded that Mr K had 
health issues within its fact find document from 2013. So he thought Vision should have 
advised Mr K to have taken out an enhanced annuity. He said Vision should calculate any 
past loss suffered as a result of the advice, and then calculate the capital equivalent cost of 
providing a joint life enhanced annuity and pay this to Mr K as a lump sum.  
Vision didnt agree. It made the following points in response:
It didnt think the 2008 regulators report about pension switching that the investigator 
had cited as a reason for his conclusion, covered a transfer from a fixed income 
annuity to a personal pension. It thought that would be an unfair comparison. 
The previous provider couldnt have explored the application made to switch from its 
contract fully, as Mr Ks statement wasnt based on any underwriting information or 
medical facts  simply a statement that he qualified for enhanced annuity rates. 
There was no record of Mr K suffering from diabetes at the time of its advice. Far 
more detailed information was required to establish his eligibility for an enhanced 
annuity.
At the review meetings in 2016 and 2018 Mr K suggested that his underlying health 
was good. 
Mr K signed to accept that his ATR was cautious. 
Mr K hadnt expressed any concerns with his plan in the previous seven years. It 
thought there was a strong possibility that his complaint had now been made 
because of the downturn in the stock market and consequential performance of his 
investments. Vision said he could have asked to change his investment objectives at 
any time or sought advice elsewhere.
This SIPP wasnt expensive when compared to other options. The charges had been 
discounted and the fund that was used had reasonable charges as well.
It hadnt seen any evidence that Mr Ks objective was originally described as safe 
increased income. It thought such a description was retrospective.
It had previously assessed the suitability of this advice both in 2013 and in 2016 
through an external compliance consultant.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind and made the following points in 
reply:
There were a number of indicators from the documents hed seen that suggested 
Vision ought to have explored the option of an enhanced annuity.
Mr K was a type 1 diabetic  which requires him to take insulin daily. Having been 
diagnosed in 1977 it was unlikely he would have failed to disclose this information at 
some point.
Mr Ks later declarations that his health hadnt changed was probably because he 
assumed hed already disclosed his medical history. He hadnt based his view simply on the telephone conversation hed had with Mr K. 
He had given more weight to the point of sale documentation hed seen. 
The charges applied to the SIPP limited the potential growth of the plan.
Mr Ks objectives, as set out by the 2013 fact find, showed that an enhanced annuity 
would have been a better option for him. 
Vision said that it believed Mr K ought to have disclosed the diagnosis of diabetes to his 
adviser at some point since 2013. The references to health in its fact find suggested that 
Vision had taken that into consideration. It also reiterated that the adviser was entitled to rely 
on the information Mr K had provided previously and had concluded simply that Mr K could 
still receive the same level of income outside of his existing plan in 2013 because of his 
medical situation. It asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so it was 
passed to me to review.
Mr K also wanted to make the following points in response to Visions reply. He said that:
The previous provider accepted his application on an enhanced annuity basis.
He has made Vision aware of his diabetic diagnosis on many occasions over the 
years. 
He has constantly questioned the SIPPs charges and funds he was invested in, but 
Vision has never provided any options or alternatives.
It was when he took further advice elsewhere that he became aware that Visions 
advice might not have been suitable.
I understood Mr K had most recently been drawing an income of £424.35 per month from the 
SIPP, and at the time of his complaint the total withdrawals from the plan amounted to 
£28,662.14.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said that Mr Ks complaint should be upheld in line with the 
investigators assessment  but I set out a different redress formula for Vision to follow. I 
made the following points in support of my provisional findings:
The transfer to a SIPP has given Mr K the benefit of a higher level of income.
But there were other options available to Mr K when he met with Vision to discuss his 
semi retirement plans.
The only reason Mr K was allowed to transfer from his existing pension plan was if he 
became eligible for an enhanced annuity. So it wasnt clear why Vision didnt provide 
a comparative analysis for all the available options  including an enhanced annuity. 
Mr Ks main objective was to increase his overall income which may have been 
possible from an enhanced annuity and which might have provided future guarantees 
as well. So I thought Vision should have provided that comparison.
Mr K had already explained that he wasnt familiar with any of the products 
mentioned, so he would most likely have chosen the option that satisfied his income 
and possible guarantee requirements. Without being presented with all the possible 
alternatives he wouldnt have been able to make an informed choice about what to 
do.
Mr K was recorded as a cautious investor so it was unlikely with a limited investment 
horizon and higher charges that the SIPP could provide a higher income and 
investment growth without potentially depleting the fund. With the various risks 
involved it would seem reasonable that Mr K should have been provided with an 
illustration for an enhanced annuity to ensure he was presented with all the relevant 
information needed to make his choice.I though there were inconsistencies in the way in which Vision recorded Mr Ks health 
and medical history. But the very reason that Mr K was able to transfer from his 
existing plan was because he was eligible for an enhanced annuity so, given the 
evidence Id seen about his health, a suitable course of action would have been to 
explore retirement options around his medical history.
Vision had recorded that Mr K had some health issues in its fact find from 2013  and 
I thought it was unlikely that Mr K would have disclosed some health issues but not 
his diabetes. So it was unclear why Vision wouldnt have explored the enhanced 
annuity avenue in any case.
But, regardless, eligibility for an enhanced annuity was the only way Mr K could have 
transferred. I thought Vision would have been aware of that and recommended an 
enhanced annuity, but even if it wasnt, I thought it should have found about it before 
making a recommendation. 
Vision had said that it wasnt obliged to recommend an enhanced annuity and that it 
was entitled to recommend a SIPP, which I accepted. But I felt it still had a 
responsibility to make the most suitable recommendation at the time. 
Although a potentially higher income for Mr K might have seemed appealing, and I 
could understand why he would use that facility, the option of an enhanced annuity  
with the guarantees that applied, would have most likely been favoured by Mr K 
given his circumstances. 
Mr Ks concern in 2013 would suggest that long term provision of his retirement 
income to supplement his salary was his main ambition.
I set out the redress calculation Vision needed to carry out which involved 
establishing an appropriate enhanced annuity that Mr K would have qualified for and 
comparing against the value of the SIPP. I also said Vision should pay Mr K £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience caused to his retirement planning. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr K accepted my provisional decision, but Vision responded with the following points:
It wasnt able to support the statement Id made that Mr Ks previous pension 
provider accepted his application on an enhanced annuity basis. 
It had no records to show that Mr K had ever made it aware of his diabetes 
diagnosis. Nor was the adviser aware of being told about such a medical condition. 
Its records show that Mr K said he was happy with the performance of his SIPP and 
the income he received  so there was nothing to suggest he had frequently 
challenged the funds he was invested in and the SIPPs charges.
An external compliance consultant had checked the advice and concluded it was 
probably suitable.
It thought that it would be advisable for Mr K to obtain an up to date medical report 
from his GP so that we could compare his current medical condition with that from 
the date of its advice. Especially as diabetes can reduce life expectancy but 
medication can dramatically improve it. 
If the redress formula remains the same in a final decision Vision would like us to 
confirm if it has to process our instruction and redress as an execution only 
instruction. 
It is unclear whether Mr K will retain Vision services following a final decision as he 
has already declined the opportunity of a pension review.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so and after careful consideration of Visions further submissions, I see no 
reason to depart from my provisional findings.  
Vision has questioned Mr Ks medical history and says it was never advised that he had 
diabetes and the adviser didnt record this within the fact find because it hadnt been 
disclosed to him either. As I said in my provisional decision there were inconsistencies in the 
way Vision recorded Mr Ks health situation. It had said he was in good health but had also 
said he had some health issues  which meant he was paying additional charges for a gtee 
(sic) income which he would comfortably obtain with his medical info. So I dont think 
Visions position was clear here, as even if it wasnt aware that Mr K had diabetes, it seemed 
to know that he had some medical conditions which might mean he could receive a higher 
income.
So I think Vision ought to have looked further into the possibility of an enhanced annuity, as 
it seemed as though it might be appropriate to recommend it to Mr K and it might have 
provided the higher income he was seeking along with a guaranteed income for life. But in 
any case, Vision either was aware, or should have been aware, that the only way Mr K could 
transfer from his existing plan was because he was, or had, become eligible for an enhanced 
annuity. So regardless of what it knew about his medical history I think Vision was obliged to 
investigate the option of an enhanced annuity at that time because it was the very reason for 
recommending a transfer from his plan.
Vision has queried whether we should ask Mr K for an updated position regarding his 
medical condition and medication as they might affect his life expectancy and therefore the 
annuity he might qualify for. But I dont think theres any basis on which to make further 
investigations prior to carrying out the redress calculation. All of the information I said Vision 
should obtain in order to determine the position Mr K ought to be in now were based on his 
state of health at the time of the transfer to the SIPP  which is the annuity that he would 
have qualified for at that time  so I think Vision should be able to obtain the information as 
previously set out. 
Its not entirely clear what Vision is asking regarding processing our instructions as 
execution only. But I think our position is clear in the redress formula Ive set out and how 
compensation should be paid if it transpires that Mr K would have benefited from an 
enhanced annuity. If Vision is simply asking whether it should give Mr K advice around the 
enhanced annuity, then its correct in assuming it should work out the redress and pay it 
according to our instruction. 
If Vision requires any information from the current provider and needs Mr K to request that 
information, it should ask him to complete a letter of authority as necessary. I say that 
because Vision is unclear if Mr K has retained it as his adviser and so may not be able to 
obtain the information. Its for Mr K to advise Vision if he wishes to continue with their 
existing relationship. 
Vision has stated that its transfer advice had been checked externally and found to be 
probably suitable and it also said that Mr K had seemed to be happy with both the SIPPs 
performance and the income he derived from it. 
But ultimately Mr Ks existing plan only allowed a transfer on the basis that he was eligible 
for an enhanced annuity. And, from the evidence Ive seen, Vision seemed to be aware that 
Mr K did have some medical issues which would probably increase his retirement income. 
So I think it should, at the very least, have explored the option of an enhanced annuity further and given Mr K the information he needed to decide whether it was a suitable option 
for him. Looking at Mr Ks reasons for meeting with Vision I think he wanted to know how to 
increase his retirement income to replace the salary he would lose by partially retiring, but 
with the ability to retain some guarantee on his income longer term. I think it was likely he 
would have been attracted by that opportunity within an enhanced annuity if he had been 
provided with the necessary information to make an informed choice.  I think this option 
would have been more attractive to Mr K than the option recommended to him, which would 
more likely deplete his funds if he drew the maximum income available.
Given Mr K was a cautious investor it was unlikely the returns necessary within the SIPP 
would have been achieved based on his risk profile and the funds that could be invested in. I 
think Mr K should have been recommended to take out an enhanced annuity and I believe 
he would have accepted that advice if hed been offered it. 
 Putting things right
My aim is that Mr K should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr K would have invested differently, by way of an enhanced annuity, so 
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr K's circumstances 
and objectives when he invested. 
Vision should undertake the following calculation to determine what redress, if any, should 
be paid. Mr K should be aware that if the calculation shows he has made a financial gain as 
a result of Visions advice, no redress will be payable. 
What should Vision do?
With suitable advice, Mr K would have purchased an enhanced annuity on the day his SIPP 
was arranged. I think the annuity that would have been arranged would have been on a joint 
life, level, no guarantee, monthly in arrears basis as Mr K has said that it was important for 
him to provide a benefit to his wife in the event of his death. Vision should therefore 
undertake the following:
1. Obtain from Mr K a completed enhanced annuity questionnaire, with the questions 
answered on the basis of Mr Ks state of health (and any other applicable lifestyle conditions) 
at the time of the transfer to the SIPP
2. Obtain confirmation from at least three reputable enhanced annuity providers as to 
whether Mr K would have qualified for an enhanced annuity at the time of the transfer, on the 
basis of that questionnaire and the value of his fund as at that date. 
3. Provide Mr K with a copy of the written responses from those providers. 
4. If Mr K could have qualified for an enhanced annuity, obtain confirmation of the best 
enhanced annuity that would have been offered, on the same basis as that which Ive 
outlined above  joint life, level, no guarantee and monthly in arrears.
5. If the current cost of establishing the enhanced annuity in (4) is higher than the remaining 
fund value in Mr Ks SIPP, Vision should set up an annuity for Mr K using that fund value, but 
paying any top up amount required to achieve this. Alternatively, it may pay Mr K the sum 
required to establish the enhanced annuity. 6. If Mr K has received higher payments from the drawdown arrangement than would have 
been payable from the enhanced annuity, the overall difference may be deducted from any 
loss identified in (5) above and a lower enhanced annuity established with that reduced 
capital sum, or reduced payment made to Mr K accordingly.
6. But if Mr K would have received higher payments from the enhanced annuity than he has 
drawn down from his SIPP, Vision should pay Mr K all backdated income missed between 
the date of transfer into the SIPP and the date the new annuity is set up (or payment is made 
to Mr K) as a lump sum, together with interest at the rate of 8% simple interest per year on 
each missed amount from the date it should have been paid to the date of settlement. 
I also think that Mr K will have been caused a not inconsiderable amount of worry on the 
basis that his pension funds may not last through his retirement. As such, Vision should also 
pay to Mr K £250 for the disruption caused to his retirement planning.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Vision deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr K how much has been taken off. Vision should give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
 My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I uphold Mr Ks complaint against Vision Independent 
Financial Planning Ltd. 
Vision should pay compensation in line with the formula that Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman