DRN-3576560
The complaint
K, a limited company, complains that Lloyds Bank PLC returned a payment and closed its 
account.
What happened
K says that Lloyds blocked its account, returned money it received from a business contract, 
and didnt discuss with it what happened during a review. The account was then closed. K 
wants compensation for loss of business and any fraud markers removed.
Lloyds said that it hadnt made a mistake in closing the account. And in its final response 
stated that when an account is reviewed we do not necessarily contact customers. It 
apologised for the service K received when it tried to discuss what happened and offered to 
pay K £50.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. A payment of £10,000 had 
come into the account from a business that had a connection to K. The source of the money 
to that business had been reported as fraudulent and the payment on to K had come right 
after receipt. We were only looking here at what happened to K. And Lloyds restricted Ks 
account and then decided that it was going to close it.  Lloyds had acted in line with the 
terms and conditions. The money was returned to the original source. Shed asked K for any 
information about contact with the sender of the money. The director of K said that this was 
mostly by calls but didnt provide any evidence. No fraud marker had been added.
K didnt agree. Lloyds didnt ask for proof of entitlement at the time. The money was moved 
from the other business to K because the director said it was hers. There was no fraud on 
either account. The person that made the allegations received a shipment and then said that 
this hadnt been received. K no longer wants the account but to have the money back with 
compensation for what happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
K has stated that this money related to a sizeable order and that it formed part of a deposit 
for goods due to be delivered seven days later. It says that the fraud was reported by the 
person sending the money the morning after the payment was made. But it says that the 
goods were delivered and so there has been a total loss of some £45,000 of merchandise. It 
couldnt get another account for two months and it says lost £250,000 a day of business.
I appreciate that Lloyds didnt ask K for information at the time. But I havent seen anything 
to show that K was entitled to its part of the money or that the original money was obtained 
legitimately. I take into account that K is a separate legal entity and while connected to the 
other business through its director would still have to account for its activities and keep 
records. As our investigator says this service is only looking at a complaint from K about 
Lloyds. 
The return of the money wouldnt stop K or the other business pursuing the person that 
reported the fraud, if as the director says it had been the victim here. Ive seen no evidence 
of that. And while K has made adverse comments about the character of that person and 
referred to communications about this money, there is nothing to support this. I think 
generally that K has had a reasonable opportunity to provide any evidence to this service in 
the time since it referred its complaint.
K was fairly subject to the terms and conditions of its account with Lloyds. These set out that 
Lloyds can restrict and or close an account immediately under certain conditions. Im 
satisfied that Lloyds acted in line with those terms and conditions here. It has told this 
service that it hadnt added a marker about K to CIFAS, the national fraud database.
So, Im afraid I wont be asking Lloyds to do anything further than to pay K the compensation 
of £50 for the poor service after it was contacted by K. I appreciate what a disappointment 
this will be for the director of K given what shes said about her personal circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Lloyds Bank PLC need do 
no more than it has already offered to do, and which is to pay K £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman