DRN-2901971
The complaint
Miss B has complained that TSB Bank plc has declined to reimburse her for fees she 
incurred when attempting to arrange a lease extension.
What happened
The events leading up to the complaint have been detailed in correspondence between 
Miss B and TSB, so I wont repeat everything here. There are two reasons for this. 
First, TSB has already agreed to pay compensation, for errors made, so I dont need to 
decide whether or not the bank is at fault  only how much compensation should be paid for 
the errors it made. Secondly, our decisions are published, so its important that I dont reveal 
any information that might lead to Miss B being identified. Instead I will summarise briefly in 
my own words what happened.
Miss B purchased a leasehold property with the assistance of a mortgage from TSB. In 2018 
Miss B contacted TSB about extending the lease. TSB doesnt dispute that Miss B was given 
incorrect information about the process to be followed for this. She was left with the 
impression that the cost of the lease extension  approximately £32,000  would be added 
to the mortgage. 
It wasnt until May 2020 that Miss B was told that shed need to apply for a further advance 
to secure the funds. Unfortunately, her application was declined twice, in May and June 
2020.
Miss B complained to TSB. She said shed made it clear from the outset in 2018 that her 
credit wasnt good but says she was told this wouldnt be an issue as a credit search 
wouldnt be necessary. 
TSB acknowledged that, if Miss B had been given the correct information at the start, she 
wouldnt have started the lease extension process without having first made the application 
for a further advance. But, believing the funds would be available, Miss B incurred surveyors 
and solicitors fees.
Initially TSB paid Miss B compensation of £250, to cover her call costs and for distress and 
inconvenience. TSB also invited Miss B to supply itemised bills of her other costs. After 
these were provided, TSB also reimbursed £6,153 that Miss B had paid out.
Miss B didnt think this was enough and contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service. An 
investigator looked at the complaint, but was satisfied TSB had done enough to put things 
right. He wasnt persuaded that, even if TSB had told her in 2018 that shed have needed a 
further advance that shed have met the criteria for it.
Miss B disagreed, and has made some further points, as follows:
the cost of extending the lease will now be significantly higher than it was in 2018;
it is unfair for the investigator to ask her to prove how she could have raised the funds 
herself in 2018;
she approached a second charge lender in 2020 and was told shed have qualified for a 
loan pre-Covid, but doesnt qualify for it now;
her grandmother could have lent her the money after she sold her property;
her business accounts show she made a £20,000 profit in 2019/2020;
she is a joint owner of another property which she could have sold or re-mortgaged to 
raise funds.
Miss B also said there was an additional £1,125 invoice outstanding to her solicitors which 
she wants TSB to pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has accepted it made an error in not telling Miss B she needed to apply for a further 
advance in 2018. Because of this, I dont need to decide whether the bank is at fault. The 
only issue I need to determine is whether the compensation already paid is fair and 
reasonable, or whether TSB should pay any further compensation.
Overall, the evidence doesnt persuade me that Miss B would have been approved for a 
further advance in 2018, even if shed been told about it. Miss B tells us she had alternate 
sources of funds, but she has also told us that her credit was bad and that TSB knew about 
this. On balance, Im not persuaded Miss B would have been in a position to proceed with 
the lease extension in 2018.
Ive looked at the itemised bills showing the costs reimbursed to Miss B. Im satisfied these 
cover the costs incurred by her for the abortive lease extension application. Im not 
persuaded it would be fair to ask TSB to cover any additional costs for future or contingent 
expenses. Im satisfied TSB reimbursed Miss Bs legal costs for work done at the time, so I 
dont think the additional invoice Miss B has now provided should be paid by the bank.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the £6,153 reimbursed by TSB for Miss Bs expenses 
plus £250 for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable and so Im not ordering the 
bank to pay anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman