DRN-1764124
The complaint
Mr H complains that CIS General Insurance Limited mishandled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H had a motor insurance policy under which CIS was responsible for dealing with claims.
On 9 September 2019, Mr Hs vehicle and a third partys came into contact on a roundabout. 
CIS made a decision to record liability as split 50/50 between Mr H and the third party. Mr H 
complained about that decision.
On 14 November 2019 CIS sent a final response saying that as both parties had been in the 
wrong lane, it wouldnt change its decision. Unhappy with that, Mr H asked us to review his 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think that 
shed found any evidence that CIS hadn't considered. She said CIS had fairly and 
reasonably reached the split 50/50 liability decision.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
He cannot think he was in the wrong lane.
He has been driving nearly 40 years and never caused an accident.
The third party didnt respond to the insurance company.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how to deal with 
a claim involving a third party. Mr Hs policy with CIS contained the following term:
"The insurer is entitled under this policy to;
Take over and conduct the defence and settlement of any claim in your name"
The effect of that term is that the insurers view of liability prevails over Mr Hs view. But I will 
consider whether CIS has applied that term fairly in his case.
Unlike a court, we dont hear evidence from both parties who were involved in the accident 
and decide who is liable for causing damage or injury.
Mr H reported that he was in the left lane passing an exit when the third party on his right cut 
across towards that exit and hit the right-hand side of Mr Hs car. Mr H provided a diagram. 
If Mr Hs version of events and his diagram are correct, and there were no road markings 
telling him to keep right, then he was in the correct lane.
However, the third party provided a statement and a diagram that said that Mr H had exited 
from the car wash.
So there were differing versions of events, even on the issue of where Mr H joined the 
roundabout.
As it happened, the third party was also insured with CIS. CIS refers to this as intra-
insurance. So colleagues at CIS dealt with respectively Mr H and the third party. 
Ive considered how CIS dealt with Mr H.
Im satisfied that it took into account his statement and his diagram. It also looked at an 
online map of the roundabout.
CIS also considered Mr Hs supermarket receipt from a few minutes before the accident. 
CIS took into account the location and nature of the damage to each vehicle. It noted the 
photographs taken immediately after the accident.
CIS noted that there were no independent witnesses or CCTV.
So Im satisfied that CIS did a reasonable and proportionate investigation. 
CIS hasnt supported its comment that both vehicles were in the wrong lane.
Nevertheless, with the differing versions of events, I dont consider it was unreasonable for 
CIS to decide to treat liability as 50/50. I dont consider that this decision treated Mr H 
unfairly. I accept that this may cost him money in future insurance premiums.
Overall I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct CIS to change its record of the claim or to 
do anything further in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct CIS General Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman