DRN-1690111
 
The complaint
Mrs N has complained about Assurant General Insurance Limited. Shes not happy that it 
turned down a claim under her mobile phone insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs N had her mobile phone stolen from the staff room at the nail shop where she works. 
Mrs N had allowed a customer and her child to use the toilet in the shop and believes the 
theft took place during this time. Assurant declined the claim on the basis that she hadnt 
taken enough care of her mobile phone in line with the terms and conditions of her policy. As 
Mrs N wasnt happy about this she complained to Assurant and then this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs N and initially he didnt uphold the complaint, 
agreeing that Mrs N shouldve taken better care of her mobile phone. Mrs N didnt agree with 
the outcome and provided further information including a video of the layout of the nail shop. 
Our investigator was persuaded by the new information and subsequently said the complaint 
should be upheld and he asked Assurant to settle the claim.
As Assurant didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I agree the complaint 
should be upheld, Ill explain why.
Mrs N kept her mobile phone in a bag in the staff room, the room did have a lock but it didnt 
work. Assurant say the bag was visible from the toilet area when the door to the staff room 
was open. Indeed when Mrs N made the claim she confirmed the door was left open. But 
Mrs N later told our investigator that she had confused the word visible with the word 
invisible when shed been asked about the circumstances surrounding the claim. She later 
clarified that the door had in fact been closed and a language barrier had led to the 
confusion. What she meant to say was that the lock on the door was broken as opposed to 
the door being left open.
The main issue to consider with this case is whether Mrs N took enough care to keep her 
phone in a safe and secure place. And I think she did.
The video provided by Mrs N has proved useful in terms of having a visual image of the 
scene of the theft. Having reviewed the video Mrs N provided of the layout of the shop Im of 
the opinion that she did take reasonable care of her phone. The video shows that the 
staffroom was a reasonable distance away from the toilets. And a thief would have to take a 
deliberate risk to go down the corridor and look inside the staffroom to take the phone. 
Indeed, even if the door was open the thief would still have had to go down the shop corridor (which was clearly not for public use) and put their head inside the staffroom to see Mrs Ns 
bag. 
So Im satisfied the staff room was far enough away from the area where customers were 
permitted to be for Mrs N to reasonably consider it safe. The room her phone, bag and 
belongings were kept in was off limits to customers (clearly marked as a staffroom) and I 
think she left her belongings there as she thought it was safe.
The terms and conditions of the policy say taking care of your device means not knowingly 
leaving your device somewhere it is likely to be lost, stolen or damaged - somewhere you 
wouldnt leave a purse or wallet. Mrs N left her phone in her bag which also contained her 
purse. Assurant say ideally mobile phones should be locked away, but if thats not possible 
they should be out of sight and Im satisfied from the video footage that it was. 
I say this as Mrs N left her bag containing her mobile phone in a staffroom she which she 
clearly thought was safe and that her things were out of sight. I know Assurant believe that 
the staffroom door was left open and that Mrs N said her phone was visible. But Im satisfied 
that some of the reporting of the incident was lost in translation as English isnt Mrs Ns first 
language. In fact when her complaint was first set up with this service, we looked to clarify 
things in writing given the slight language barrier as opposed to just relying on her phone 
call. And it is clear that Assurant did get a few things wrong, even believing that Mrs N had 
her daughter with her at work at one stage. As opposed to understanding what really 
happened  that the thief had their daughter with them who they used as part of the 
distraction theft.
It was unfortunate that the mobile phone was stolen from a staff room, an area that Mrs N 
reasonably thought was safe. And I do think Mrs N could have taken further security 
measures to ensure the safety of her mobile phone; but overall, Im of the opinion that Mrs N 
met the criteria set out in the terms and conditions of her policy for keeping her phone safe.
So, I think the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
for Assurant to settle the claim. Ive not made any award of compensation as I can 
understand why Assurant turned the claim down but given the additional evidence and 
clarification provided, Im satisfied that the claim should be upheld.
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant 
General Insurance Limited to pay the claim for Mrs Ns stolen mobile phone under her 
mobile phone insurance policy. And if Mrs N has purchased a new phone already to pay her 
the market value or equivalent of her phone.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman