DRN-3639826
The complaint
Mr L complains about a car supplied under a hire agreement provided by Ald Automotive 
Limited.
What happened
In February 2021 Mr L acquired a new car under a hire agreement with Ald. The agreement 
was taken over 36 months with monthly payments of £217.54.
In March 2022 the car broke down and needed to be recovered. At this point the car had 
covered around 12,000 miles. It was taken to a manufacturers garage who after 
investigating said that the clutch and flywheel needed to be replaced. The garage quoted 
Mr L £2,075.70 to repair the car.
Mr L was unhappy with this and complained to Ald as well as making our service aware of 
the issue. Ald then issued a final response and said it wasnt upholding the complaint. It said 
the garage thought the fault was down to how Mr L had driven the car.
Our investigator issued an opinion and upheld the complaint. He said, in summary, that he 
hadnt seen any evidence the fault was due to Mr Ls driving style. And he thought the car 
wasnt reasonably durable when it was supplied. 
Our investigator said Ald should arrange for the car to be repaired at no cost to Mr L. He said 
Mr L should get back the monthly repayments from the time he couldnt use the car. And he 
said Ald should pay Mr L £300 to reflect what happened. 
Ald disagreed. It said any repairs are Mr Ls responsibility. And it said the garage confirmed 
the issues were due to driving style. 
Mr L got in touch and said hed got many years of driving experience and had been 
rewarded by a separate business for his use of other hire cars.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr L complains about a car supplied under a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit 
contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ls complaint 
about Ald.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Ald here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description.
The car Mr L acquired was brand new. So, I think a reasonable person would expect it to be 
free from even very minor faults, and would expect trouble free motoring for a significant 
time.
What I need to consider here is whether the car was of satisfactory quality or not when it was 
supplied to Mr L.
It isnt in dispute here that the car developed a fault where the clutch failed, and Ive seen an 
estimate from March 2022 for its repair. 
Ive carefully considered this. The clutch failed not far past a year after Mr L got the car. And 
it had covered around 12,000 miles. Im satisfied a reasonable person would expect a clutch 
to last much longer than this. Thinking about this, it seems the clutch wasnt durable.
The crux of this complaint is that the garage and Ald say this issue was caused by Mr Ls 
driving style. Ive very carefully thought about this. But, Ive seen very little evidence to back 
this claim up. The only reasoning I can see for this opinion is that there wasnt any other 
damage to the car when it was inspected.
Mr L has pointed out before getting this car he had a previous lease with another 
manufacturer and said the car didnt have any mechanical issues for over three years. And 
hes told us he has many years of driving experience and has never caused a clutch to fail.
Thinking about everything here, I havent seen enough to persuade me that the clutch failed 
due to Mr Ls driving style. It follows Im satisfied the car wasnt reasonably durable when it 
was supplied. And Im satisfied this means it was not of satisfactory quality.
So, I need to consider what would be reasonable to put things right for Mr L.
Ald say it isnt responsible for any repairs. But I disagree here. The CRA explains Mr L has a 
right for the car to be repaired  and as the supplier of the car this is Alds responsibility. So, 
it should arrange for this to be done at no cost to Mr L.
Mr L also hasnt had use of the car since 28 March 2022. I dont think its reasonable hes 
been paying for a car he cant use. So, Ald should reimburse all of Mr Ls repayments from 
this point until the car is repaired. 
I also think Mr L has suffered distress and inconvenience here. Hes been without a car for 
some time. And it must have been upsetting for the car to fail at the point it did. I agree with 
our investigator that £300 is fair and reasonable to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Ald Automotive Limited to put 
things right by doing the following:
Arrange for the car to be repaired as soon as possible at no cost to Mr L
Reimburse all payments under the agreement from 28 March 2022 until the car is 
repaired*Pay Mr L £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse information about the account from 28 March 2022 from Mr Ls 
credit file
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Ald considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman