DRN-2670160
The complaint
Mr M complains about the maturity value of his mortgage endowment policy, provided by 
Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich). He says Zurich misled him about this.
What happened
Mr M held a mortgage endowment policy with Zurich, which matured in late 2020. Hes 
unhappy with the amount he received at the end of the term. He says Zurich had told him in 
early 2020 that the value wouldnt drop, or was unlikely to drop. But the value then fell by 
around £3,000. He thinks its inequitable that the policy declined so much over a short 
period, and that Zurich should have done more to protect the value of the policy. 
Zurich said the final value had been calculated correctly  and that Mr M had been told the 
earlier valuations werent guaranteed. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
explained that, as an investment product, there was risk involved. On balance, he wasnt 
persuaded that Zurich had misled Mr M or been negligent in how it managed the policy. 
Mr M has now referred his case to an ombudsman. He says he placed more weight on what 
he was told verbally during two calls than the subsequent written warning he received. And 
that the investigator gave Zurich, rather than him, the benefit of the doubt. He thinks Zurich 
fell short of its due diligence by allowing the value to drop in its final months. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I appreciate how disappointing it was for Mr M that the value of the policy fell in the run up to 
maturity. But when the financial markets are impacted adversely by an event, policy values 
will also be affected. This is all part and parcel of having an investment. Unfortunately, the 
impact of the pandemic caused the financial markets to fall in 2020. Whilst Mr M says Zurich 
should have done more to protect the value of the policy in the final months, the very fact it 
was near the end of the term meant there was less opportunity to mitigate or offset the 
impact of the downturn. I think the fall in value is attributable to a factor outside Zurichs 
control, which affected lots of investments in a similar way, rather than errors on its part. Im 
not persuaded it was negligent in how it managed the policy. 
Mr M says he was told over the phone that the policy wasnt subject to market forces and 
wouldnt (or was unlikely to) drop in value. But as explained above, the policy was an 
investment so there was always an element of risk. I dont have the phone calls Mr M has 
referred to, so I cant listen to exactly what was said. I must therefore use the information 
that is available  including his recollections of the calls  to decide whats more likely to 
have happened. 
It may help to explain that, if I find (on balance) that Mr M was given misleading information 
during the calls, our approach would be to put him in the position he would be in had the 
correct information been provided. It wouldnt be to put him in the position of the incorrect 
information being right. So even if Zurich misled him or was unclear during the calls, that 
wouldnt generally mean its liable to pay out the incorrect value. 
Mr M says weve giving Zurich the benefit of the doubt regarding the calls. But our role is to 
impartially decide cases on the balance of probabilities. And as the person raising the 
allegation, there is some expectation on him to demonstrate that its more likely than not that 
Zurich misled him. Regardless of what was discussed, Ive seen that Zurich sent him written 
information around the time of the calls confirming that the value could fluctuate. This is 
consistent with the other information Ive seen about the policy, which was after all an 
investment. Overall, I cant safely conclude that Zurich misled Mr M. 
In conclusion, I havent found that Mr M has lost out due to errors by Zurich. On balance, it 
seems that the policy was managed as it should have been and that Zurich made the risk 
clear in the run-up to maturity. It was just unfortunate that the policy matured around the time 
of a market downturn, which affected its value. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman