DRN-3236228
The complaint
Miss L complains TSB Bank Plc has unfairly recorded late payments and a default on her 
credit file relating to her credit card.
What happened
In June 2020, Miss L entered into a six-month repayment plan with TSB relating to her credit 
card. In October 2020, she missed a payment due to being unwell. This payment wasnt 
made at a later date, but Miss L did make her final payment of the six-month plan in 
November 2020. As a payment had been missed, TSB considered this repayment plan to 
have failed. 
In December 2020 a further repayment plan was entered, but TSB said Miss L had made 
first payment, due on 27 December, late, so a default notice was issued in January 2021 for 
the arrears on the account. The account was later passed onto a debt recovery team in 
March 2021.
Miss L complained that TSB has passed on the debt. She said a default shouldnt have been 
recorded against her as shed been continuing to pay the £70 per month previously agreed. 
TSB didnt accept it had done anything wrong. It said it had contacted Miss L about her late 
payment in December 2020, but she hadnt got in touch. And it said she hadnt responded to 
the default notice requesting payment of around £490 by the start of February 2021, so it 
was right to register the default. It noted shed continued to pay £70 per month, but said as 
the payment plan had failed due to a late payment, Miss L needed to repay the arrears or 
contact TSB.
Unhappy with its response, Miss L brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator 
initially thought TSB had acted unfairly in issuing the default, but after receiving further 
information from TSB, our investigator changed her mind. Whilst she noted Miss L had 
provided her bank statement showing she made the payment to TSB on 27 December, she 
was satisfied it wasnt received by TSB until 29 December, so it was late. And as this meant 
two repayment plans had failed, she didnt think TSB had acted unreasonably in issuing the 
default notice. 
Miss L didnt agree with our investigators opinion, so the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB issued its final response letter on this complaint in June 2021. Im aware that since 
then, Miss L has raised further concerns with TSB. But only events covered in TSBs final 
response letter will be considered in this decision. Any complaint about issues after        
June 2021 would need to be first raised with TSB before a complaint could be brought to our 
service.
It seems Miss L accepts she missed a payment in October 2021. From what I can see, she 
contacted TSB on 3 November 2020 to ask if her account could be frozen due to her being 
unwell, but I cant see TSB agreed to this. So Im satisfied this payment plan wasnt met. 
When the next payment plan was set up in December 2020, payments were due to be 
received on the 27th of the month. Ive seen Miss Ls bank statement, this shows a payment 
was made on 27 December. She says this should have been received on the same day. 
However, it seems likely to me that the Christmas bank holiday period meant the payment 
was delayed, and TSB has shown it wasnt received into her credit card account until two 
days later. TSBs repayment plan letter of 5 December says:
we need to receive your payment on or before the above date, so please allow 
enough time for the payment to reach your account. 
So Im satisfied TSB made Miss L aware of the importance of the money being received in 
time. And as it wasnt, TSB hasnt acted unfairly in saying the second repayment plan wasnt 
met. 
So as Miss L had failed to meet two repayment plans, I consider TSB acted reasonably in 
issuing a default notice for the arrears on the account. Miss L hasnt said she didnt receive 
these letters. It seems she didnt respond as she was under the impression she was still 
making the payments needed under her plan, but I think TSBs letters were clear that she 
needed to take some action to avoid a default being registered. 
TSBs letter of 22 January 2021, says you have not made these payments by the agreed 
dates, and it is very clear what Miss L needs to do in terms of pay the £490 arrears on the 
account to avoid a default being registered. When no contact was received by the date of the 
letter (9 February 2021) a follow up letter was also sent on 13 February 2021. So Im 
satisfied TSB has done what it needed to in both issuing the default notice and applying a 
default on Miss Ls account, as she didnt respond to these letters.
So because I think TSB acted fairly, Im not going to ask it to remove any late payment 
markers or any reference to a default from her credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman