DRN-1855505
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Pinnacle Insurance plc (Pinnacle) cancelled his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy and didnt offer alternative cover.
What happened
Mr C told us that he thought he took out his PPI policy in about 1996, alongside a mortgage. 
The policy initially had a different underwriter, but it seems to have been transferred to 
Pinnacle in 2003. 
I dont have details of the original policy cost and benefit. But I do have information about the 
position in 2016  a copy of an annual review document shows a benefit amount of £500 
and a monthly cost of £18.73. The policy provided accident and sickness cover for Mr C and 
in the event of a successful claim, could have paid out for up to 12 months. 
In 2009 Pinnacle wrote to Mr C to notify him of changes to the terms and conditions of the 
policy, one of those changes being Pinnacles right to cancel the policy with 90 days notice 
in certain circumstances. In 2017 Pinnacle exercised that right, and the policy was cancelled 
with effect from October of that year. Mr C is unhappy that the cancellation took place and 
that Pinnacle didnt arrange for him to continue the cover with another provider as had 
happened in 2003. He said that it would be much more expensive to obtain similar cover 
now, and any existing health problems would not be covered  and he thought the premiums 
hed paid to Pinnacle should be refunded.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should not be upheld. Mr C didnt agree, and therefore 
it has been referred to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Pinnacle sent in a copy of the policy document (with the endorsement), along with copies of 
the letters it sent to Mr C to notify him of the impending cancellation. Ive looked at these 
carefully, along with all of Mr Cs comments. 
I can see from the original policy terms that, in the definition of end date there is a clause 
allowing for Pinnacle to end the cover at 30 days notice, with no requirement to give a 
reason. The policy endorsement sets out Pinnacles right to cancel in more detail, and 
includes the following;
We may cancel your insurance cover by giving not less than 90 days written notice:
in the unlikely event that for any of the reasons listed in Section A we expect to 
experience unsustainable losses for the particular country or market sector that applies 
to your policy; or
if we decide for reasons of strategy or cost that it is no longer viable for us to continue 
to provide cover within the particular country or market sector that applies to your 
policy.
Pinnacle then wrote to Mr C on 5 June 2017 to tell him that, for reasons of strategy and cost 
it was no longer viable for it to continue to provide cover under his policy, and that it would 
be cancelled with effect from 6 October 2017. The letter included information on how Mr C 
could go about finding alternative cover, provided answers to likely questions and set out 
how Mr C could make a complaint. Reminder letters were sent to Mr C on 4 July and 1 
September 2017.
I appreciate that Mr C feels strongly about the cancellation. But the policy did not have a 
guaranteed term, and Pinnacle was entitled to make the decision that it would discontinue 
cover. It met the commitment to give 90 days notice, as set out in the policy endorsement, 
and Im satisfied that it gave Mr C sufficient information about the cancellation. 
Mr C had the benefit of the cover for many years (and indeed made a successful claim on 
the policy, receiving just over £1,300, in 2015). So I cannot fairly say that Pinnacle should 
refund any of the premiums. 
I also note that Mr C said that his mortgage was repaid in 2019. The policy was designed to 
cover a mortgage, and the terms and conditions set out limits on the amount of benefit 
payable, over and above the mortgage payments, in respect of regular outgoings. So even if 
the policy had carried on, the terms and conditions suggest it is unlikely that Mr C would now 
have been able to make a claim for the full monthly benefit. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr C, but from the evidence I have, I cannot fairly say that this 
complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman