DRN-2496213
The complaint
Mr K says Western Circle Ltd, trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat), irresponsibly lent to him.  
Mr K says the lending was unaffordable for him and as a result he is in severe debt. 
What happened
This complaint is about one short-term loan Cashfloat provided to Mr K in July 2019. Mr Ks 
borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Monthly 
Repayment
1 01/07/2019 Outstanding 
balance3 £300.00 £145.40
The second of our adjudicators who looked at Mr Ks complaint upheld it and thought the 
loan shouldnt have been given. They thought the information Cashfloat had gathered about 
Mr K before agreeing to lend to him showed Mr K was having problems managing his money 
and it was unlikely Mr K would be able to sustainably repay the loan. 
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicator. It said the loan was for a small amount and 
repayable over a short period of time. Mr Ks credit file showed no defaults, CCJs and was 
up to date. It disagreed with the adjudicators understanding of the number of other short-
term loans Mr K had. It said it had complied with the relevant regulations when it lent to      
Mr K. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr K could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Cashfloat has told us of the affordability and creditworthiness checks it carried out before 
agreeing to lend to Mr K. This included information gathered from Mr K about his income and 
expenditure, a credit check and third-party reports which were all cross referenced. 
Mr Ks recorded income at the time of the lending was £2,010 and expenditure was £1,175 
which included other loan repayments. So, this left Mr K sufficient disposable income each 
month of £835 and on the face of it the lending would seem affordable for Mr K on a pounds 
and pence basis. 
In response to the adjudicator Cashfloat didnt agree with his conclusions when taking into 
account the loan itself and Mr Ks credit profile along with the regulatory requirements at the 
time the loan was taken. 
But Cashfloat has provided us with a copy of the credit report it carried out before agreeing 
to lend to Mr K. And the information shown in that report suggests Mr K was having 
problems managing his finances. 
I say this because the report shows that Mr K had 14 active accounts, ten of which had been 
opened with the previous six months. There had also been 11 credit searches for Mr K in the 
previous three months and a total of 36 search within the last 12 months. Mr K had other 
short-term lending/advances against income and which even if Cashfloat disagrees with the 
adjudicators assessment of the number of accounts, I think this was still a sufficient number 
for Cashfloat to have questioned whether it should have agreed to the lending. I appreciate the credit report itself is a long document. But the information I have referred to 
is mostly noted at the top of the report. And I think Cashfloat should have taken this 
headline information into account and reviewed the report further for more detail about     
Mr Ks financial circumstances.
Taking all of this into account, I think it was clear from the information that Cashfloat had 
already gathered that Mr K was having problems managing his money and which it should 
have taken into account. If it had done so, I think it would have reconsidered whether it was 
right to lend to Mr K as the information it had obtained suggested that it was likely Mr K was 
already in financial difficulty and the lending was sustainable for Mr K. So, I dont think the 
loan should have been given as it was unaffordable for Mr K  and as can be evidenced by 
the fact that the loan is still outstanding.  
So, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint as I dont think the loan should have been given. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr K, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr K may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr K in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr K would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Ks loan has been transferred to a third party Cashfloat 
should buy the loan back if it can. If Cashfloat cant buy the loan back, then it needs to work 
with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Cashfloat should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the 
outstanding loan, and treat any repayments made by Mr K as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on this loan. If this results in Mr K having made 
overpayments then Cashfloat should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
B) If there is still an outstanding balance then Cashfloat should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr K. Cashfloat shouldnt pursue any outstanding 
balance made up of principal Cashfloat has already written-off.C) Cashfloat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ks credit file in                                 
relation to the loan. Cashfloat does not have to remove the outstanding loan from Mr 
Ks credit file until it has been repaid, but Cashfloat should still remove any adverse 
information recorded about the loan.
                                                                                                                               
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr K still has an outstanding balance due, then Cashfloat should try 
and work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr K in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Cashfloat of its obligation to treat Mr K fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint. Western Circle Ltd should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman