DRN-4049988
The complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc refuses to refund the money he lost to an 
investment scam. 
What happened
Around November 2017, Mr F was searching for a merchant that would allow him to invest in 
Bitcoin. He came across Greenfields Capital (GC) and was interested in them as they 
offered a range of services  including investing in stocks, shares and currency. Mr F spoke 
with a broker from GC who offered a training programme  which Mr F completed. GC also 
offered Mr F a dedicated account manager who would guide him through his early trades 
and advised him he could withdraw his money as and when he wished. 
Mr F realised hed fallen victim to a scam towards the end of December 2017 when he tried 
to withdraw funds from his trading account and his account manager advised hed not met 
the required trading volume to do so. This came as a surprise to Mr F. After further 
conversations with GC, Mr F was blocked from accessing his trading balance and when he 
regained access, saw that hed lost a substantial amount due to trades that his account 
manager placed. He was still unable to withdraw what remained in the account. 
Ive included the list of disputed transactions below. These were made using Mr Fs Visa 
debit card  linked to his HSBC current account.
Transaction 
No. Date PayeeMethod of 
payment
Debits (£) Credits (£)Running 
Total (£)
1 28 November 2017 GCDebit card£1,000 £1,000
2 30 November 2017 GCDebit card£2,500 £3,500
3 30 November 2017 GCDebit card£9,000 £12,500
4 30 November 2017 GCDebit card£10,000 £22,500
5 12 December 2017 GCDebit card£7,499 £29,999
6 14 December 2017 GCDebit card£2,500 £32,499
7 14 December 2017 GCDebit card£7,500 £39,999
8 14 December 2017 GCDebit card£10,000 £49,999
9 18 December 2017 GCDebit card£7,500 £57,499
10 28 December 2017 GCDebit card£9,995 £67,494
11 28 December 2017 GCDebit card£5,000 £72,494
12 28 December 2017 GCDebit card£10,000 £82,494
13 29 December 2017 GCDebit card£9,995 £92,489
14 29 December 2017 GCDebit card£7,099 £99,588
15 5 December 2018 GCDebit card£3,500 £96,088
16 11 January 2018 GCDebit card£4,999 £101,083
Total 104,583 £101,083
In January 2018, Mr F contacted HSBC to report the scam and requested a refund of the 
disputed transactions. HSBC discussed processing chargeback claims on Mr Fs behalf and 
requested supporting evidence from him. Once Mr F provided HSBC with supporting 
evidence it processed chargeback claims. These claims were defended by GCs bank. 
HSBC decided to escalate the claims to Visas final stage of arbitration but Visa concluded 
Mr F hadnt provided the required documentation and deemed the claims invalid. 
Unhappy with the outcome and HSBCs lack of protection, Mr F referred his complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators felt HSBC should refund Mr Fs transactions, less any amounts 
returned/refunded. Mr F agreed but HSBC did not and asked for an Ombudsmans review. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Was Mr F scammed?
Banks have various and long-standing obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act 
in their customers best interests. But these are predicated on there having been a fraud or 
scam. So, my first consideration must be whether Mr F was most likely scammed. 
At the time GC offered its services to Mr F they would have been required to be licensed by 
the UKs Gambling Commission  but Ive noted they were not, nor were they regulated or 
licensed in any other jurisdiction (as far as Im reasonably aware).
Ive noted the FCA published a warning about GC on 18 April 2018. There was also an 
earlier warning on the International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) 
Investor Alerts portal dated 13 March 2018. 
Taking everything together, Im persuaded GC was operating a scam.
Prevention
As Im satisfied that GC was operating a scam, I need to consider whether HSBC could have 
reasonably suspected that at the time of Mr Fs payments. 
Its common ground that Mr F authorised the scam payments in question here. He was 
tricked by the scammers into instructing HSBC to make the payments. I accept these were 
authorised payments even though Mr F was tricked. So although he didnt intend the money 
to go to scammers, Mr F is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The first two transactions
I agree with our investigators assessment that neither transaction 1 nor 2 appeared all that 
remarkable when considering Mr Fs normal account spend. There is a balance to be struck 
but at the point of the first two transactions (international transactions of £1,000 and £2,500 
to a new payee), I dont think HSBC could have reasonably concluded that Mr F could be 
falling victim to a scam. As there were no prior credible warnings published about GC, I dont 
think either transaction (which were broadly in keeping with Mr Fs normal account spend) 
ought to have been flagged as suspicious by HSBC. Other than them being international 
transaction, I dont think they were unusual enough for HSBC to have had reasonable 
grounds to interrupt Mr Fs instructions. 
Transaction three
I think HSBC ought to have intervened at transaction 3. This was the second transaction on 
the same day to GC and was for £9,000  bringing the total value of transactions to GC to 
£11,500 on that day.
I do think the size of transaction 3, coupled with it going to a new overseas payee ought to 
have flagged as unusual to HSBC. Ive not seen Mr F make transactions of this magnitude - 
within a reasonable timeframe - having examined the statements provided by HSBC. 
I think HSBC reasonably ought to have spoken to Mr F, before allowing the transaction 
through, and to have asked Mr F who the transaction was for, what it was for, and for the 
basic surrounding context, and to have then proceeded appropriately from there, with the 
intention to disturb or unearth a potential fraud or scam. 
This transaction was substantially higher than any transactions Mr F had made leading up to 
the scam. Therefore, it would have been reasonable for it to have properly questioned Mr F 
before processing the transaction to satisfy itself that all was well.
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mr F would have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the 
bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have 
explained to him that GC were required to be licensed by the UKs Gambling Commission in 
order to offer their services. And given that GC also offered other services that required FCA 
regulation, HSBC could have also advised Mr F that GC most probably required regulation to 
operate legitimately and pointed him to the direction of the FCA and the UKs Gambling 
Commission for further advice. 
HSBC could have explained its own customer experiences with unregulated and unlicensed 
high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be prevented from withdrawing 
available balances. Whilst HSBC has pointed out that Mr F hadnt yet tried to make 
withdrawals at the point of transaction 3, he understood he could at any time, without 
restriction. Yet when he later tried to withdraw the full amount available on his trading 
platform, he was unable to. I think if HSBC had appropriately brought this to his attention, hed have likely paused and looked into this further, before deciding to part with any more of 
his funds. 
After all, at that time, there was information in the public domainwhich a bank ought to 
have known even if a lay consumer ought notabout the very high risks associated with 
binary options trading, including many warnings of potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 
2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets Authoritys July 2016 warning; the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of December 2016; and the Gambling 
Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an unlicensed operator is likely operating 
illegally; City of London Polices October 2017 report noting victims had lost over £59m to 
binary options fraud; Visas Business News publication of October 2017 where it expanded 
its chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and investment disputes arising from 
merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying deceptive practices; and so forth).
There is no evidence that HSBC provided Mr F with any meaningful warnings or gave him 
other reasons to doubt the legitimacy of the payments he was making. It was therefore a 
missed opportunity to intervene.
Credible regulator warnings were not published about GC until after Mr F made all his 
payments. But, given what Ive said above, I think HSBC ought to have given Mr F a very 
stern warning indeed, including explaining how scams like this work, and the red flag 
surrounding the lack of licensing and regulation. And I do think that Mr F would most likely 
have listened and taken HSBCs warnings seriously and ceased payments to GC.
So, I think that if HSBC had done what it reasonably ought to have done, its most likely Mr F 
wouldnt have proceeded with transaction 3, or any subsequent transactions to GC.
Ive noted that Mr F made a further transaction of £4,999 to GC on 11 January 2018 (after he 
realised hed been scammed). Ive further noted at the time Mr F asked HSBC to assist him 
with recovering his money back from GC, HSBC advised Mr F to continue to try to withdraw 
from his trading account (in order to obtain the required chargeback evidence). Mr F explains 
that at the time he made his withdrawal request, GC offered to refund £5,000 to him but 
instead, they debited his account. So this doesnt alter my opinion that Mr F would have 
likely not invested any further funds with GC if HSBC had given a meaningful warning, not 
least because Mr F didnt (intentionally) invest any further funds with GC after he suspected 
hed been scammed and only re-engaged with them on the advice of HSBC. 
Did Mr F contribute to his loss?
I think this was a sophisticated scam and Mr F couldnt have reasonably foreseen that he 
was dealing with a scammer. Mr F was provided with training and what he believed was an 
experienced account manager to guide him through trades. Once Mr F was provided access 
to his trading account, he saw hed made profits. I dont think he could have reasonably 
known that the trading balance was likely fake or a simulation  unless prompted by his 
trusted bank. 
Ive noted HSBCs comments that Mr F ought to have carried out further checks into GC 
before parting with a substantial sum of money. But what HSBC has failed to recognise is 
that there werent any credible warnings about GC at the time Mr F paid them. I dont think 
Mr F could reasonably have had the insight that a financial professional like HSBC had into 
the operation of these sophisticated scams, simply because HSBC would have seen more 
examples than Mr F. 
Overall, I dont think Mr F contributed to his losses, so I dont suggest the overall settlement 
be reduced. Chargeback
As I decided that transactions 1 and 2 shouldnt have triggered HSBCs fraud detection 
systems, Ive reviewed how HSBC handled Mr Fs chargeback claims and whether it could 
have done more to successfully pursue all of his disputed transactions. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa (the scheme relevant to Mr Fs debit card 
transactions) whereby they will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and 
customer if it cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is 
subject to the rules of each scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback 
can succeed. Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or 
scheme rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. HSBC) acted fairly 
and reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its 
cardholder.
In this case, HSBC pursued chargeback claims on Mr Fs behalf and escalated them to 
Visas final stage of arbitration and Visa determined the claim was invalid as Mr F didnt 
produce the evidence required of the reason code. Ive seen that HSBC asked Mr F for the 
evidence required of the reason code and Mr F provided as much supporting evidence as 
he could. These chargeback claims seem to have failed because Mr Fs account balance 
screenshot and withdrawal evidence needed to be dated on the same day  whereas the 
evidence provided by Mr F was dated on different days.
Ultimately, as Visa had the final say, I cant say that HSBC could have done anymore than it 
did to help prepare and pursue Mr Fs chargeback claims. 
Putting things right
Ive explained why I think, if HSBC had done what it reasonably ought to have done, Mr F 
would not have lost the disputed transactions.
HSBC should therefore pay Mr F £101,083. Ive already deducted the credit received by the 
scammers. However, HSBC should examine its internal notes against Mr Fs bank 
statements as its business file submissions indicate Mr F received a further credit of £5,000 
from GC  I believe this was in relation to transaction 16, which Mr F believed would be 
credited rather than debited from his account. But HSBC hasnt provided any supporting 
evidence that this payment was received. 
Providing this payment was not later re-debited through HSBCs chargeback claims, HSBC 
will be entitled to deduct credits from GC or successful chargeback claims made against the 
GC transactions that have not been accounted for. HSBC should provide Mr F with a 
breakdown of its calculations.  
As Mr F was interested in investing in Bitcoin trading at the time he came across GC, I think 
its likely that if he had decided not to invest with GC, hed have likely invested with a 
legitimate company offering Bitcoin trading. Given the very high risks associated with crypto, 
its likely Mr F would have lost money, so I dont think HSBC should apply any additional 
interest to this award. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require HSBC UK Bank Plc to:Refund all the transactions made to GC (less any refunds received from GC or 
refunds received as the result of successful chargeback claims).
Provide Mr F with a breakdown of its refund calculation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman