DRN-4181155
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint concerns charges to his SIPP (self invested personal pension) with
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HL). Mr R says the charges werent
clearly set out and hes been charged higher fees than hed been led to expect.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 24 May 2023. Ill recap what I said about what had 
happened and my provisional findings.
Mr R had a SIPP with HL. In May 2017 Mr R moved the funds held in that SIPP into
drawdown  so into a SIPP Drawdown Account with HL. At that stage Mr Rs SIPP was
closed. In August 2019 the SIPP was reopened when Mr R transferred another
uncrystallised SIPP into his HL SIPP. So he had a SIPP and a SIPP Drawdown Account with
HL.
HL makes annual charges for holding funds. The charge is 0.45% pa on the first £250,000
which decreases incrementally if the value of the funds held increases. Mr R has no issue
with that charge and the fact that it applies to all the funds held  both in the SIPP and the
SIPP Drawdown Account. Theres also an annual charge for holding shares  0.45% pa of
the total value of the shares held, capped at a maximum of £200 pa. That was the maximum
Mr R expected to be charged. But he later discovered the £200 cap applied to each account
(his SIPP and his Drawdown Account) separately. So, instead of paying a maximum of £200
pa for both accounts, the maximum was £400 pa.
Mr R queried the charges over the telephone in February 2021. The first representative on
HLs helpdesk Mr R spoke to agreed there was only one £200 maximum charge for a SIPP,
covering shares that are and arent in drawdown. But another representative then called
back and said there were definitely two limits charged although he couldnt identify where
that was explicitly stated.
Mr R complained to HL but his complaint wasnt upheld. HL referred to the documents Mr R
had been given in May 2017 when he went into flexible drawdown and to the statements
hed received, particularly those from 2018 onwards. HL acknowledged the wording on the
website Mr R had referred to gave the impression the SIPP Drawdown Account may be held
within the SIPP rather than separately. But HL said it was stated that the charges for the
accounts are treated separately and that holding both the SIPP and SIPP Drawdown
Account is to hold more than one account. HL said feedback would be given to the web
development team about changing this to explicitly state the cap applies to the accounts
separately. HL was sorry thered been a misunderstanding but it was satisfied Mr R had
been charged correctly. It offered £100 as Mr R had been initially misinformed when he
spoke to HL in February 2021 although that had been corrected the same day.
Mr R referred his complaint to us. One of our investigators considered it. But she didnt
uphold it. In summary, she thought Mr R had been given sufficient information to know he
had two SIPP accounts, each subject to a separate set of charges. She also referred to the
investment reports Mr R had received. She said the £100 offered for giving incorrect
information over the telephone was fair. She didnt think HL needed to do anything further.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators view. He commented in detail on what HLs
documentation did (and didnt) say. I dont reiterate each and every point here. But he said
the documents didnt identify there are two individual charge caps and he felt the individual
charge caps issue had become conflated with the issue of charges. He fully appreciated that
charges are due on all funds in the SIPP. He said that determining whether the crystallised
and uncrystallised funds are separate accounts was secondary and the issue was simply
whether HL had properly communicated the additional cap.
Mr R pointed in particular to two documents  the Guide to Drawdown and Frequently
asked questions about starting drawdown in the Vantage SIPP. Both clearly stated the only
addition to normal charges during drawdown was an early closure fee. Amongst other things,
Mr R said HLs documentation was unclear and/or misleading. It didnt specify individual
limits for crystallised and uncrystallised funds held in a pension but relied on footnotes to
tables when simply specifying the limits wouldve been clearer. And it said no extra charges
would apply, yet some fees would be double for partial drawdown. Mr R was also unhappy
with our investigation. He made several points about why he didnt agree with what the
investigator had said. He set out what would remedy things and he included an annotated
copy of the investigators view.
We asked Mr R to supply the two documents hed referred to which he did, together with
HLs covering letter of 23 March 2017 and three further documents enclosed. Mr R made a
number of further comments and annotations on the documents hed provided. He also
referred to what HLs website said.
The investigator considered the further points Mr R had raised and the documents hed
pointed to but she wasnt persuaded to change her view. She said, when two separate SIPP
accounts were held (which would include a drawdown SIPP and a non-drawdown SIPP),
there were charges on each of the SIPP accounts up to the £200 cap, under HLs normal
pension charges. The early closure fees were in addition to the usual charges. Each
separate account had separate normal pension charges, as explained in the key features.
Mr R disagreed. He didnt think his complaint had been investigated fairly. Again, Im not
going to set out here all of his detailed comments. He said the issue to determine was simply
whether HL had properly communicated the charges associated with the additional cap.
Mr R referred again to the documents hed received in May 2017. He said it was HLs
responsibility to clearly and unambiguously define charges. It was up to him to understand
the charges but he could only understand what had been written down  a single maximum
limit for charges in a SIPP. He said the investigator had ignored some key points which Mr R
set out. He suggested that HLs Tariff of Charges should be modified to make things clear.
Mr R reiterated that he didnt need advice and the onus was on HL to clearly specify the
charges. Annual statements had been provided but they were insufficient to readily
determine what or how many charge limits had been applied. Mr R maintained the evidence
was overwhelming that HL hadnt clearly and unambiguously stated the charges that had
been taken.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view. He was also unhappy with how the
investigation was carried out. Im only considering here the complaint itself, not any issuesabout the way weve handled things. That said, theres some overlap in that some of the
issues Mr R has raised go to the merits of the complaint, that is, if it should be upheld or not.
For example, the suggestion that the investigator ignored certain evidence and/or preferred
other and what Mr R suggests is more tenuous evidence. In deciding the complaint Ive
borne in mind any criticisms Mr R has made which pertain to the merits of his complaint and
whether the outcome reached by the investigator was correct.
We have a two stage process and, as Mr R didnt accept the investigators view, the
complaint was referred to me. Ive considered everything afresh and reached my own
conclusions. Mr R has commented extensively. I havent set out all hes said although Ive
read and taken everything into account. But, in reaching my conclusions, Ive concentrated
on what I see as the key points.
I agree the issue to determine is whether HL properly communicated the charges Mr R
would be paying. But I dont see that must translate into whether HL properly communicated
the additional cap. If the cap correctly applies to each account separately then I dont think
it can be described as an additional cap and so wouldnt need to be communicated as such.
More generally, I wouldnt necessarily uphold the complaint, even if I thought the charges
couldve been made clearer, if I was satisfied that, on a careful reading of all the relevant
documentation, the charges and how theyd be applied were correctly set out.
Mr R has said its irrelevant that he didnt take financial advice. I agree Mr R didnt need
professional advice. But I think all the investigator was saying was that, if Mr R had an
adviser in place, they may have been aware of exactly how HLs charges worked which
mightve prevented any confusion later. But, as Mr R didnt have and didnt need an adviser,
I agree that isnt relevant and the issue remains whether HL made its charges sufficiently
clear to Mr R.
Ive also taken into account that HLs representatives werent always clear about the charges
and specifically how the £200 cap applied. It isnt disputed that the first representative Mr R
spoke to on 1 February 2021 got things wrong. And, although what had been said was
quickly corrected, the second representative was unable to point to anything which directly
addressed whether one or two caps would be applied. But, while Mr R may point to
uncertainty or confusion among HLs own staff as supporting what he says about the
charges not being clear, it isnt determinative. I need to consider the documentation as a
whole, and any other information sources, such as HLs website, in deciding if, from the
information Mr R was given, he shouldve known the £200 cap would apply to both his SIPP
and his Drawdown Account separately.
I accept Mr R made decisions based on the information which HL provided. Theres some
potential for confusion in considering Mr Rs complaint because some, if not all, of the
documents have been updated. I recognise that HL can update its documentation but Mr R
has said the information he got in 2017 was inadequate so thats what Ive considered.
Ive focused on HLs letter dated 23 March 2017 and the information which was sent with
that letter. The documents enclosed included: The Guide to Drawdown; Frequently asked
questions about drawdown in the Vantage SIPP; Important Information and Key Features of
Drawdown in the Vantage SIPP; Vantage Service Key Features and Terms & Conditions,
which included a Tariff of Charges.
Looking at the letter itself first, Mr Rs position is that whether the uncrystallised and
crystallised funds are separate accounts is a secondary issue. But I think, whether there
were one or two accounts, is a key consideration in deciding if HL made its charges clear.
The letter itself is headed Flexible drawdown from [my emphasis] the Vantage SIPP. Thats
repeated on the second page, under the heading Five reasons to consider flexibledrawdown from the Vantage SIPP. And the low charges are given as the first reason.
Theres no charge to set up flexible drawdown and the only addition to HLs normal pension
charges is stated to be an early closure fee.
I understand, when a Benefit Crystallisation Event (BCE) occurs, such as moving funds into
flexible drawdown, HL has to separate the crystallised and uncrystallised funds for tax
purposes. The Drawdown Account is used to hold the crystallised funds so, if these are
withdrawn, they are liable to income tax. The uncrystallised funds remain in the SIPP
account so both HL and the client know these funds can still be withdrawn with 25% as tax
free cash. But the issue is still if it was clear to the client thered be two accounts and two
sets of charges. dont think its apparent from the letter that therell be two accounts  the
SIPP and the SIPP Drawdown Account. But that was set out elsewhere. The Terms &
Conditions include the following in the definitions section:
HL Vantage Service means the overall investment service we agree to provide to you, on a
non-advised basis, under these Terms and comprises services relating to the operation of
the HL Vantage Fund & Share Account, the HL Vantage Stocks & Shares ISA, the HL
Vantage Lifetime ISA, the HL Vantage Junior ISA, the HL Vantage Cash ISA, the HL
Vantage SIPP, Drawdown and all Accounts held within HL Corporate Vantage, together with
the various underlying services (such as the Paperless Service and the Online Service)
which enable us to provide these facilities to you;
So the SIPP and Drawdown accounts are referred to as separate accounts. Other
references in the Terms & Conditions are consistent with that. For example, section E1 says
the maximum income is the total value of the Flexible Drawdown Account at the time of
payment. So thats a separate account to the SIPP itself. E1 also sets out what happens if a
payment request would result in the balance of the Flexible Drawdown Account falling below
£1,000. Thats not the case here but I mention it because it refers to the opening of a
Flexible Drawdown Account as a separate account. And section E4 deals with cancellation
and says theres normally the right to cancel the Drawdown Account within 30 days of the
account being opened by writing to HL. Again the Drawdown Account is referred to as a
separate account.
But, and more importantly, I that the position is clearly set out in the Important Information
and Key Features for Drawdown in the Vantage SIPP. It has a questions and answers
section. It includes the following:
What will happen to my existing HL Vantage SIPP account once I start drawdown?
If you are moving all of your SIPP into drawdown, we will close your SIPP account once this
is complete. It will be visible online but only so you can see any transaction history. If you
wish to make any contributions or transfer any non-drawdown pension into the HL Vantage
SIPP, you can call us to request an application. If you are moving part of your SIPP into
drawdown, the remaining money will stay in your SIPP. You will then have two SIPP
accounts, a drawdown SIPP and a non-drawdown SIPP.There are changes in the later version to whats said about the annual charges for holding
shares which is what Mr Rs complaint centres on. First, in the later version, both SIPP and
Drawdown Accounts are shown, whereas in the earlier version only SIPP appears. And the
later version includes a statement that (similar to the one which appears in both versions
about the annual charges for holding funds) the charge applies to each account separately.
Given that the SIPP and Drawdown Account are shown separately, I think it would be clear
that theres a maximum charge for each of £200 pa, so £400 in all.
But I think theres some ambiguity with the earlier version. It says annual charges for holding
funds apply to all accounts separately but is silent about the annual charges for holding
shares. By omission, that might infer, and as the SIPP and the Drawdown Account arent
separately identified, theres only one annual charge for holding shares and which applies to
the SIPP, including any Drawdown Account.
Moving on from the Tariff of Charges, Mr R has pointed in particular to two documents  the
Guide to Drawdown and Frequently asked questions about starting drawdown in the
Vantage SIPP as both clearly stating the only addition to normal charges during drawdown
was an early closure fee. And Mr R has referred to that message being given elsewhere.
While I understand Mr Rs point, if there were two accounts each subject to separate
charges, there was no addition to the usual charges (apart from an early closure fee) as
such. So there was no need for any additional cap to be specified as there was in effect no
extra cap, just a separate cap applied to each account  the SIPP and the Drawdown
Account.
Mr R has also referred to the website. I dont think anything turns on this as, in my view, the
written information Mr R received, read carefully and as a whole, did say the SIPP and the
SIPP Drawdown Accounts were separate and that charges would apply to each. And it
seems from what Mr R said over the telephone on 1 February 2021 that the website didnt
contain incorrect information although Mr R considered what was said couldve been clearer.
I havent considered the statements that Mr R received and if, from those, he shouldve seen
sooner that he was paying higher charges than hed been expecting. I can see Mr R may not
have had any real reason to check things on the basis he thought he knew what hed be
charged from the information he was given in 2017. I dont know what prompted Mr R to start
to look into what charges hed been paying. But his complaint is based on the information he
got in 2017 and my decision reflects that.
But, as Ive explained above, even if things might have been made clearer, that doesnt
mean Id uphold the complaint and say HL should have to refund the higher charges. I can
see why Mr R was unhappy when he found out that the maximum charge for holding shares
was double what hed thought. But I think the documents, read carefully, said the SIPP and
the Drawdown Account were separate accounts which meant two sets of charges could
apply. Initially Mr Rs SIPP was dormant. So Mr R was only subject to one set of fees for one
account  his Drawdown Account. But when Mr Rs SIPP was reopened the charges for that
and his Drawdown Account were separate which meant the annual charges for holding
shares could be applied separately and to each account.
On balance, Im not going to say HL must refund any charges to Mr R. And I think the £100
offered for any distress and inconvenience he suffered because of the miscommunication on
1 February 2021 is fair. But I think how the £200 cap applied couldve been made clearer. In
its final response letter HL conceded that its website gave the impression the SIPP
Drawdown Account was held within the SIPP. Some of the documentation Ive referred to
suggested that too. And, more significantly, the version of the Tariff of Charges Mr R
received couldve been clearer. In my view, anyone wanting to know what theyd be charged 
would naturally look first to the Tariff of Charges. It would seem HL may have recognised 
there was some room for confusion and made the updated version clearer.
So, while Im not going to say that HL needs to refund any of its charges, I think HL should
make a payment to reflect the distress (including disappointment) and inconvenience
suffered by Mr R because the charges werent as clear as they couldve been. I think £200
would be fair and reasonable. Thats in addition to the £100 HL offered in respect of what
happened on 1 February 2021. Im not sure if the £100 has already been paid. If it has it can
be deducted from the £300 Ive awarded in total.
HL said it had nothing to add in response to my provisional decision. Mr R made some 
further points:Id said that HL had contacted him a second time to correct their mistake which 
wasnt the case  hed had to contact HL again as he still couldnt reconcile the 
charges.
Id said he shouldve realised from the statements that there were two caps but he 
maintained that wasnt readily apparent. He was disappointed I hadnt reviewed a 
statement and he asked me to do that briefly to verify my opinion because the 
statements werent clear on the application of caps. 
Both I and HL suggest the charges arent clear but that he shouldve realised that 
caps existed for separate accounts. But it was a retail product and he understood it 
was HLs legal responsibility to state the charges clearly and unambiguously. 
Furthermore, the regulators rules bolster the normal legal requirements for clarity. 
HL itself admits there is a possibility for confusion but is satisfied theres an adequate 
caveat. HL shouldnt have to rely on caveats and, in particular, ones that didnt exist 
originally. Mr R was surprised Id chosen to publish the statements regarding a lack 
of clarity but I hadnt fully upheld his claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered Mr Rs comments in response to my provisional decision. 
When he says he had to contact HL again before the mistake was corrected, I think hes 
referring to what happened on 1 February 2021 when he was initially told there was only one 
£200 maximum charge for a SIPP covering shares that are and arent in drawdown. Id said 
HL had called him back to correct the mistake but I acknowledge that wasnt the case  Mr R 
in fact called HL again for further clarification and the second representative to whom he 
spoke said there were two limits.  
I didnt mean to imply in my provisional decision that Mr R shouldve realised from the 
statements that there were two caps. The point I was trying to make was that Id in effect 
disregarded the statements as I thought the information that Mr R had been given at the 
outset was more important and hed have based his decisions on that. For completeness Ive 
taken a quick look at the statements. They include Mr Rs other accounts  his Stocks & 
Shares ISA and his Fund & Share account. Although portfolio overviews are included, the 
statements are lengthy and detailed. I dont think from the statements the fact that there are 
two caps is immediately apparent. But the statements do show the SIPP and the SIPP 
Income Drawdown Account as separate accounts each with their own transactions. 
I understand entirely Mr Rs point that the charges should be clear and unambiguous. And I 
accept that certainty of terms is a requirement of contract law and that there are specific 
regulatory provisions aimed at ensuring clients are provided with clear information as to 
costs and any associated charges. In an ideal world, a complaint such as Mr Rs would 
never arise as in all cases thered never be any confusion or ambiguity about charges and if 
theyd been set out in a clear, fair and not misleading way. 
But where, as here, a dispute does arise my approach is as I set out in my provisional 
decision. Even if I thought the charges couldve been made clearer, that doesnt mean Id 
automatically uphold the complaint. Id take into account if the relevant charges and how 
theyd be applied were correctly set out in the relevant documentation, even if that might 
need careful reading of more than one document. 
On balance my views remain as Ive previously indicated. Ive set out in full above what I 
said in my provisional decision and it forms part of this decision. Im upholding the complaint in part and awarding compensation for the distress (including 
disappointment) and inconvenience suffered by Mr R because HL didnt make the charges 
as clear as they couldve done and in particular that the £200 cap applied to both Mr Rs 
SIPP and the SIPP Drawdown Account separately.    
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint but only in part. Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited must pay Mr R £300 for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered as identified 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman