DRN-2391327
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited incorrectly 
recorded a claim on her policy for a stolen key fob.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will
explain why. For clarity, in order to reach my final decision in this case, I have focused on 
whether AA Underwriting Insurance should have logged a claim against Mr Bs policy. I 
understand that Mrs B has raised other concerns, but these have been looked at separately.
Mr and Mrs B have said that they contacted AA Underwriting Insurance on              
12 December 2019 to notify them that Mrs Bs key fob had been stolen. They had 
said, they made it clear that they were not making a claim but simply to notify AA 
Underwriting Insurance that the key fob had been stolen.
Unfortunately, AA Underwriting Insurance were unable to provide the call recording 
of the discussion which took place on 12 December 2019, due to the passage of 
time. So, I have considered he events that followed. 
Mr B has said he pursued the claim elsewhere and therefore this demonstrates he 
had no intention of pursuing the claim through AA Underwriting Insurance. But AA 
Underwriting Insurance has said that during the call on 17 December 2019 the call 
was transferred to key assist, which indicates some conversation took place 
indicating Mrs B wished to pursue the claim. 
I have reviewed the contact notes provided and I can see that this appears to be the 
case. I have also seen correspondence to show that key assist advised a claim was 
declined but this was due to it not having the correct parts as oppose to Mrs B stating 
she didnt wish to pursue the claim. As such I am persuaded that originally some 
conversation must have taken place between Mrs B and key assist about pursuing 
the claim  in order for key assist to decline the claim due to parts.
Having reviewed the contact notes provided, I can see a call was made on               
26 March 2019 to the number it held on file. But the agent didnt manage to speak to 
her as she was unavailable.
It appears from the contact notes that a further call was made on 4 April 2019, the 
agent didnt speak to Mrs B but did manage to speak to the named driver on the 
policy (Mr B). During that call it appears Mr B didnt feel comfortable providing Mrs 
Bs contact details, so the agent confirmed an email would be sent to her. And so, I 
think it is likely Mr B was aware AA Underwriting Insurance wanted to speak to Mrs B 
and that it she should be expecting an email. 
On 4 April 2019 I can see that AA Underwriting Insurance wrote to you explaining 
they had tried to get hold of you regarding your claim. I checked the system notes 
provided by AA Underwriting Insurance and I am satisfied this correspondence was 
issued. As such, considering the communication said, it was regarding an ongoing 
claim, I think it is reasonable to suggest Mrs B was aware the claim was still open. 
And I think it is reasonable to suggest that she or her husband could have contacted 
AA at that point to rectify the matter.
Overall, I dont dispute Mrs Bs version of events that she didnt wish to pursue a 
claim with AA underwriting Insurance. However, I have been persuaded by the 
evidence provided that originally some conversation took place to indicate that Mrs B 
was wishing to make a claim on the policy at that point. 
Im also satisfied that AA underwriting attempted to contact Mrs B on numerous 
occasions by different methods of communication. As such I think it was reasonable 
to suggest Mr and Mrs B were aware there was an outstanding issue which AA 
underwriting wanted to resolve.
Finally, I am satisfied that once it was made aware that Mr and Mrs B didnt wish to 
pursue the claim, the claim was closed, and NCB reinstated. Therefore, I wont be 
asking AA Underwriting to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman