DRN-4149509
The complaint
N, a company, complains that Hiscox Insurance Company Limited, trading as Hiscox failed 
to provide it with the correct level of cover needed to pursue a claim against a former 
employee.
Ns complaint is brought by Miss M. 
What happened
In 2022 N took out a commercial insurance policy with Hiscox over the phone. Miss M said N 
needed cover because it cancelled a policy with a previous insurer when it found out the 
insurance it had in place didnt cover it during trading hours. 
The policies N ended up taking out with Hiscox were public, products and employers 
liability. It also took out crisis containment and commercial assistance, which included 
access to a legal advice line. 
In 2023 Ns only employee left without notice and set up a rival business. Miss M says the 
employee acted in breach of contract and stole confidential information from N in the 
process. When this happened N discovered it didnt have any insurance cover in place that 
could help it pursue a claim against the former employee. So, it ended up funding pre action 
legal costs itself. Miss M says that had Hiscox sold N the correct level of cover, N would not 
have found itself in difficulty. She says Hiscox should now be responsible for Ns legal costs 
in pursuing things against the former employee as well as the ongoing losses to Ns 
business as a result of its former employees actions. 
Hiscox say the policy was sold on a non-advised basis and that they sold N the cover it 
asked for. They also say that had they sold N a legal expenses insurance policy, this 
wouldnt have provided it with cover for this sort of claim anyway- so there wasnt a situation 
in which the claim N now wants to pursue would be covered by any policies Hiscox had 
available anyway.
Our investigator assessed Ns complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. Miss M doesnt 
agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Ns complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by 
the investigator.
The policy was sold by telephone. I have listened to the sales call and am satisfied that it 
was sold on a non-advised basis. That means that Hiscox needed to give Miss M enough 
information to decide what cover she wanted to take out for N. But Hiscox didnt need to 
ensure that the cover it sold was suitable for Ns particular needs and circumstances- that 
was a decision N needed to make based on the information Hiscox supplied to Miss M. 
Miss Ms particular complaint is that the cover sold to her didnt provide N with protection in 
the event it needed to claim against a former employee. Having considered what Miss M 
said during the sales call, Im satisfied that N purchased the cover it asked for. In particular 
Miss M was looking for cover for the times N was trading (unlike the policy N previously had 
in place) as well as public liability cover. There was also discussion around the fact that N 
had one employee, so cover was offered for employer liability to that employee. There were 
no concerns raised by Miss M that she might want cover in the event that N needed to make 
a claim against its employee. Given the nature of the call and the fact that N seemed to take 
out exactly what Miss M asked for, Im satisfied that it got the type of cover requested. For 
clarity, we wouldnt expect an insurer to signpost every possible type of cover available to it 
to work out whether their policyholders wanted to take it out, without some sort of basis 
being established to support that.
But even if that wasnt the case, Ive thought about what more Hiscox could have offered N. 
Hiscox did have a commercial legal expenses insurance policy available. Theyve said they 
wouldnt usually offer that to prospective customers unless there was a need identified for it, 
such as where the customer says it works on contracts for example- but that wasnt the case 
for N. Ive seen a copy of the terms they could have offered N in respect of legal expenses 
insurance cover. Those terms dont extend to covering the situation N now finds itself in. 
Thats because they only cover N for defending claims against former employees rather than 
pursuing them. In addition, the policy specifically excludes pursuing claims like the one N 
wants to pursue. Ive also considered whether the claim would have been covered under any 
other section of the policy, but I cant see that it would have. Given this was all Hiscox had 
available to sell, I dont think I can say that N would have been any better off had Hiscox 
offered it this policy, because it wouldnt have covered N in any event. And for the reasons 
Ive mentioned above, I think N got the type of cover it was looking to take out. So I dont 
think Miss M would have gone elsewhere had it been highlighted to her that she wasnt 
getting cover for this type of situation.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Miss M but for the reasons Ive set out, I 
cant say that Hiscox did anything wrong.  
My final decision
I dont uphold Ns complaint against Hiscox Insurance Company Limited, trading as Hiscox.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman