DRN-3933189
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Starling Bank Limited did not decrease his withdrawal limit.    
What happened
Mr Y contacted Starling Bank on 3 February 2022 and asked to decrease his cash 
withdrawal limit on his account to £50, instead of £300. There was some initial confusion as 
the customer service agent thought Mr Y was asking to increase the limit. However, Mr Y 
was informed on 4 February that the cash withdrawal limit was fixed and could not be 
increased or decreased. 
Mr Y was unhappy with this and requested a call back from a manager, which was not 
arranged as requested. Mr Y then asked for a complaint to be raised but there was some 
confusion with the agent, and this was not officially raised until 8 February. 
Starling Bank issued a final response letter in which it explained the agent was correct when 
they said the cash withdrawal limit is fixed and cannot be changed. But they acknowledged 
that the customer service was not as good as it could have been in parts so paid Mr Y £30 
for the distress and inconvenience this caused him. 
Mr Y referred the complaint to our service and our Adjudicator looked into it for him. They felt 
that the offer made by Starling was fair in the circumstances and did not think they needed to 
take further action. 
Mr Y disagreed with this as he did not feel the Adjudicator had considered everything. And 
he felt that if he did not agree with the £30 compensation it should not have been paid to 
him.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Adjudicator for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why in 
more detail. 
Ive first considered the request to decrease Mr Ys withdrawal limit. Mr Y has explained this 
was due to him trying to control his spending habits and he mentioned he had placed a 
gambling restriction on his account previously. Starling Bank has confirmed the gambling 
block was applied in April 2021. 
While I appreciate Mr Y was trying to proactively limit his spending, I have to consider that 
his request to decrease his withdrawal limit was not a feature Starling Bank was able to 
amend. Because of this, I cant agree that they have made an error in declining Mr Ys 
request. 
Ive gone on to consider the subsequent communication and delays between Mr Y and 
Starling Bank. I can see that despite the initial confusion, Mr Y was clearly told that the cash 
withdrawal limit could not be decreased the day after he initially asked the question. 
Considering this, I think Starling Bank informed Mr Y of this within a reasonable timeframe. 
I can see that there was some confusion over the raising of a complaint, but I think the 
miscommunication has come from both parties after reviewing the contact logs. Regardless, 
Starling Bank have accepted that their service was not up to the usual standard. 
Having considered the minor delays, I do think the £30 compensation already offered and 
paid is in line with what I would have recommended on the circumstances. So, I think the 
offer is fair and I dont instruct Starling Bank to increase this. I appreciate Mr Y feels he 
should not have been paid the £30 if he did not agree to it, but this is not an unusual 
approach to complaint handling and I dont think Starling Bank have acted unreasonably in 
paying him the £30 prior to acceptance. 
My final decision
I do not instruct Starling Bank Limited to take further action on Mr Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman