DRN-4221331
The complaint
C complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) blocked their merchant 
account and withheld funds they were entitled to. 
To put things right, C wants their funds returned along with interest and compensation. 
What happened
C has a merchant account with AESEL. In December 2022, following disputed payment 
claims made against C from its customers, AESEL reviewed the account and placed 
restrictions on it  the business account was suspended for payment. 
AESEL asked C about some of the transactions it had concerns about and requested related 
information. AESEL then created a reserve, which in effect meant it withheld payments from 
C. 
C says AESEL withheld around £65,000 but should only have withheld around £22,000 as 
that is the amount the disputes relate to. C says AESELs actions have led to it not being 
able to meet their rent payments, and face eviction. 
C complained to AESEL, and it did not uphold the complaint. In its final response, and follow 
up correspondence, AESEL in summary said: 
- The actions taken by AESELs Merchant Review Team in relation to the withheld 
payments was carried out in accordance with its standard procedures and terms of 
the account agreement 
- Section 10a of the agreements also says AESEL does not need to compensate 
merchants for a delay in making payment
- Section 7 of AESELs terms and conditions say it can exercise a right to withhold 
payments and create a reserve. AESEL doesnt take the decision to create such a 
reserve lightly, and will endeavour to release the funds as soon as possible 
Unhappy with AESELs response, C referred their complaint to this service. One of our 
Investigators looked into Cs complaint. They spoke to Cs director who said that they were 
facing cash flow issues because of AESELs actions and were concerned about meeting 
staff wages.  C has had to borrow money to get by to, but it has other card merchant 
terminal providers it can use. C also said that it was normal, given their business activities, 
for disputes to be raised. 
After looking into Cs complaint, our Investigator upheld it. Some of the key findings they 
made were: 
- The terms of the account agreement allow AESEL to hold a reserve to manage any 
potential liability. But AESEL are withholding funds more than £50,000  and this far 
exceeds any potential liability they could see 
- As most chargebacks were resolved in January 2023, its not clear why the remaining 
chargebacks havent been resolved sooner. Without evidence to explain otherwise, 
the review should have been completed by March 2023. 
- AESEL hasnt shown sufficient evidence that its treating C fairly in holding such a 
large sum and for as long as it has 
- AESEL have said it would shortly be releasing around £23,000 to C, but it hasnt 
explained why its this amount and when it will be released. Nor has AESEL 
explained why this differs to that of the disputed chargebacks amount  
- In terms of any compensation, we can only consider the impact on C as a legal 
entity. C still has access to its business premises so hasnt been evicted. Nor has 
any evidence been sent in to evidence C suffering a financial loss  something they 
havent claimed 
- To put things right, AESEL should maintain a reserve of £16,140 given its potential 
liability and it should release all remaining funds. AESEL should also pay 8% simple 
interest on those remaining funds from 1 March 2023 to the date of payment 
In response C says it has since received £9,000 from AESEL. But as AESEL did not agree 
with what our Investigator said, this complaint has now been passed to me  an ombudsman 
 to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything C and AESEL have said before 
reaching my decision. Its important to note, my decision focuses on AESELs actions 
regarding Cs merchant account.  
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from AESEL as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information AESEL 
has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
AESEL is strictly regulated in the UK and must take certain actions in order to meet its legal 
and regulatory obligations. AESEL is also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an 
existing business relationship. That sometimes means AESEL needs to restrict, or in some 
cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.Having seen the reasons why AESEL restricted and reviewed Cs account, Im satisfied it 
acted fairly and in line with its obligations by doing so. Both parties are aware that several of 
Cs payments had been disputed by the remitters. To that end, C says that it is typical for its 
remitting customers to dispute payments given the nature of its business. 
This brings me onto the crux of Cs complaint, that is, have AESEL acted fairly and 
reasonably, and in line with the terms of the account, by creating a reserve and doing so in 
excess of £50,000. 
Section 7; Protective Actions  Creation of Reserve of the accounts terms and conditions 
say: 
a.Regardless of any contrary provision in this Agreement, we may, in our reasonable 
judgment, determine that it is necessary to withhold, and offset amounts from, payments we 
otherwise would make to you under this Agreement or require you to provide us with 
additional security for your or any of your Affiliates actual or potential obligations to us 
including all of your actual or potential obligations to us or any of our Affiliates under this 
Agreement or any Other Agreement. Such withheld payments are called a Reserve. 
b. Some of the events that may cause us to establish a Reserve include:.(v) our 
receiving a disproportionate volume (whether in value or number) of Disputed Charges at 
any or all of your Establishments
d. We may increase the amount of the Reserve at any time provided that the amount of the 
Reserve will not exceed an amount sufficient, in our reasonable opinion, to satisfy any 
financial exposure or risk to us under this Agreement (including from Charges submitted by 
you for goods or services not yet received by Cardmembers), or to us or our Affiliates under 
any Other Agreement, or to Cardmembers. You shall have no rights to any amount held in 
Reserve in accordance with this Agreement until all your obligations have been discharged 
to our reasonable satisfaction
AESEL have sent me technical records which show many disputed payments being raised 
with it against C. Given what the terms, as above, say about the creation of a reserve where 
there are disproportionate volumes of disputed charges, Im satisfied AESEL acted both in 
line with the terms, and fairly and reasonably when creating it. 
The question then becomes about the value of the reserve. In its most recent of submissions 
related to this point, AESEL have given me technical records from its internal systems which 
show four payments amounting cumulatively to £16,140 remain in dispute and unresolved. 
Our Investigator has asked AESEL on several occasions to give this service a clear and 
detailed breakdown of what funds remain in the reserve, and whats still being withheld. I 
note C has told us they received £9,000 from AESEL, but AESEL had told us it was looking 
to release around £23,000. 
Without better information I cant decide on what exactly is still under dispute, and what 
should be released. But based on the information I do have, Im persuaded that AESEL 
should hold no more than £16,140 in reserve. Thats because the information I have shows 
these funds are still under dispute. 
AESEL have said these disputed payments all happened in 2022. I havent seen any 
evidence that there were new payments for it to consider  but given the restrictions on the 
account, I wouldnt expect there to be.  
If thats the case, and only £16,140 remains in dispute, Im also satisfied that any funds in excess of this amount should have been released to C in March 2023. Thats because, I 
think thats a reasonable time for AESEL to have investigated any outstanding disputes. 
AESEL should pay C 8% simple interest from the 1 March 2023 until settlement on these 
funds as Cs been deprived of using them. 
When thinking of compensation for any distress and inconvenience suffered, I must consider 
the basis of the legal entity making the complaint. Here it is a limited company. That means I 
cant award it compensation for any distress or anxiety caused  thats because it cannot 
suffer these emotions as a company. 
C has said it was facing eviction. But I note C still appears to have access to the business 
premises and their establishment in any case closes for business in the first two months of 
the year. Ive also thought about Cs ability to carry on doing business. Given C has told us 
they had another agreement with another merchant card issuer, I cant find they would have 
suffered any financial loss on future income. 
C has said they have been able to get by without these funds otherwise. So taking all of this 
together, I wont be awarding any further compensation than that of the simple 8% for C 
being deprived of its funds.
Putting things right
To put thing right, AESEL return any funds it holds in reserve above £16,140 to C. AESEL 
should also pay 8% simple interest on all funds above £16,140 from March 2023 up until 
settlement*. 
* If AESEL considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct tax from that interest, it 
should tell C how much its taken off. It should also give C a tax deduction certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint in part. I now direct American Express 
Services Europe Limited to put things right as above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman