DRN-1606275
 
complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Lloyds Bank PLC (trading as C&G) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with their mortgage. For simplicity, Ill refer to the business as 
Lloyds in most of the rest of this decision. 
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2000. They paid a monthly amount for 
the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. I explain why below.
I think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs P aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and 
they chose to take it. I say that because I can see that to get the PPI they had to complete a 
separate application form. They have signed the separate application form to get the cover. 
So I cant think that the PPI was added without their knowledge. There is nothing in the 
documentation they signed that suggests that getting the mortgage was dependent on them 
having to take the PPI. And if they hadnt wanted the cover they had no need to complete 
the application as they did. So, it seems that a discussion took place about PPI and a choice 
was made to take it. 
Mr and Mrs P told us that they were placed under pressure to take the policy. It is not in 
doubt that these recollections are made in good faith. However, this is a subjective area and 
I have been shown no evidence that supports this testimony. So, having considered the 
above, I consider that, in the absence of any further evidence in support of Mr and Mrs Ps 
testimony, I am not persuaded that I can reasonably conclude that they only took the policy 
because they were put under pressure to do so.
Lloyds recommended the PPI, so it had to check that the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs P  
and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because they were eligible for the policy and werent affected by any of the 
exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And they seem to have had a need for the cover. 
Theyve told us that whilst they enjoyed good sick pay benefits through their employers, this 
dropped significantly after three months, such that they might have had to rely on their family 
for help paying their mortgage after that. But the PPI policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay they would have received, it would have reduced their reliance on any help their 
family may have been in a position to offer them, and would have covered them for up to 12 
months if they were unable to work because of accident or sickness. And it would have 
provided the same benefits in the event that they lost a job. So thinking about all of this and 
the potentially serious consequences of defaulting on a loan secured on your home, I think 
they wouldve found the PPI useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
P.
As well as checking the policy was right for Mr and Mrs P, Lloyds also had to give them clear 
enough information about the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy was 
suitable for them, I dont think better information wouldve stopped them from buying it. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against Lloyds 
Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman