DRN-1456223
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited have turned down his claim on his travel 
insurance.
A representative has brought this complaint on behalf of Mr G, but for simplicity Ill just refer 
to him in this decision.
Background
In October 2019 Mr G was abroad and says his vehicle was broken into and items were 
stolen. He made a claim on his travel insurance policy  saying that hed parked his vehicle 
outside a store, locked the doors and went inside for around ten minutes. When he came 
back to his vehicle, he found his backpack had been taken from the rear passenger footwell. 
AXA declined Mr Gs claim, saying he didnt meet the relevant terms in their handbook 
including demonstrating that forcible and violent entry had occurred.
Unhappy with this, Mr G made a complaint to AXA, explaining hed never been told about 
their handbook. And added that he suspected the theft was committed by electronic jamming 
 which should be classed as forcible entry.
AXA responded to Mr Gs complaint. They said they believed they were right to turn down 
his claim for two reasons. They said the first reason is because they tell their policyholders 
all loss or theft should be reported to the police  but despite Mr G saying he had reported 
the theft to the police, hed not given them a police report.
AXA also said that Mr G had told them he thought the suspected method of getting in to the 
vehicle was electronic jamming. They add that their terms and conditions say they wont 
cover the loss of personal belongings unless left in a locked vehicle following forcible or 
violent entry. AXA go on to say theres no evidence to support the vehicle was locked, 
because there was no visible forced or violent entry.
Mr G was unhappy with this, saying he had provided a police report so was unsure why AXA 
said he hadnt, and asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so but felt AXA 
had acted fairly in turning down Mr Gs claim.
Mr G didnt agree. He said hed seen other cases our service had handled where wed 
upheld the claim and asked the insurer to pay it. And because he felt a theft had occurred, 
wanted things to be looked into again. Mr G provided further information, which our 
investigator sent on to AXA. They replied and said the claim would still be declined, even if 
the forcible and violent term was met, because the items have to be out of sight in a locked 
vehicle  and Mr G has said they were in the rear passenger footwell, so werent out of sight.
Because of this, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
Before reaching my findings, I noted Mr G had said in the police report he had video footage 
of the theft. So, we asked him to send that to us along with some further information to help 
me reach an outcome.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, which I know will come as a disappointment to Mr G.
I think its helpful to explain that I dont doubt Mr G did have his backpack and all the items in 
it stolen. Ive seen the footage, and I have sympathy for what happened to Mr G as its clear 
hes been the victim of crime here. But if Im to order AXA to pay out on the claim, I also 
need to be satisfied the insurance policy terms have been met, or that Mr G did everything 
he reasonably could have to have prevented the theft.
In the section under personal baggage what we will not pay for it says AXA wont pay for 
personal baggage unless it was left out of sight in a locked motor vehicle following forcible 
and violent entry. This is one term, so all parts need to be met in order for the claim to 
succeed.
Mr G has said an electronic jammer was used, as he definitely locked his vehicle  so this 
should count as force and mean his claim should be met. 
Im not sure I can agree with that though. Ive seen the video Mr G provided to us. This was 
recorded shortly after the theft, when Mr G was watching security footage back. Theres no 
clear evidence having seen it that a jammer was used. And on the video Mr G says Im sure 
I locked it but in a very uncertain way  Id have expected him to be more definite if he was 
sure hed locked the vehicle.
So, taking all of this into account, Im not currently satisfied that Mr G did lock the vehicle  
which means Im not satisfied the terms of forcible and violent entry have been met. But 
even if I were, I still dont think his claim should be met by AXA.
I say this because the terms also require the items to be left out of sight. Mr G said in the 
original claim form the backpack had been taken from the rear passenger footwell. In his 
latest communication to us that the backpack was pushed underneath the drivers seat in the 
rear footwell  so it was out of sight as much as possible in the kind of vehicle Mr G was 
driving.
I appreciate given the length of time this claim has gone on that Mr G would want to be 
clearer about where the backpack was left. But it still needed to be left out of sight. Referring 
back to the video footage, Im not satisfied it was. The video shows the thief walking up to 
the vehicle, taking a look around, and then in the space of a few seconds opening the 
vehicle door, taking the backpack and closing it again. I dont think I can reasonably say the 
backpack was out of sight, when it appears it was seen from outside the vehicle.
Because Im not satisfied Mr G did lock his vehicle, nor keep his backpack out of sight, I 
cant reasonably order AXA to meet his claim under the terms of the policy.
Ive noted that Mr G has provided a different final decision from our service, where it was 
accepted a theft had occurred, and the ombudsman ordered the claim to be met. But as our 
investigator explained, each case is considered on its individual merits, and for the reasons 
Ive explained above, I dont think Mr Gs claim should be met.
My decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman