DRN-2917668
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard registered a default on
his credit file before giving him a chance to make a repayment plan with them.
What happened
Mr Y had health issues which involved him leaving his job. As a result of this, arrears started
building up on his Barclaycard. Mr Y contacted a debt management company to help him
with his finances and Barclaycard agreed to place his account on hold in January 2020. He
requested correspondence to be sent via email as opposed to post from Barclaycard but Mr
Y says they told him that this wasnt their procedure, so they were only able to send him
information by post. Mr Y noticed that in May 2020 when he logged into his online banking,
he was surprised to see that the account had been closed and he was unable to use his
Barclaycard.
Barclaycard issued a default notice to Mr Y on 29 May 2020. The letter accompanying the
default notice explained that he had 28 days to either pay his arrears or call them to agree a
way forward. The default notice said he had until 29 June 2020 to pay the arrears or to
contact them if he couldnt afford to pay the arrears.
Mr Y contacted Barclaycard on 25 June 2020. He says he asked Barclaycard to put his
account on hold again. The call agent attempted to go through an income and expenditure
assessment with Mr Y but Mr Y asked the call agent to email him the form. The call agent
explained that he was unable to do so but he would post out the form for Mr Y to complete.
Mr Y says he received the form a few days later and the letter accompanying the form was
dated 25 June 2020. The accompanying letter said that once the form was completed, he
should ring them by 9 July 2020 or email them an electronic version of the form. Mr Y says
he sent the completed form back to Barclaycard.
Mr Y received a letter dated 26 June 2020 informing him that a default had been registered.
Mr Y complained to Barclaycard. He said he had difficulty contacting Barclaycards specialist
support team via telephone, the default registered was unfair as he was willing to set up a
repayment plan and that a default would affect his career due to the industry he worked in.
Barclaycard did not uphold Mr Ys complaint. They explained that due to the pandemic the
specialist support team were working from home which impacted call times. Barclaycard said
that his complaint regarding his account closing was resolved on a telephone call with them.
They also said that they had been unable to arrange a repayment plan with Mr Y in January
or May 2020 as he was in arrears with his utility bills. Barclaycard explained that as a
responsible lender, they had an obligation to report accurate information to credit reference
agencies and therefore were unable to amend his credit file or clear his outstanding arrears.
Mr Y brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold his complaint. She
explained that this service isnt able to dictate how a business runs their processes such as
how they communicate to customers. She said that the income and expenditure form
Barclaycard sent Mr Y wouldnt have prevented the default, as it was just to arrange a
repayment plan. Our investigator said that Barclaycard had taken actions she would expect
such as stopping interest and fees. She also said that Barclaycard had to ensure they
accurately reported the correct information to credit reference agencies and she thought
Barclaycard had treated him fairly. Mr Y did not accept the view of the investigator so asked
for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below: 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y has made a number of points to both Barclaycard and this service and Ive considered
and read everything hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and
informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and
reasonable here.
What I have to consider here is if Barclaycard have treated Mr Y unfairly in recording a
default. So Ive looked at the default notice that they sent him and the letter attached to the
default notice. The letter states that this is a formal notice that gives you 28 days to catch up
on your missed payments or call us to agree a way forward.
Mr Y contacted Barclaycard on 25 June 2020. This was one day before the default was
registered. I requested this phone call from Barclaycard as I wanted to listen to the content
of the call to hear if any arrangement was agreed between Mr Y and Barclaycard.
During the call neither party mentions the default letter. Im persuaded that the call handler is
not aware that a default notice has even been issued as he initially appears to think that Mr
Y is requesting a payment holiday, which businesses were offering at the time if their
customers had been impacted by coronavirus. But Mr Y explains that he was impacted by
health issues prior to the pandemic. Mr Y asks for the account to be put on hold and an
agreement for 14 days was made for the account to be on hold. But putting a hold on an
account would not stop a default being registered. A hold is only a suspension of interest
and fees to provide forbearance whilst Mr Y assesses his financial situation.
Mr Y asked for the hold to be extended to August as he was expecting money then and he
explains he is in financial difficulties. He explains to the call handler that he is behind on his
utility bills and then the call handler discusses Mr Ys income and outgoings to assess if they
could make an arrangement to pay the Barclaycard arrears. Im persuaded that this was not
an income and expenditure assessment to prevent the default as this was positioned by the
call handler to help Mr Y pay his arrears.
Ive considered what Mr Y has said about it being unfair that Barclaycard had applied a
default before he has had a chance to complete the income and expenditure form. But Im
not persuaded that this would have made a difference anyway. I say this as Ive already
mentioned that the income and expenditure form is in relation to make an arrangement to
pay the outstanding balance/arrears and not to stop a default from being registered. This is
supported by the letter that Barclaycard sent Mr Y to complete the income and expenditure
form. The letter says to enable us to assist you, please complete the form overleaf to help
you work out your finances and once completed, please telephone us by 9 July 2020, so
we can talk through your income and expenditure to ensure we agree the best possible
solution for your circumstances. So Im not persuaded that Barclaycard implied that the
default would be postponed or stopped depending on the outcome of the completion of the
income and expenditure form.
Im satisfied that Mr Y had every intention of making an arrangement to Barclaycard to tryand avoid a default being registered on his credit file. Hes provided the completed income
and expenditure form to me which shows he made an offer to pay them £100 a month. But
the expenditure form does show that he has more outgoings than income at the time it was
completed. Mr Y had told Barclaycard on the phone that he was expecting money in August
which was quite a long time from the deadline Barclaycard gave him. Mr Y had already
missed seven payments when the default was registered. So I think its very unlikely that
Barclaycard would have been able to make an agreement regardless of a completed income
and expenditure form being received by Barclaycard before the deadline they gave.
Ive considered what Mr Y has said regarding making arrangements with other companies
he owed money to. But in order to uphold this complaint I would need to see that
Barclaycard have made an error in registering the default. As Mr Y was in arrears for seven
months then Barclaycard have a duty to report this information to credit reference agencies.
They were entitled to issue a default notice and the default notice was clear that action
needed to be taken within 28 days to avoid the default. As the time had passed and Mr Y
hadnt cleared the outstanding balance or made an agreement with them, apart from a hold
on his account which wouldnt prevent the default from happening, then Barclaycard were
fair to register the default, even if Mr Y doesnt think they were.
In addition, when Mr Y had spoken to Barclaycard in January 2020 and May 2020 (both of
these dates were before the default notice was issued), to set up a repayment plan,
Barclaycard were unable to set up a repayment plan as Mr Y had arrears on his council tax,
gas, electricity and water bills. As Mr Y had asked for an extension of the hold on his
account in the June call and he confirmed his situation hadnt changed since he last spoke to
Barclaycard then Im satisfied that a repayment plan couldnt be agreed by the timeframe
given to prevent the default from happening.
Barclaycard wrote to Mr Y on 26 June 2020 to inform him they had registered a default. But
the default notice itself gave Mr Y a deadline of 29 June 2020 to take action. I asked
Barclaycard why the letter said 29 June as the accompanying letter had said he had 28 days
to take action. But 28 days from when the letter was dated would have been 26 June 2020.
Barclaycard have admitted that this must have been a system error. So Ive considered
whether this error has had an impact on what happened here. But Im not persuaded that it
has. I say this as Mr Y wasnt in a position to clear the outstanding balance by 29 June 2020
and hadnt reached a payment arrangement with Barclaycard by this date either. So Im
satisfied that this error had no impact on the default being registered. And the default was
correctly registered on the date it should have been  28 days after the default notice had
been issued.
Ive considered what Mr Y has said regarding Barclaycard not treating him fairly especially
during the pandemic. But Im not persuaded by this. I say this as they placed a hold on Mr
Ys account from January 2020. This ensured that Mr Y had a suspension of interest and
fees. Ive looked at Mr Ys statements and it doesnt appear that hes been charged interest
or fees from January 2020 until the default was registered. So Im satisfied that Barclaycard
did provide forbearance to Mr Y here. And Im persuaded that they did treat Mr Y fairly by
updating him with the status of his account in the letters they sent him.
Ive thought about what Mr Y has said about Barclaycard closing his account. As our
investigator explained to Mr Y, our role is not to tell a business how to run certain processes,
such as when they can restrict or close an account, but to ensure that they followed any
terms and conditions fairly. Im satisfied that they did this here. I say this as Mr Ys account
was already in arrears and he was not in receipt of his normal income due to his individual
circumstances. So Im persuaded that the actions Barclaycard took here were reasonable as
this would stop Mr Y increasing the money he owed Barclaycard which would help him repay
the outstanding balance faster when he was in a better financial position. Ive also read whatMr Y has said about how he preferred communication by email. But certain correspondence
such as default notices have to be sent by post as required by the regulator. So again, Im
unable to tell Barclaycard the method of how they should send their communication.
Ive also thought about what Mr Y has said about having difficulty getting in touch with
Barclaycard. As Mr Y has acknowledged himself, Barclaycard staff were working from home
and this caused delays in speaking to them. But Im not persuaded that this would have an
impact on whether a default would be registered or not. I say this as when Mr Y had spoken
to Barclaycard in January, May and June, an arrangement for payment could not be agreed
by the deadline given. So while call waiting times and a lack of available staff would be
frustrating for Mr Y, Im not persuaded that it has had an impact on the default being
registered.
Im aware of the impact that this decision may have on Mr Ys career moving forward, so I
can assure him I havent taken the outcome of this decision lightly. But in order to ask
Barclaycard to remove the default I would need to see that they have made an error in
registering the default. Im satisfied that they made no error in registering the default for the
reasons Ive already given. So it follows I do not intend to ask Barclaycard to do anything
further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Barclaycard said they had nothing further to add. Mr Y did not accept the 
provisional decision. He said that Barclaycard had applied the default because of lack of 
contact and communication, he has been successfully able to reach other financial 
institutions to reschedule his unsecured debt by setting easy payment plans, which later on 
he requested to be changed to regular payment plans from the time his income improved. Mr 
Y wanted me to instruct Barclaycard to reverse the decision of marking his account as 
defaulted, as that was because of a gap in communication and he did not want to default an 
account as he always wanted to set up a payment plan to settle his outstanding balance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr Y has said regarding making arrangements with other companies
he owed money to. As I mentioned in my provisional decision - in order to uphold this 
complaint, I would need to see that Barclaycard have made an error in registering the 
default. As Mr Y was in arrears for seven months then Barclaycard have a duty to report this 
information to credit reference agencies. They were entitled to issue a default notice and the 
default notice was clear that action needed to be taken within 28 days to avoid the default. 
As the time had passed and Mr Y hadnt cleared the outstanding balance or made an 
agreement with them, apart from a hold on his account which wouldnt prevent the default 
from happening, then Barclaycard were fair to register the default, even if Mr Y doesnt think 
they were. So while other businesses may have made a decision to arrange a payment plan 
with Mr Y  that doesnt mean that Barclaycard has to here.
Ive also thought about what Mr Y has said about a communication gap with Barclaycard. 
But as I mentioned in my provisional decision - as Mr Y has acknowledged himself, 
Barclaycard staff were working from home and this caused delays in speaking to them. But 
Im not persuaded that this would have an impact on whether a default would be registered 
or not. I say this as when Mr Y had spoken to Barclaycard in January, May and June, an 
arrangement for payment could not be agreed by the deadline given. So while call waiting 
times and a lack of available staff would be frustrating for Mr Y, Im not persuaded that it has 
had an impact on the default being registered. Mr Y. Barclaycard were clear on their default notice that an arrangement needed to be made to avoid a default and they gave a timeframe 
of when the arrangement needed to be in place and Mr Y was unable to arrange a payment 
plan within the timeframe given.
Im satisfied that Mr Y had every intention of making an arrangement to Barclaycard to try
and avoid a default being registered on his credit file. Hes provided the completed income
and expenditure form to me which shows he made an offer to pay them £100 a month. But
the expenditure form does show that he has more outgoings than income at the time it was
completed. Mr Y had told Barclaycard on the phone that he was expecting money in August
which was quite a long time from the deadline Barclaycard gave him. Mr Y had already
missed seven payments when the default was registered. So I think its very unlikely that
Barclaycard would have been able to make an agreement regardless of a completed income
and expenditure form being received by Barclaycard before the deadline they gave.
In summary, Mr Ys response hasnt changed my view and my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision. I know Mr Y will be disappointed with the 
decision, but I hope he understands my reasons. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman