DRN-3966824
The complaint
Mr G, through his representative, complains that Madison CF UK Limited, trading as 118 118 
Money (Madison), lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Using information Madison gave us here is a brief loan table.
Loan Approved Amount Term
(months)Payments 
(month)Paid
1 18 November 2017 £1,500 24 £143.17 4 November 2018
2 4 November 2018 £1,903.33 24 £189.74 1 May 2019
Madison responded to Mr Gs complaint with its final response letter (FRL) dated
21 December 2022. It did not consider that it had acted irresponsibly. But it went on to offer
a good will payment in relation to distress and inconvenience for the second loan and to
remove any adverse information about loan 2 from Mr Gs credit file. That was to be in full
and final settlement of the complaint. Mr G did not accept this offer.
After Mr Gs representative had referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service
one of our adjudicators looked at it. She considered that Madison had done the correct
checks and there was no evidence of the loans being unaffordable. Mr G had used the loans
from Madison to consolidate other loans and had reduced his monthly outgoings. So, she did
not think that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr Gs representative wrote to say that it disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me
to decide. 
On 27 February 2023 I issued a provisional decision giving reasons why I planned to uphold 
the complaint. Both parties were given time tor respond. Neither has responded. 
So, I set out below  in the same terms as those set out in my provisional decision, my final 
determination on this complaint. 
And Ive done that because without any further comments or evidence to review then my 
original and provisional findings stand as I have no reason to depart from them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, what I need to
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are
whether Madison completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown
that Mr G wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that Madison did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr G and that
he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required Madison to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Madison had to think about whether repaying
the loans would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Mr G. In
practice this meant that Madison had to ensure that making the payments to the loans
wouldnt cause Mr G undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Madison to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g.
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more
thorough:
- the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated
- refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,
 unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Loan 1
Mr G had informed Madison he was single and living at home with his parents when he
applied for both loans. The first loan he applied for was £1,500. He declared that he was
working full time and had very little outgoings (£30 for food) and earned £1,400 a month.
Madison carried out a credit check. I have seen a copy of that. 
The headline information indicated that Mr G did not have much outstanding debt, around 
£1,780 but he had had 40 accounts, of which nine were active and he had opened ten 
accounts in the six months leading up to that credit search done November 2017. The 
results registered Mr G had experienced two defaults in the previous 36 months.
The results included a section for MODA which is a type of search providing the very latest
information about the customer. For Mr G it showed hed taken a loan of £200 just a few
weeks earlier on 14 October 2017 and he was paying £60 a month for it. And another for£150 taken a few days before on 10 November 2017  the next payment due was £45. He
also had three other credit accounts open, which had commenced in June, September, and
October 2017 with the scheduled next payments due of £66, £125, and £63.
Mr G had three other loans due to cost him £102, £95 and £191 each month. These all
added up to be around £747 each month. This represented about around half his income.
The results did reveal defaults from June 2015 for £57 and December 2015 for £162 both of
which were debt collection agencies. And whilst I appreciate that these were over two years
before Mr G approached Madison, the fact that they were with debt collection agencies was
additional evidence to suggest Mr G had got into money troubles in the past.
While it may not have been wise for Mr G to continually take and pay off loan after loan, Ive
thought carefully about whether this would necessarily have led to an alert to Madison. Or to
have prompted it to have done something further before lending. Mr Gs accounts did not
overtly show recent poor management but it did show a lot of loans having to be managed
by Mr G.
Ive decided that Madison ought to have done more. And even with the information from
Mr G that he was going to use the Madison money to consolidate the debts, usually Id
expect a lender to pay off some or all those other debts directly and pay the balance to the
customer. Here, it seems that did not happen. The full £1,500 credit Mr Gs bank account on
20 November 2017.
And I consider that the combination of the extremely and unrealistically small expenditure
declaration of £30, plus the credit file details Madison obtained enough to prompt Madison to
at least get further details about his salary, genuine household and monthly expenses and
why he was taking so many loans almost on a regular, rolling basis.
One way to obtain additional and more detailed information about Mr Gs financial situation
was to have reviewed some bank account statements. And with the information Madison
already had, with the application for £1,500 and the proposed term of the loan being
24 months, then I do not think that would have been disproportionate even though it was
Mr Gs first loan with Madison.
So, I have reviewed the bank account statement for Mr G that I have for the period leading 
up to the approval of loan 1. I can see that he paid to a family member about £450 a month 
which I think was very likely to have been his board and lodging payment to his parents. In 
any event, I can see this was a regular payment to that same family member in the months
leading up to loan 1. And I have noted that his salary was lower than the £1,400 he had
declared.
Plus, I can see the extensive number of loans and repayments Mr G had to make which was
similar information from Mr Gs credit file, even though I appreciate that all credit file
information is weeks behind the true picture. And it revealed a pattern of regular high cost
short term and instalment lending followed by large amounts of repayments towards them
each month.
Just using the information revealed on the credit file Madison had before loan 1 (which
I appreciate was a few weeks behind the true picture) then the £747 Mr G appeared to have
owed other lenders at that stage, plus the £450 he was paying to the family member
regularly plus the £30 he declared then I do not think he could afford the repayments for
loan 1. He would have been left with very little and I do not consider that a responsible 
lending decision. And although the indication was that he was going to consolidate loans then I say two points 
on that:
- I think that Madison ought to have checked Mr G did do, or had arrangements to 
repay, the other loans rather than simply pay out the £1,500 to him and
- the financial behaviour pattern revealed suggests that Mr G was simply borrowing to 
repay other borrowing on a rolling basis which does not lead me to think Mr G was 
consolidating his debts and therefore does not persuade me that he was likely to 
approach his existing debts in that way going forward.
I uphold the complaint about loan 1.
Loan 2
Mr G repaid the loan repayments for loan 1 without any concerns and a year later applied for
a further loan with Madison. It was for £850 and he gave much the same information hed
given to Madison before. And it seems he took a loan for £1,903.33 of which £1,053.33 was
used to pay off loan 1 leaving Mr G with £850 cash as new lending. Mr G was credited with
about £664 as an interest rebate linked to loan 1. This agreement for loan 2 meant he was
going to be paying more each month and for a further 24 months.
Madison carried out another credit search and his total indebtedness had increased to
£3,640. He had 61 accounts of which 12 were active and seven had been opened in the
previous six months. Which meant that Mr G had opened at least seven accounts since
taking loan 1 with Madison. And although his total debt figure was not high it had doubled.
No further defaults had been incurred, but Mr W was constantly requiring new credit to repay
older debts and that was a classic sign of unsustainable borrowing.
Overall, I think that Madison ought to have at least checked that Mr G had done what he said
he was going to do with the funds from loan 1  consolidate existing debts. And I say that
because Mr G had said the same thing on the loan 2 application (that he needed it to
consolidate debts) and his credit file revealed a 100% increase in his debt since it had
approved loan 1 to Mr G.
And if Madison had done that it would have seen that he was regularly paying money to that
same family member which I think was board and lodging and that was now £500 a month.
Plus, Mr G had continued his behaviour pattern of constantly taking out loans and repaying
them almost on a rolling basis. Therefore, his plan to use the loan 1 funds to consolidate his
lending had not been adhered to and Madison knew this as the credit file showed hed taken
seven new loans since he had taken loan 1. And he was returning for more money a year
into the two year loan 1 term.
The sums Mr G was repaying to other lenders in or around October 2018 (just before loan 2
was approved) were high and overall, I do not consider he could afford loan 2.
I uphold Mr Gs complaint about loan 2.
In light of my provisional and now my final findings, I do not need to address the fact 
Madison had already made a goodwill offer in relation to loan 2.
Putting things right
I do not think Madison ought to have lent to Mr G and so I direct that Madison to do as 
follows:refund all interest and charges Mr G paid on loans 1 and 2;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about the loans from Mr Gs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Madison to take off tax from this interest. It must give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Gs complaint and I direct that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118 118 
Money, does as I have outlined in the putting things right part of my decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman