DRN-3667444
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that QIC Europe Limited (QIC) declined their claim for storm damage 
under their buildings insurance. 
The policy was in joint names but, for ease, Ive referred only to Mr T throughout my 
decision.
What happened
During a named storm, Mr T found that water had leaked through his roof and damaged the 
interior of his home. He made a claim under his buildings policy. QICs surveyor took photos 
of the damage but they concluded that the damage was mainly caused by poor 
workmanship. QIC declined Mr Ts claim.
Mr T complained to QIC. He remained of the view that his roof was damaged during the 
storm and that QIC should cover his claim. QIC maintained its decision, so Mr T brought his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ts complaint because he didnt think QIC had shown that poor 
workmanship was the main cause of damage.
QIC didnt agree. It said the roof felt dislodged in the storm because it hadnt been attached 
properly to begin with.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ts complaint and Ill explain why.
I ask three questions when considering complaints about storm damage:
Was there a storm?
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
Ill address each question in turn.
Was there a storm?
This is not in dispute. The policy defines a storm as wind speeds of at least 55mph. The 
storm was a well-publicised and named storm, reaching wind speeds of 64mph in the area 
where Mr T lived. Im satisfied there was a storm.
Was the damage typical of that caused by a storm?
A storm with windspeeds of 64 mph typically causes widespread structural damage. In Mr 
Ts case, the felt roof covering lifted and rainwater penetrated the exposed roof. Having 
looked at the description of likely damage caused by winds of this speed on reputable online 
sites, Im satisfied that the damage to Mr Ts roof is typical of that caused by a storm.
The policy says, We will cover loss or damage caused by storm, and, Properties are 
designed to withstand all but the most extreme weather conditions. Damage caused by 
normal weather conditions is not covered by this policy.
Having considered these circumstances, its understandable that Mr T thought the storm 
caused the damage. And, based on the policy definition and cover available, it was 
reasonable for Mr T to make a claim for the damage to his roof.
At this point, QIC was responsible for either settling the claim or showing that a policy 
exclusion applied. 
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
QIC declined the claim relying on the following policy exclusion:
Poor workmanship
Loss or damage caused by poor workmanship, use of faulty materials (including 
latent defects) or poor design (a latent defect is a fault which exists but which only 
causes a problem at a later stage under certain conditions).
Ive thought carefully about QICs response and the reasons it gave for reaching that 
decision. QIC commented on the felt remaining on the roof around the edges, which it says 
is where damage is most often seen when a felt roof is reaching the end of its lifespan. Mr T 
said the roof was six years old. Nevertheless, QIC declined the claim for poor workmanship. 
But, having reviewed the evidence, I havent seen anything to persuade me that felt left 
around the edges of the roof is evidence only of poor workmanship.
QIC also said the roof felt mustnt have been bonded properly to the decking below. Thats 
because the whole felt covering had lifted. I understand QICs point but it hasnt provided 
any evidence of its assumption that the felt wasn't properly bonded. Going back to the earlier 
point, a storm of this strength typically causes widespread structural damage. QICs policy 
says a property should withstand all but the most extreme conditions. That implies, then, that 
properties wont necessarily withstand the extreme weather conditions seen here. Ive 
already concluded that the storm was one which wouldve caused widespread structural 
damage. So, on balance, Im satisfied that the storm was likely the main cause of the 
damage to Mr Ts roof because QIC hasnt presented me with any evidence to persuade me 
otherwise.
Putting things right
As Mr T needed to complete the roof repairs to prevent further damage and to minimise the 
impact on his young family, its no longer reasonable for QIC to inspect the roof further or to 
assess the claim against the remaining terms of the policy. Therefore, to put matters right, 
QIC should settle the claim in line with the policy by reimbursing Mr T for his evidenced 
repair costs, including redecorating the rooms damaged by the water ingress. In addition to 
this, QIC should pay Mr T 8% simple interest on the reimbursement of any valid repair costs 
hes already incurred.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and QIC 
Europe Limited must:
settle the claim in line with the policy by reimbursing Mr T for any receipted costs hes 
already incurred in repairing the damage, and covering the cost of any remaining 
repairs to the roof and interior decoration damage caused by the storm, and
pay 8% simple interest* on the valid, evidenced repair costs from the date Mr T paid 
them to the date QIC pays the reimbursement.
*If QIC Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr T a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman