DRN-4089700
The complaint
Mr B complains about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) responded 
to a water leak at his property under his home emergency policy.
References to DAS include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under the 
policy.
What happened
In October 2022 Mr B contacted DAS to report a water leak at his property and lodge a claim 
under his home emergency policy. DAS arranged for an engineer to attend to investigate the 
leak, which they did the following day. The engineer diagnosed the leak as coming from the 
water supply pipe into Mr Bs property. The engineer also said the leak wasnt causing any 
internal damage to Mr Bs property and there was a water supply into the property. DAS said 
the situation wasnt one they considered to be a home emergency and therefore any repair 
to the water supply pipe wouldnt be covered under the home emergency policy.
However, Mr B said hed been initially told the repair would be covered under the policy, only 
to then be told it wouldnt be covered. Having been told initially the repair would be covered, 
Mr B arranged for a repair to be carried out (at a cost of £320). When he was then told the 
repair (and therefore the cost hed incurred) wouldnt be covered, he complained to DAS.
In their final response, DAS confirmed their decision the repair wouldnt be covered under 
the policy, so they didnt uphold that aspect of the complaint. However, DAS accepted they 
hadnt provided Mr B with the level of service he would have expected to receive. They 
acknowledged the nature of the home emergency wasnt properly identified when he first 
contacted them to report the leak. In recognition of the poor service hed received, DAS 
apologised for any distress and inconvenience and offered £10 in compensation.
Unhappy at DASs final response, Mr B complained to this service. The main element of his 
complaint was hed been told by DAS to find someone to repair the leak (as DAS couldnt) 
and they would reimburse him. He wanted DAS to reimburse him for the £320 cost of repair 
hed incurred compensation for the time and trouble hed experienced.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding DAS had acted reasonably. 
She noted the sequence of events and that after the contractor attended the property 
(and confirmed the leak was on the driveway and not affecting the interior of the 
property) DAS told Mr B the leak wouldnt be covered under the home emergency 
policy. She thought this was reasonable but thought Mr B should have been told this 
sooner. In the circumstances, she thought DASs offer of £10 compensation was 
reasonable, as the delay in telling Mr B the leak wouldnt be covered under the home 
emergency policy would have caused some inconvenience to Mr B. While the home 
emergency policy wouldnt cover the leak (or the cost incurred by Mr B in fixing it) it 
might be something Mr B could contact his home insurer about.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. In disagreeing he set out his version of the sequence of events, 
including the visit from the DAS contractor to assess the leak, the contractor saying 
the drive would need to be dug up and there was an urgency given the drop in water 
pressure to the property. 
He said when he contacted DAS after the contractor attended, he was told they 
wouldnt be attending to locate and fix the leak as it wasnt covered under the policy. 
But after further discussion it was agreed Mr B would arrange for an engineer to fix 
the leak, and Mr B could claim reimbursement at a later date. Mr B engaged an 
engineer who excavated the drive, repaired a broken pipe, and reinstated the drive (at 
a cost of £320). Mr D didnt think £10 was adequate compensation for the 
inconvenience hed experienced. He also thought the leak should be covered as it 
was affecting the inside of his property (because of the falling water pressure)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether DAS has acted fairly towards Mr B.
The key issue in Mr Bs complaint is that he says he was told by DAS to find someone to 
repair the leak (as DAS couldnt) and they would reimburse him. DAS say the nature of the 
leak (it wasnt affecting the interior of the property and water was still being supplied to the 
property) means it wouldnt be considered as a home emergency and so wouldnt be 
covered under the policy. But they acknowledge the nature of the leak wasnt properly 
identified when he first contacted them to report it. Theyve apologised for any distress and 
inconvenience and offered £10 in compensation.
Ive thought about both views carefully, but on balance I think DAS have done enough to put 
things right in the circumstances of the case. I know Mr B will be disappointed by this 
conclusion, so Ill set out why Ive come to this view.
Looking at what happened, from the case notes provided by DAS, when Mr B first contacted 
them to tell them about the leak, its clear the leak is affecting the driveway of the property. It 
isnt inside the property (or causing damage to the interior of the property). But the DAS call 
handler assigns a contractor to visit the property and tells Mr B they should be able to deal 
with the issue (a leaking pipe). It would have been reasonable for Mr B to interpret this to 
mean DAS were accepting the leak would be covered. It then seems that when the 
contractor visited, the nature of the leak meant DAS reconsidered their position and said it 
wasnt a home emergency they would cover under the policy (the case notes indicate it 
would (potentially) be a buildings insurance issue.
Ive then considered whether it was reasonable for DAS to change their position, to say the 
leaking pipe wasnt a home emergency. Looking at the policy terms and conditions, theres 
the following definition of Emergency:
The sudden or unexpected occurrence of an insured incident during the Period Of 
Insurance which necessitates immediate corrective action to:
Prevent damage or further damage to the insured property; or
Make the insured property secure; or
Relieve unreasonable discomfort, risk or difficulty to an insured person.
While this definition is subject to interpretation, I dont think it was unreasonable for DAS to 
consider a leak affecting the driveway of Mr Bs property  but not causing damage to the 
interior (or exterior) of the property itself or affecting the water supply to the property  wouldnt be considered an emergency. Had the leak been inside the property (or affecting 
the interior of the property itself) and so causing damage, I think that would have been 
different. 
Mr B says a drop in water pressure was affecting the interior of the property, so should be 
covered under the policy. However, looking at the definition of what constitutes and 
emergency, I dont think a drop in water pressure would be included. I say that because 
water was still being supplied to the property (albeit at a lower pressure) and no damage 
was being caused to the property by the leak. So, I dont agree with Mr Bs view.
And looking at the definition of insured property, while driveways arent mentioned, it states 
attached or integral garages are included  but walls, gates, hedges, fences, outbuildings, 
detached garages arent included. I think its reasonable to infer that driveways would be 
likely to fall into the latter category. So, they wouldnt be considered part of the insured 
property under the policy.
Ive then considered the sequence of events. When the contractor attended Mr Bs property, 
he confirmed the leak was affecting the driveway (not the property itself or its interior). To 
locate and repair the leak would require the driveway to be dug up. DAS contacted Mr B the 
following day to confirm that because trace and access were required (to locate the leak) he 
would need to contact his buildings insurer (the home emergency cover was a separate 
section within Mr Bs home insurance policy). 
Ive also considered Mr Bs version of events. They accord with DASs version up to the 
point they contacted Mr B the day after the contractor attended the property. Mr B says he 
was told they wouldnt be attending to locate and fix the leak as it wasnt covered under the 
policy. Which matches what DAS say. However, where the accounts vary is Mr Ds point that 
after further discussion it was agreed Mr B would arrange for an engineer to fix the leak, and 
Mr B could claim reimbursement at a later date. I havent been provided with a call recording 
to verify what was said, although it seems unlikely that DAS would initially say the leak 
wasnt covered  then change their position later in the same discussion. And they confirmed 
subsequently they wouldnt cover the leak (after which Mr B made his complaint). So, Im not 
persuaded this means DAS did agree to reimburse the cost of fixing the leak.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded DAS acted fairly and reasonably in saying 
the nature of the leak meant it wasnt an emergency that would be covered under the home 
emergency policy.
However, given what happened when Mr B first contacted DAS to report the leak, I think 
DAS could have reached their revised position from the outset, rather than (at least) giving 
the impression to Mr B the leak would be covered under the home emergency policy. DASs 
case notes (and their final response) confirm they accept they should have made the 
position clearer to Mr B during the initial contact to report the leak.
DAS awarded £10 compensation, which Mr B says is inadequate given what happened and 
the inconvenience to him. However, Im not persuaded the level of inconvenience was 
significant. And while Ive concluded DAS acted reasonably in saying the leak wouldnt have 
been covered by the home emergency policy, it wouldnt have precluded (as DAS say they 
advised Mr B) Mr B contacting the insurer of his buildings (home) insurance policy. Taking all 
these factors into account, I think DAS have acted fairly and reasonably in their 
compensation offer, so I wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman