DRN-3210215
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way Howserv Limited (trading as Avanti Travel Insurance) 
administered their annual travel insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr and Mrs H took out an annual travel insurance policy through Avanti. The 
policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill call E. Mr and Mrs H declared a number of medical 
conditions. They chose not to take out cruise cover.
Mr and Mrs H booked a holiday abroad in June 2019. They were due to travel between 9 
February and 2 March 2020. Their holiday included two river cruises. In October 2019, Mr 
and Mrs H declared further medical conditions to Avanti, which E agreed to cover.
Mr H subsequently began to suffer from breathlessness and visited his GP, who referred him 
to a cardiologist for tests. Mrs H called Avanti on 30 December 2019 both to request an 
upgrade to include cruise cover and also to declare Mr Hs cardiology referral.  
Avanti referred Mrs Hs request and declaration to E. It stated that it was prepared to offer 
cruise cover, but that it would need to exclude cover for all of Mr Hs medical conditions, 
including the undiagnosed condition. It said that Mr and Mrs H should get back in touch once 
Mr H had been given a diagnosis and it would consider whether it could add medical cover 
back on to the policy. And E also told Avanti that as Mr and Mrs H didnt already have cruise 
cover on the policy, any claim for their holiday wouldnt be covered if they chose to cancel it.
On this basis, Mrs H agreed to take up the cruise cover, meaning that Mr Hs medical 
conditions were excluded from cover. Amended policy paperwork was sent to them which 
set out the changes to their cover.
Unfortunately, Mr H was later admitted to hospital and underwent surgery. So the trip had to 
be cancelled. Mr and Mrs H say that they werent able to make a claim on the policy and 
were left substantially out of pocket. 
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with Avantis administration of their policy. They felt that the call 
handler had cancelled their existing contract, rather than updating it. They didnt think Avanti 
had properly explained the implications of amending the policy. They said that if it had, they 
wouldnt have made the changes to the contract and theyd still have been covered under 
the original policy for the non-cruise elements of their trip. And they didnt think Avanti had 
highlighted the fact that the policy stated that policyholders in situations such as these could 
make a cancellation claim.
Avanti acknowledged that its call handler couldve given Mrs H clearer information about her 
options in December 2019. But it didnt think this had caused Mr and Mrs H to lose out. 
Thats because, even if the call handler had pointed out the full repercussions of excluding 
Mr Hs medical conditions, at the time Mrs H had called, Mr and Mrs H didnt have cruise 
cover in place. So E wouldnt have covered any cancellation claim. However, it did agree to 
pay Mr and Mrs H a pro-rata refund of their premium.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy with Avantis administration of their policy and they asked 
us to look into their complaint. Avanti subsequently recalculated the amount of the pro-rata 
refund due to Mr and Mrs H. It increased its offer to £200.43, which represented the total 
price of the policy, divided by the total cover length, multiplied by the days E wasnt on risk.
Our investigator thought Avanti had treated Mr and Mrs H fairly. She felt the evidence 
showed that Avanti had updated Mr and Mrs Hs original policy, rather than cancelling it and 
reissuing another one. And she pointed out that the decision to remove cover for Mr Hs 
medical conditions had been Es - it wasnt down to Avanti. Itd also been E which had told 
Avanti that as Mr and Mrs H didnt already have cruise cover in place, it wouldnt cover any 
claims for their trip. She didnt think Avanti had been responsible for either of these 
decisions. And she concluded that even if Avanti hadnt given clear enough information 
about the potential implications on Mr and Mrs Hs cover, this hadnt caused them to lose 
out. In the circumstances, she felt Avantis offer of a pro-rata premium refund was fair.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed. They stressed their complaint was about Avanti, not E. They 
maintained that the policy had been cancelled, not amended. They felt Avanti had acted in 
contravention of the policy terms. Mr Hs ultimate diagnosis had been down to one of his 
already declared and accepted conditions. If Avanti had waited for the diagnosis, it wouldve 
been covered by the original policy. So they felt Avanti shouldve discussed the option of 
keeping their existing policy without changes and only updating it once a diagnosis had been 
given.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I think Avantis offer is fair and 
reasonable and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs H that while Ive summarised the background to their 
complaint and their detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all theyve said and sent 
us. In making my decision though, I havent commented on each point theyve made and nor 
do our rules dont require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key 
issues.
What I am able to consider 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H have stressed that their complaint isnt about Es actions. 
This decision will only consider whether Avanti did anything wrong in the way it administered 
Mr and Mrs Hs policy. But it is important that I make clear Avantis role here. It was 
responsible for selling Mr and Mrs H their travel insurance policy and sending the policy 
paperwork on Es behalf. It was also responsible for making mid-term adjustments to the 
policy  such as adding optional add-on covers on Es behalf. Its also required to provide 
clear and accurate information to both E and the policyholder.
But Avanti is not responsible for assessing the risk of a claim, for deciding on what terms to 
offer cover or whether its prepared to accept cover for a policyholders medical conditions. 
Those decisions are entirely Es responsibility. Avanti also has no power to decide whether 
or not claims should be paid and in what circumstances. Again, thats Es responsibility. So I 
cannot hold Avanti responsible for any decision E made with regard to the terms on which it 
would offer Mr and Mrs H cruise cover; excluding Mr Hs medical conditions or whether it would pay any potential cancellation claim. It seems to me that many of Mr and Mrs Hs 
concerns do turn on Es actions rather than anything Avanti did. And it remains open to them 
to get in touch with E to make a complaint about those actions should they now wish to do 
so.
Avantis administration of the policy
Theres no dispute that in March 2019, when Mr and Mrs H took out their annual travel 
insurance policy through Avanti, they didnt want to include optional cruise cover. The policy 
certificate Avanti sent them clearly stated that they didnt have any cruise cover in place. 
This meant the policy they took out wouldnt cover any cruise-related claims. The holiday Mr 
and Mrs H booked in June 2019 did include two river cruises. 
However, Mr and Mrs H didnt call to add cruise cover to their policy until 30 December 2019 
 around six months after they booked the trip. Based on what E told Avanti, it wouldnt have 
paid any cancellation claim for this trip between the booking of it and the date cruise cover 
was added to the policy. 
It seems reasonably likely (although I cant say with certainty) that had Mr and Mrs H simply 
asked Avanti to add cruise cover to the policy on 30 December 2019, E is likely to have 
agreed to this change in return for an additional premium. However, during this call, Mrs H 
also told Avanti about Mr Hs cardiology referral, which resulted in Avanti referring the policy 
on to E. I think it was appropriate for Avanti to pass on this information to E. At this point, E 
told Avanti that it would offer Mr and Mrs H cruise cover, but that cover for all of Mr Hs 
medical conditions, including his cardiology referral, would be excluded. It also told Avanti 
that as Mr and Mrs Hs holiday included cruises, any cancellation claim they made wouldnt 
be covered by their existing policy.
Avantis call handler passed on the information theyd been given by E, which is what Id 
have expected them to do. I dont think Avanti misled Mrs H as to what her options were or 
provided inaccurate information. It was simply the case that E had stated that in the absence 
of cruise cover, Mr and Mrs H wouldnt be covered by their policy for the trip theyd booked. 
I note that Avanti acknowledges that Mrs H couldve been given clearer information about 
the implications of cover for Mr Hs conditions being excluded from the insurance policy. And 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs H feel strongly that their attention shouldve been drawn to Es 
policy terms relating to a policyholders change in health during the life of the policy. These 
say that in the event that E is unable to continue to offer cover or a policyholder is unwilling 
to pay any additional premium, the policyholder will be entitled to make a cancellation claim 
or receive a pro-rata refund of premium.
Having listened to the calls, I agree these options werent made clear to Mrs H. So I agree 
that Avanti couldve provided her with clearer information. However, in order for me to make 
a compensatory award for any failings on Avantis part, I need to be satisfied that those 
mistakes led to Mr and Mrs H losing out and suffering detriment.
In this case, Im not persuaded that any information failings on Avantis part did cause Mr 
and Mrs H to lose out. I say that because E had already told Avanti that because Mr and Mrs 
H didnt have existing cruise cover in place on 30 December 2019, it wouldnt pay any 
cancellation claim. So even if Avanti had referred Mrs H to this policy term, it seems that E 
wouldve refused to settle any cancellation claim she and Mr H made at this point. Mr and 
Mrs H now say that they shouldve been given the option to leave their policy as it was. But 
as Ive set out, if the policy hadnt been amended to include cruise cover, then E says it 
wouldnt have paid any claim. So theyd still have been out of pocket for their trip costs. And 
now Avanti has agreed to pay Mr and Mrs H a pro-rata refund of their premium calculated from 31 December 2019  which is in line with the policy terms Ive summarised above.
Mr and Mrs H have also mentioned that if theyd known changing the policy would mean 
they wouldnt be covered for Mr Hs medical conditions, theyd have left the policy in place, 
but shopped around for additional cruise cover. While I cant know what would have 
happened, most, if not all, travel insurers decline to offer cover for a policyholders 
undiagnosed conditions or where theyre under medical referral. So I think its unlikely that 
Mr and Mrs H wouldve found a policy which did offer cruise cover and which wouldve 
included cover for Mr Hs clinical referral.
In the circumstances then, I simply dont find that Mr and Mrs H have shown that theyve 
suffered any financial loss as a result of any information failings on Avantis part. Im not 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs H wouldve been able to make a successful claim on the policy 
even if the call handler had pointed out all of the relevant information. Based on what E told 
Avanti, I find it unlikely that it wouldve accepted and paid any claim in the circumstances. So 
Im not directing Avanti to step into Es shoes and pay Mr and Mrs Hs cancellation costs.
It's clear that Mr and Mrs H feel that the call handler cancelled their original policy, which led 
to this situation. I dont agree. Mr and Mrs H have been issued with three schedules during 
the life of the policy  one in March 2019, the second in October 2019 following the new 
medical declaration and the third in December 2019, following the policy update. Both the 
October and December 2019 schedules show the same policy number as the first schedule. 
This indicates these schedules are for the same policy number as the original. The 
schedules simply state 1 and 2 after the original policy number. This would suggest these 
schedules were simply issued after the original policy was amended. In any event though, I 
dont think its material whether the original policy was amended or cancelled. Thats 
because in either case, E has stated that the original policy wouldnt have paid out for the 
cancellation of Mr and Mrs Hs trip.
As Ive set out, Avanti has now told us it will pay Mr and Mrs H a pro-rata refund of their 
premium, backdated to 31 December 2019  the date E excluded medical cover for Mr H 
and the policy was updated. Its shared its calculation and Im satisfied its worked out the 
refund fairly. I think this is a fair outcome to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint in all the 
circumstances. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Avantis offer of a pro-rata refund 
of premium is fair and reasonable.
I direct Howserv Limited (trading as Avanti Travel Insurance) to pay Mr and Mrs H a pro-rata 
refund of their premium calculated using the actual price they paid for the policy, divided by 
the total length of the policy and multiplied by the days that werent used.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman