DRN-4114344
The complaint
Miss M complains about the actions of PrePay Technologies Limited trading as PrePay 
Solutions regarding her electronic money account. 
What happened
Miss M opened an e-money account with Monese, one of PrePays agents, in March 2021. 
She used the account to pay for various purchases online and via the accounts debit card. 
Miss M later upgraded from the free account to a fee-paying one and paid a fee of £49.95 in 
December 2021. 
In November that year Miss M had complained to Monese that she didnt recognise a 
transaction on her account. Moneses card provider, PrePay, investigated this but didnt take 
any action as they found the transaction wasnt fraudulent. 
Miss M was unhappy with her experience and spoke to Monese again when a second 
payment was taken in May 2022. Miss M confirmed that these werent fraudulent payments 
but fees for a subscription shed cancelled. On 21 June Monese asked Miss M for evidence 
that the subscription had been cancelled prior to the charge dates so that it could investigate 
whether or not to raise a refund request via its card provider with the company that runs the 
card network, Mastercard. 
Card providers like PrePay can ask Mastercard for a refund or chargeback on behalf of their 
customer if theres a problem with the goods or services theyve paid for. The rules for 
requesting a refund are made by the card scheme and refunds arent guaranteed. There are 
also strict time limits for making such requests. The scheme is voluntary in that card 
providers arent required to ask for refunds and a customer doesnt have a right to request 
one. However, wed generally consider it fair of the provider to offer this if a request had a 
reasonable chance of being successful.
I understand that Miss M didnt provide the information Monese required to raise a refund 
request. She told Monese on 11 October that she now had proof of a conversation with the 
service provider about the subscription. Monese replied to say that it was now outside 
Mastercards time limits to submit a refund request in relation to the two payments. 
Miss M complained about other transactions and events. She asked for a refund of a 
payment made in December 2021. It transpired that this payment was made through another 
electronic payment provider and Monese told her to direct her complaint there. 
Miss M also wished to have the number on her virtual account card match that of her 
physical card. Shed ordered a new physical card as she was worried about fraudulent 
payments from her account. Monese explained that its physical cards were different to its 
virtual cards and cancelling one didnt affect the other. It suggested that Miss M could block 
her virtual card in its software application at any time. Miss M said that even if she could 
freeze her virtual card, she needed to be able to purchase things online and shouldnt have 
to worry about freezing and unfreezing her card. 
Miss M also complained that she could not speak with an advisor when she telephoned and 
found that extremely aggravating. She said, for example, that on several occasions shed 
waited for an hour on hold to be told that the lines were closed. Miss M told Monese that she 
suffered with her mental health and because she had previously been a victim of fraud she 
found it very stressful when she couldnt get through on the phone. 
Monese sent Miss M a final response to her complaint on 15 June 2022. It didnt uphold all 
her complaint points but it did acknowledge that it could have provided better customer 
service to her. It offered Miss M a refund of the annual account fee shed paid of £49.95 and 
£50 compensation for the stress the matter had caused. Monese explained to Miss M that 
she could contact it by chat or email to cancel her virtual card, after which she could set up a 
new virtual card in the account application directly.
Miss M didnt accept this resolution but she told Monese in July 2022 to apply the refund of 
£49.95 for the account upgrade and downgrade the account. Monese replied that it was 
waiting for her acceptance of its offer before applying the refund.
In November 2022, Miss M raised another payment issue with her account relating to a 
payment for a hotel stay in September. She had been charged more than she should have 
been and wished Monese to request a refund of the overpayment. Upon investigation 
Monese decided it didnt have enough evidence from Miss M to successfully request a 
refund and so didnt pursue this. 
Miss M brought her complaint to us regarding all of the above in December 2022. She also 
said that Monese didnt treat her fairly by not offering her the option to discuss things over 
the phone. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Ms complaint. They didnt find that Monese had gotten 
anything wrong in how it dealt with Miss Ms refund requests. Miss M hadnt provided the 
information Monese needed to raise a refund request for her subscription fees paid in 
November 2021 and May 2022 until October 2022. Monese could potentially have raised  
refund request then because Miss M was still receiving the service and so it might not have 
been outside of Mastercards time limits. However, it wasnt likely a refund would have been 
agreed by Mastercard with the information Miss M had provided and so she didnt lose out 
even though Monese didnt take the request further.
Our investigator also concluded that Monese hadnt gotten anything wrong regarding 
Miss Ms other disputed payments. The December 2021 payment had been made to another 
electronic payment provider and the funds were then used for a purchase. In these 
circumstances, Monese couldnt request a refund on her behalf. Miss M would need to 
request help from the other provider. Finally, although Miss M said shed agreed a price 
reduction for her hotel stay in September 2022 she didnt have anything in writing to confirm 
this. Monese didnt get anything wrong by not raising a refund request for that payment due 
to having insufficient evidence.  
Our investigator agreed that the customer service Monese provided could have been better. 
They found that Miss Ms experience was made worse when Monese didnt provide her with 
the refund it had offered in its final response letter and charged her a second annual account 
fee in December 2022. They recommended that Monese refund the fees Miss M had paid so 
far, in other words two lots of £49.95, along with £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the matter had caused to her. 
Monese responded to say that it had now returned these fees to Miss M and downgraded 
her account to the free version. However, it hadnt yet paid her compensation and felt that £50 was a fair award for the distress caused. Monese asked for the complaint to come to an 
ombudsman to decide and its come to me. 
Miss M shared with us in December 2022 that she has a specific condition which hinders her 
ability to read and write. She explained that she would have found it easier to interact with 
Monese over the telephone and she doesnt think it provided an appropriate level of support 
for her or for anyone else with a similar condition. Our investigator found that Miss M hadnt 
told Monese about her condition or her communication needs so it was unaware of these 
until we shared this information in our views. Weve let Miss M know that she would need to 
speak with Monese in the first instance if she wished to raise a complaint about this. So I 
havent considered this aspect of her experience with Monese.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of the case are known to both parties so I wont set out what happened in further 
detail. I want to reassure Miss M and Monese that I have reviewed all the information 
available to me and taken into consideration everything thats been said. I appreciate that 
this will be disappointing for Miss M but I am not upholding her complaint she raised about 
the disputed transactions. I dont think Monese got anything wrong in its handling of these 
refund requests which meant she lost out, as Ill explain. 
November 2021 and May 2022 subscription payments
Miss M told Monese in October 2022 that she had evidence of her attempts to cancel the 
subscription in December 2021 and May 2022. Monese told Miss M that it was outside of the 
time limits set by Mastercard to raise a chargeback request, this being with 120 days of the 
transaction settlement date in the case of a disputed recurring transaction. The evidence 
Miss M was able to provide was a transcript of a webchat exchange with the service provider 
in September 2022 in which she referred to cancellation attempts in December 2021 and 
May 2022. Theres no confirmation by the provider in this exchange that Miss M made a 
cancellation request. Even if Monese was within the time limits, I wouldnt consider it treated 
Miss M unfairly by declining to process this request on the basis of insufficient evidence. 
December 2021 payment
This payment was made to a merchant via another electronic payment provider and Monese 
told her to direct her complaint there. It said that it was responsible for the funds reaching the 
payment provider but that provider was then responsible for any onward transaction. I dont 
think this was an unfair response. Monese would be essentially asking the other payment 
provider to facilitate a chargeback process on Miss Ms behalf, which she could do directly, 
and the provider could potentially offer her alternative refund methods.
September 2022 payment
Miss M told Monese in November that shed been charged the full price for a hotel stay and 
had agreed with the manager that she would be charged half the cost. Monese asked for 
evidence of the agreed price but Miss M was unable to provide anything in writing that 
showed what had been agreed. Ive reviewed the information Miss M sent to Monese about 
this transaction. This shows that Miss M was offered a discount on future bookings because 
of her dissatisfaction with her experience. There isnt anything in the information Ive seen 
which says that Miss M was offered a reduction in price for her September visit. I dont consider that Monese treated Miss M unfairly when it declined to process a request on the 
basis that the evidence wasnt sufficient. 
Compensation
In its final response to Miss M in June 2022 Monese offered to pay her £25 to reflect the lack 
of service shed experienced as its response times werent ideal. It also offered to refund the 
account fee of £49.95. 
In her response Miss M shared with Monese that she was taking medication for two mental 
health conditions. She said  I have gone through periods where people have attempted to 
take my money fraudulently and I have been unable to contact you via the phone when I 
have been panicking. I suffer with [two mental health conditions] which I am medicated for 
and therefore considered a vulnerable customer. In addition to this stress I have long wait 
periods on the phone which cut off after an hour and no way to speak to anyone directly. 
Monese said it appreciated that the situation had been stressful and offered Miss M a further 
£25 in recognition of this. 
Miss M said in response in July that she would refer her complaint to us and asked Monese 
to downgrade the account and refund the fee. Miss M asked Monese in an email in October 
why the refund and compensation had not been paid. Miss M said to us in December 2022 
that not only had her complaint been going on for a long time but Monese hadnt 
downgraded the account or refunded the fees and shed been charged another annual 
account fee.  
Monese said it didnt carry out its offer of refund or compensation because Miss M didnt 
agree with the complaints outcome therefore it took no action. In response to our 
investigators recommendations sent on the 24 March 2023 Monese downgraded the 
account and refunded the two account fees but didnt feel any compensation beyond £50 
was appropriate because Miss M hadnt accepted the resolution. Monese was aware of 
Miss Ms mental health conditions by June 2022 and it acknowledged that its lack of service 
had impacted on her and offered her compensation for this. Ive considered whether this 
amount fully reflects the impact on Miss M. 
We have an approach which Ive borne in mind alongside everything else when making this 
decision. There isnt a specific calculation for awards to compensate for the emotional 
impact of errors. As set out on our website, a small monetary award of less than £100 could 
fairly compensate a one-off incident or occurrence such as a small administrative error or a 
short delay, as long as they cause minimal impact and are put right quickly. I cant say that 
this is what happened here. 
I think Monese should have downgraded Miss Ms account when she requested this and 
should not have charged a second account fee especially as it was aware of Miss Ms 
particular circumstances by June 2022 and the potential for any further issues to cause her 
greater distress. Our investigator recommended an increase in compensation to £100 and I 
think an award of this amount would be more appropriate in this case. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss M, Monese should now pay her a total of £100 
compensation, in addition to the refund of her account fees which I understand has  
happened. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above Im upholding Miss Ms complaint about PrePay 
Technologies Limited trading as PrePay Solutions in part and it now needs to put things right 
as Ive set out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman