DRN-3443688
The complaint
Mr F and Miss H are unhappy that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has declined their travel insurance 
claim. Theyre also unhappy with the service provided by AWP in the handling of their claim.
Any reference to AWP includes all its agents.
What happened
Mr F and Miss H took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 2 March 2020. The policy 
started on 15 August 2020 and ended on 29 August 2020 and was underwritten by AWP.
They were due to travel in August 2020 but due to the uncertainty surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic in June 2020, they decided to cancel their trip. Theyd paid a deposit towards their 
holiday and were required to pay the full amount in June 2020. 
Mr F and Miss H therefore submitted a claim to AWP for the cost of the deposit they lost. 
AWP declined the claim. It said Mr F and Miss H cancelled their trip in June 2020 and at the 
time there was advice in place from the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office 
(FCDO)  formerly the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) - against all but essential 
travel to their intended destination. But that advice changed for travelling in August 2020 and 
the travel ban had been lifted for Mr F and Miss Hs dates of travel in August 2020. AWP 
said there was no cover for claiming the cost of the deposit under the terms and conditions 
of Mr F and Miss Hs policy. 
Unhappy with AWP, Mr F and Miss H referred their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it. He thought AWP hadnt declined the claim unfairly or 
unreasonably and didnt uphold this part of the complaint. He recommended however £100 
compensation for the delays caused by AWP in handling the claim. 
AWP didnt respond to our investigators opinion, so Mr F and Miss Hs complaint has been 
referred to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms and conditions of Mr F and Miss Hs policy and the circumstances of their claim to 
decide whether AWP treated them fairly. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on the 
reasons for my decision.
The policy terms and conditions
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr F and Miss Hs policy as this forms 
the basis of their insurance contract. 
Page 24 of the policy booklet sets out the cover available in the event a trip is cancelled. 
This says:
Section B  Cancelling your trip 
What you are covered for under section B 
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for: 
1. Travel and accommodation expenses which you have paid or have agreed to pay 
under a contract and which you have not used and which you cannot get back; 
2. The cost of excursions (excluding excursions in respect of a cruise, which can be 
covered under section Q), tours and activities which you have paid for and which 
you cannot get back; 
3. And the cost of visas which you have paid for and which you cannot get back. 
Please note: If payment has been made using frequent flyer points, air miles, loyalty 
card points or similar loyalty card schemes, settlement of your claim will be based 
upon the lowest available published flight fare for the flight originally booked if they 
are non-transferable. 
We will provide this cover if the cancellation of your trip is necessary, unforeseen 
and unavoidable as a result of the following. 
1. You dying, becoming seriously ill or being injured. 
2. The death, serious illness or injury of a relative, business associate, a person 
who you have booked to travel with or a relative or friend living abroad who you had 
planned to stay with. The incident giving rise to the claim must have been 
unexpected and not something you were aware of when you purchased this 
insurance. Please see General exclusion number 1e and 1f for further rdetails. 
3. You being made redundant, as long as you had been working at your current 
place of employment for a minimum continuous period of two years, and that at the 
time of booking the trip or the date you purchased this insurance cover, whichever is 
earlier, you had no reason to believe that you would be made redundant. This cover 
would not apply if you are self-employed or accept voluntary redundancy. 
4. You or a person who you have booked to travel with being called for jury service 
(and your request to postpone service has been rejected) or attending court as a 
witness (but not as an expert witness). 
5. If the police or relevant authority needs you to stay in your home country after a 
fire, storm, flood, burglary or vandalism to your home or place of business within 
seven days before you planned to leave on your trip. 
6. If you are a member of the armed forces or police, fire, nursing or ambulance 
services which results in you having to stay in your home country due to an 
unforeseen emergency or if you are posted overseas unexpectedly. 
7. If after the time you booked your trip or purchased your policy, whichever is later, 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office advises against all (but essential) travel to 
your intended destination and no travel and accommodation expenses are 
refundable or no alternative trip or travel has been offered.
It's clear that cover is available under Mr F and Miss Hs policy if the FCDO advised against 
all but essential travel. This isnt in dispute. 
But the issue is that Mr F and Miss H cancelled their trip in June 2020. While there was a 
travel ban in June 2020, this had been lifted by the time they were due to travel. On 4 July 
2020, the country they were due to travel to, had been added to the list of countries exempt 
from the FCDO advice against all but essential travel. That meant travel to their intended 
destination was allowed in August 2020. So, in terms of the cancellation section of the policy above, in August 2020, there was no 
advice in place from the FCDO against all but essential travel. As such, there is no cover for 
the cost of the cancelled trip Mr F and Miss H incurred. 
And, had Mr F and Miss H not cancelled their trip in June 2020 and the trip had remained in 
place, the holiday provider would have been responsible for any loss or providing alternative 
options.  As Mr F and Miss H cancelled their trip of their own volition, under their travel 
policys terms and conditions, there is no cover for the situation they found themselves in. 
My understanding is that Mr F and Miss H contacted the travel provider and while it was able 
to offer an alternative date, it couldnt provide the same dates of travel for their whole group. 
But as they wanted to travel together, they chose to cancel their trip. I do understand the 
reasons for them doing so, but that doesnt mean that AWP would be responsible for 
refunding the loss they incurred. The policy doesnt provide cover for such an event.  
Additionally, the cover would further only be provided in the event that no alternative trip or 
travel has been offered. In this case, an alternative had been provided but this wasnt option 
Mr F and Miss H wanted to take.
In terms of the claim being declined by AWP, in the circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied this was fair and reasonable. 
Service provided in handling the claim
Ive looked at the service provided by AWP and expected response times in handling the 
claim. 
I must bear in mind that AWP was dealing with an unprecedented situation at the time and 
Covid-19 has had a significant impact on the travel insurance industry given the number of 
customers whose travel plans were impacted by the disruption to travel. And so, I dont think 
its unreasonable that this had some impact on their normal levels of service.
However, I appreciate that AWP took longer than expected, even after bearing in mind the 
overall impact due to Covid-19. AWP didnt respond in the expected timescales and Mr F 
and Miss H had to chase AWP for updates. 
AWP provided their response to the claim initially in November 2020. But following that, Mr F 
and Miss H didnt receive the next response until March 2021 which was AWPs final 
response to their complaint. I think this is outside of the expected timescales and even if I 
take into account that there was an overall impact because of the unprecedented situation, I 
dont think this was acceptable customer service. Delays were caused and communication 
was poor, which I think were avoidable. I think £100 is a fair compensation for the delays 
caused in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Conclusion
Overall, taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that AWP declined the claim 
unfairly or unreasonably. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could 
fairly ask AWP to do this. 
And in terms of the service AWP provided, I direct it to pay £100 compensation for the 
delays caused and the lack of communication in handling the claim. 
Putting things right
I direct AWP to pay £100 compensation for the handling of the claim.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Mr F and Miss Hs complaint against AWP 
P&C SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Miss H to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman