DRN-3231406
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Montgomery Charles Financial Management Ltd (MC) failed to 
provide them appropriate mortgage advice.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had a mortgage with a lender that was taken out in 2008. They were advised 
to take this mortgage by a third-party broker. The mortgage was on an interest only basis 
over a term of 15 years, with a variable interest rate and no early repayment charges 
applicable.
At the beginning of 2015, Mr and Mrs R approached MC for financial advice. They were 
particularly interested in reducing the interest rate that they were paying on their mortgage. 
At the time, the mortgaged property was being used as a business, a guest house, with 
Mr and Mrs R renting a property elsewhere. However, theyve said that their situation at the 
time was subject to change. And they were in a position where they mayve needed to move 
back into the mortgaged property  but would still run their business from part of it.
Mr and Mrs R paid MC £1,800. MC has said that this was half of an agreed fee to provide 
financial advice (which it has referred to as strategic business advice). It has said the other 
half wouldve been payable if Mr and Mrs R had proceeded with the advice. And that a 
separate fee wouldve been payable if it had provided mortgage advice. Mr and Mrs R have 
argued that the reason for the fee they paid was for MC to provide mortgage advice.
MC ultimately said it could not assist Mr and Mrs R with their mortgage. It said based on the 
information it gathered about their circumstances, in particular their income and the 
outstanding mortgage balance, there were no options available to them, due to affordability 
issues. It said there were no new lenders which would agree to a re-mortgage to the level 
they needed. And it said, their existing lender had indicated that it would also not provide a 
new mortgage. So, MC did not arrange a new mortgage for Mr and Mrs R.
In 2020, Mr and Mrs R contacted a different broker. And, through that broker, arranged a 
new mortgage product with their existing lender. They then complained to MC that it 
shouldve arranged a similar product transfer in 2015 and, because it hadnt, they had 
continued to pay a higher rate since then.
MC said it hadnt made an error. It said no other lenders had been willing to provide a re-
mortgage. And beyond an initial informal enquiry to Mr and Mrs Rs existing lender, it hadnt 
pursued matters further with it. MC said this was because the lender had indicated it could 
not offer a new mortgage. And MC believed, as Mr and Mrs R werent living in the 
mortgaged property but were instead using it commercially, the existing lender would not 
have agreed to any changes as Mr and Mrs R were not complying with the original 
agreement. And it felt taking things further couldve resulted in the lender requiring Mr and 
Mrs R to take a commercial mortgage. Which mightve been to their detriment. 
MC also argued it hadnt in fact provided mortgage advice  it said it had carried out a first 
review of Mr and Mrs Rs situation, which is what the £1,800 fee had been for. But when it 
became clear it couldnt help with any of their requirements it had declined to act for Mr and 
Mrs R. It said it had been agreed between the parties to cease activity. And MC had agreed 
not to charge the remaining half of its general fee nor did it make any separate charge for 
mortgage advice.
Mr and Mrs R asked our service to consider their complaint. They said they believed their 
existing lender wouldve agreed to changes to their mortgage in 2015. And they said they 
didnt think their lender couldve successfully argued they were in breach of their mortgage 
agreement. So, they felt MC shouldve advised and arranged a new deal for them.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think MC had made an error. 
He didnt think it was unreasonable of it to have concluded, based on the information it 
gathered at the time, that there were no appropriate options available to Mr and Mrs R. And 
he didnt think MC not recommending a mortgage meant that it shouldnt have charged a 
fee.
Mr and Mrs R did not agree with our Investigators opinion. They continued to dispute the 
service provided  whether advice was given or not. And they said they understood that their 
lender wouldve allowed a product switch without having an in-depth affordability 
assessment or needing to be informed that the property was being used in some capacity as 
a business. So, they said they felt MC had invented this reason for not progressing the 
application because it had been negligent.
As Mr and Mrs R did not agree with our Investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have summarised their thoughts and positions in detail. And Id like to assure 
them Ive reviewed everything when making my decision. If I havent commented on a point 
or an argument that isnt meant as a discourtesy, but rather is because Ive focussed my 
decision on what I consider to be the key issues which I need to decide, in order to reach a 
fair and reasonable decision. Im also only looking at the actions of MC when considering 
this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R paid MC a fee. The fee was to assess their financial situation and provide 
financial advice. Im satisfied, based on what has been said and the documents available 
from the time, that the fee paid was 50% of the overall fee agreed between the parties for 
financial advice. And Im satisfied that, the remaining 50% wouldve been charged by MC if it 
had proceeded to provide advice and that a separate fee wouldve been due in respect of 
arranging a mortgage on Mr and Mrs Rs behalf. I also agree though that mortgage advice 
was something Mr and Mrs R were specifically looking for when speaking to MC.
The parties dispute whether mortgage advice was actually provided. MC says it became 
apparent that it couldnt arrange products to meet Mr and Mrs Rs requirements. So, ceased 
to act without providing advice. And this is somewhat supported by the remainder of the 
relevant fees not having been charged. Mr and Mrs R have said that they were advised that 
there was no mortgage option available to them, as none were affordable. Which they 
believe was incorrect advice. But I dont think the dispute about how the services MC 
provided are described makes a great deal of difference here.
MC, after beginning to work on behalf of Mr and Mrs R, did not recommend a new mortgage to them or advise them to enter into a new mortgage - either with a new lender or their 
existing lender. So, what I need to consider, is whether this was fair and reasonable. Or 
whether MC should have in fact recommended a different course of action to Mr and Mrs R.
MC has said it made enquiries to potential new lenders. And from the information Ive been 
provided I dont doubt that it did this. But it says the outstanding balance at the time and the 
level of Mr and Mrs Rs income meant that re-mortgage to a new lender was not an option  
as Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have passed an affordability assessment. Based on the 
information provided, I dont think it was unreasonable of MC to have reached this 
conclusion when considering confirmed income in comparison to the amount of borrowing 
required.
MC has also said that a full re-mortgage with Mr and Mrs Rs existing lender would have 
faced the same issues in terms of affordability. And again, I dont think this conclusion was 
unreasonable based on the information available. And so, I dont think MC was wrong to 
inform Mr and Mrs C there were no affordable options available.
Mr and Mrs R have said that they didnt need a full re-mortgage with their lender. As they 
had an existing mortgage, MC couldve simply recommended a product switch on their 
existing borrowing, which Mr and Mrs R believe would not have required a full affordability 
assessment.
It is generally the case that if a borrower applies for a new interest rate product on a 
mortgage, without making any other changes to the terms of the mortgage, lenders do not 
need to undertake as in depth a review of the customers financial situation as when a new 
mortgage application is made. But that doesnt mean a lender will not assess affordability.
MC has said that the reason it didnt advise Mr and Mrs R to apply for a product switch was 
that it became aware, when gathering information, that their existing mortgage may not have 
been appropriate for their circumstances. So, it thought the lender, when it became aware of 
this, wouldnt agree to a new product. And it says it based this opinion, in part, on an 
informal discussion with the lender.
A record of that informal discussion is not available. MC says this isnt unusual as it doesnt 
keep records of every contact with a lender as part of a review. And in this case, the contact 
was informal. Mr and Mrs R question whether there was in fact any contact with the lender.
I think on balance MC did likely speak to the existing mortgage lender, with a general 
enquiry, as it said it did. Ive seen information which indicates MC contacted the lender to 
obtain details of the mortgage. And I think its likely there was a more general discussion, 
even if there are no records now available. But either way, I think the explanation MC has 
given for not recommending Mr and Mrs R proceed with an application for a product switch 
is reasonable.
It said that, as well as a new mortgage not being considered affordable, it believed the 
lender, when aware of Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances, would also think the existing 
mortgage was not unaffordable. MC also says it identified that the existing mortgage was 
based on the property being solely residential, but a business was being carried on from 
there. And it felt therefore the lender would not agree to a new product  and might in fact 
seek to penalise Mr and Mrs R for breaching their contract. And again, based on the 
information available to MC, I think was a reasonable concern.Mr and Mrs R have argued that they dont think the lender wouldve had grounds to penalise 
them or object to their situation. But Im not looking at the actions of the lender or whether it 
wouldve done this. Im looking at whether MC thought this reasonably might happen and if, 
as a result, it was appropriate for it not to recommend that an application be made on this 
basis. And I think MCs actions were reasonable  based on what it knew.
Mr and Mrs R have also said that they believe this argument was not part of MCs thinking at 
the time and has since been invented. But based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied this was an 
issue MC thought about at the time. MC has provided information it says was recorded at the 
time, indicating it was aware that there was a business operating from the property and a 
concern that a commercial mortgage may be necessary, based on Mr and Mrs Rs 
circumstances. And I dont have any reason to doubt the evidence provided.
Mr and Mrs R also say MC was under no obligation to provide information about its 
knowledge of their circumstance to the lender if only applying for a product transfer, so 
shouldve proceeded. But I dont agree. MC was aware of information relevant to the 
circumstances surrounding the application. I cant agree it wouldve been right for MC to 
ignore this information or misrepresent the position to the lender. Nor would it have been 
appropriate for MC to suggest that Mr and Mrs R mislead their lender, in the hope that this 
information was not checked.
So, taking everything into account, based on the information MC gathered at the time, I dont 
think it did anything wrong when telling Mr and Mrs R there were no suitable mortgages it 
could arrange for them.
Ive seen information which suggests, after 50% of the advice fee was paid, that MC met 
with Mr and Mrs R and proceeded to gather information from various sources, to build a 
picture of what advice it could potentially provide to them. This wasnt limited to information 
about Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage  as information appears to have been gathered in relation 
to assets, savings, investments and pensions amongst other things. So, Im satisfied the fee 
charged wasnt solely related to mortgage advice. And Ive seen nothing in the paperwork 
from the time to suggest that the fee charged was refundable, if MC concluded there were 
no suitable options it could recommend. Indeed, Ive seen nothing to suggest that the other 
part of the fee would not be payable  but it seems to have been agreed between the parties 
at the time that it wouldnt be. With that in mind, I also dont think MC not progressing a 
mortgage application for Mr and Mrs R means it was wrong to retain the fee they paid at the 
time. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman