DRN-3105434
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) unfairly declined a claim 
under their home contents policy.
What happened
Mr B and Mrs B insured their daughters bangle as a specified item on their insurance policy. 
A while later, Mrs B contacted AXA to report that her daughter had lost the bangle. AXA 
declined the claim because it said accidental loss wasnt covered by the policy.
When Mr B and Mrs B complained, AXA explained how it assessed claims and how it dealt 
with claims for accidental loss. It said it hadnt been demonstrated that an insured event had 
taken place.
So, Mr B and Mrs B complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She said the policy explained that accidental loss wasnt covered. She also said there wasnt 
evidence to show the loss was covered as the result of a theft or physical damage.
As Mr B and Mrs B didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our 
investigator. I will explain why.
When Mrs B contacted AXA to make a claim, she said her daughter had lost the bangle. She 
said her daughter realised this in the evening and the next day they went back and searched 
each place they had been the previous day. They had also tried to report it to the police, but 
the police wouldnt provide a reference number. At the end of the phone call, after AXA had 
explained why the claim had been declined, Mrs B also said that the bangle had come off 
her daughters wrist, so it had broken.
Looking at accidental loss first, the policy booklet said:
This relates to the loss of Personal Possessions, Contents, High Risk Items, Electronic 
Gadgets or Bikes where theft cannot be established.
And:
What is not covered
Your policy will not pay for claims which are:

 Accidental Losses
So, Im satisfied that the policy explained that it didnt cover accidental loss and that it was 
reasonable for AXA not to deal with the claim on that basis.
Ive also looked at whether the claim should have been dealt with as physical damage, which 
the policy did provide cover for. Where a policyholder makes a claim, they need to show that 
an insured event has taken place. From what Ive seen, Mr B and Mrs B have both said the 
bangle was likely to have been damaged although I havent seen any specific evidence to 
support this. Where a claim is made, an insurer is entitled to investigate the claim to see 
whether it is covered by the policy. In cases of physical damage, the policy didnt cover 
physical damage in every circumstance. For example, it didnt cover damage that was the 
result of wear and tear. As the bangle wasnt available for inspection, it wasnt possible for 
AXA to check whether the bangle had sustained physical damage and, if it had, the likely 
cause and circumstances of that physical damage. So, I also think it was reasonable for AXA 
not to accept the claim under this part of the policy.
Ive also considered whether the claim was covered under the theft part of the policy. When 
Mrs B first contacted AXA she said the bangle had been lost by her daughter and that she 
had tried to report it to the police, but hadnt been able to get a reference number. They had 
also returned to various places it could have been lost to try and find the bangle. 
It was later reported to the police as a theft. Ive seen a letter from the police, dated the 
same day on which the letter said it was reported as a theft, that said:
The details of this offence have been recorded under the classification of Theft if not 
classified elsewhere
The letter also said it had been allocated for further investigation. But I dont think that letter 
was enough reason for AXA to deal with the bangle as a theft claim as it mainly seemed to 
be acknowledging that a report had been made. Looking at everything that happened, I 
havent seen anything to suggest the loss was most likely due to theft and that AXA should 
have considered it on that basis.
So, thinking about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require AXA to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman