DRN-2895475
The complaint
Mr J says AIB Group (UK) Plc trading as First Trust Bank mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy sold to him alongside a loan.  
What happened
This complaint is about a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a loan in 2001. Mr J 
applied for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. AIB disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mr Js complaint because I dont think AIB gave Mr J clear enough 
information about the costs and benefits the policy provided  and I think that this wouldve 
mattered to him.
AIB doesnt have a copy of Mr Js original loan paperwork  and I wouldnt expect it to as the 
loan was sold so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. But 
AIB has provided a sample which it says represents what Mr J wouldve been given at the 
time. 
Ive looked at this sample, but I dont think that it gave Mr J enough information about the 
costs and benefits the policy provided for him to make a decision about if he thought it would 
be right for him. I understand that the policy was paid on a monthly basis, but I cant see that 
it made it clear what benefit Mr J wouldve received for the amount he paid for the PPI. And 
as Mr J has told us that he had significant employment benefits in place (and would also 
have been entitled to redundancy) I dont think that he wouldve thought the policy provided 
him with good value for the cover if this had been made clear to him. So, I think Mr J has lost 
out because of what AIB did wrong.
Ive taken in to account what AIB has said about the policy paying out on top of his existing 
cover  but I dont think that he wouldve thought that he needed to pay extra to take it out 
given what he already had in place. And I still think I should uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
AIB should put Mr J in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and AIB should:
Pay Mr J the amount he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr J made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AIB can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AIB to take off tax from this interest. AIB must give Mr J a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. AIB Group (UK) Plc trading as First Trust Bank should put things 
right as set out above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman