DRN-2814333
The complaint
Mr C complains that MBNA Limited irresponsibly allowed him to open two credit card 
accounts that were unaffordable.
What happened
Mr C says he opened the first MBNA account in 2015 and at the time had significant debts. 
He says he told MBNA about his financial difficulties in 2016 but it allowed him to open a 
new account in 2018 with an unaffordable credit limit of £6,000. Mr C says the accounts 
were unaffordable, the lending irresponsible and the debt caused health issues. He would 
like the charges and interest refunded as well as adverse information removed from his 
credit file. He would also like 8% interest paid on that refund.
MBNA says it carried out appropriate checks on both accounts. It says the first account was 
opened in 2015 with a credit limit of £6,700 and Mr C had an income of £26,000 a year with 
unsecured debt of about £8,000. MBNA says Mr C did tell it about financial difficulties in 
early 2016 but he repaid the debt shortly after that. It says the second account was opened 
in 2018 with a credit limit of £6,000 and at that stage Mr C had an income of £28,000 a year 
and his unsecured debt was about £12,000. MBNA says there was no adverse information 
on Mr Cs credit file, and he repaid that debt.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought MBNA had carried out appropriate checks on both applications and considered both 
accounts were settled in full and that Mr C didnt have any adverse information on his credit 
file at the relevant time.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says he was forced to sell his house as a result of the 
unaffordable lending and that he told MBNA about his financial difficulties, but it allowed him 
to open a second account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out proportionate and reasonable checks on any 
lending or credit application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type of 
lending and the amount. I am looking here at a credit facility rather than for example a loan 
or mortgage.
I have looked at Mr Cs first application in 2015 and can see he declared an income of 
£26,000 with what I think was a relatively low amount of unsecured debt of about £8,000. I 
can see that MBNA carried out checks on the application and considered the lack of adverse 
information on Mr Cs credit file. So, Im satisfied MBNA carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Mr Cs application and that the lending was on the face of it 
affordable. I can see that in 2016 Mr C told MBNA about his financial difficulties but can also 
see that shortly after that date Mr C repaid the full balance. I think that provides additional 
evidence that the credit facility was on balance affordable at the time of the application.
The second application was made some two years after the first account was closed. I can 
see that Mr C was earning £28,000 and his unsecured debt had also increased to about 
£12,000. I think the unsecured debt although higher in 2018 was not significantly high 
enough to justify further checks on the application or cause concern. And I think MBNA was 
entitled to consider that the first account had been settled even if Mr C had told it about 
financial difficulties two years before. Im satisfied that MBNA fairly carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks on the second application and fairly considered the lack of adverse 
information on Mr Cs credit file. So, I dont think the second account was unaffordable or the 
lending decision irresponsible.
I appreciate that Mr C says he was forced to sell his house and suffered health problems 
and I am sorry to hear about that. But I cant fairly hold MBNA responsible for what took 
place in circumstances where I find the credit facility was appropriately checked for both 
accounts. I think on balance it likely that Mr Cs financial position deteriorated after the 2018 
account was opened and that MBNA couldnt have known that when it approved the 
accounts. For those reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint and order that MBNA do 
anything further in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman