DRN-3494889
The complaint
Mrs C complains Tesco Personal Finance Plc (Tesco) sent a response to a complaint to an 
incorrect address.
What happened
Mrs C says following a complaint she lodged with Tesco, she was unable to access its 
emailed response, so Tesco agreed to send the response in writing. Mrs C says Tesco sent 
the letter to her previous address in Spain and is upset that her personal data has been 
compromised. Mrs C feels that although Tesco have paid her £75 for its mistake, this doesnt 
go far enough. 
Tesco says their complaints team sent its response to the previous address it held on file in 
error and it has apologised for that and paid Mrs C £75 by way of apology. Tesco says there 
was nothing in the letter it sent that contained any personal data, that would create any risk 
for Mrs C, only basic details of the complaint itself. 
Mrs C wasnt happy with Tescos response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says the address Tescos sent the complaint response to, was held on its 
complaints system and that should have been changed, but Tescos acknowledged that, 
apologised and paid Mrs C £75 by way of apology. The investigator says she checked the 
letter sent to Mrs C by Tesco, which had been forwarded on to Mrs C, and was satisfied it 
didnt contain any information that would put her account at risk. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mrs C to have a letter sent in response to 
her complaint, to her previous address. 
The first thing to say here is Tesco have accepted the letter it sent was posted to Mrs Cs 
previous address in Spain and have apologised to her for that and paid her £75 by way of 
apology. So, when looking at this complaint I will consider if the letter Tescos sent contained 
any personal data that would put Mrs Cs account at risk and if the level of compensation it 
has paid Mrs C, is sufficient in the circumstances. 
Tesco have explained the response letter it sent Mrs C was unfortunately taken from its 
complaint teams system, which hadnt been updated. Tesco have said this letter was sent 
as Mrs C wasnt able to access the original response it sent to her by email. 
Ive seen the complaint response letter Tesco sent to Mrs C in September 2021, and while I 
can understand it would be frustrating for this to have been sent to her previous address, Im 
satisfied it didnt contain any personal data that would put Mrs C at risk, as it simply referred 
in general terms to her complaint. 
Thats not to say Tesco havent made an error here, it did but it has apologised for that and 
paid Mrs C £75, which Im satisfied is reasonable here.
So without trying to minimise the frustration this would have undoubtedly caused Mrs C, its 
worth saying its not the role of this service to penalise businesses when genuine mistakes 
are made, but to see that it apologises for that and offers a proportionate level of redress  
Im satisfied Tesco did that here. 
While Mrs C will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Tesco here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman