DRN-3738298
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about QIC Europe Limited (QIC) who declined their claim under their 
home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R contacted QIC following damage (from a storm) that had happened in their 
home. QIC instructed a surveyor to attend and assess the damage. But, prior to the surveyor 
attending, Mr and Mrs R found a contractor to carry out permanent repairs. They said that it 
was horrendous living in the unrepaired home, due to the leaking water coming in. They said 
they couldnt wait for the QIC surveyor to attend, as this was taking too long. 
Mr and Mrs R informed QIC that they had carried out the repairs to their property. It asked 
for images and the invoice. But it still confirmed that the surveyor would attend. 
The surveyor attended but said that he was unable to assess the external damage, as the 
property had been repaired. So, the surveyor declined the claim on behalf of QIC, as he 
wasnt able to validate the claim. 
The surveyor also declined the internal damage, as Mr and Mrs R had no accidental damage 
cover. This was reported to Mr and Mrs R by the surveyor and later confirmed by QIC. Mr 
and Mrs R complained to QIC. 
In its final response, QIC maintained that the claim was correctly declined. Primarily 
because, Mr and Mrs R had carried out permanent repairs to their home, had not told QIC 
that they had done this and there was no way that it could validate their claim. 
Mr and Mrs R were given their referral rights and referred a complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that 
as Mr and Mrs R had already carried out repairs to their property, QIC were unable to 
validate the claim. In addition, he said that images that Mr and Mrs R provided and were  
reviewed by QIC, showed signs of damage and the property was in poor condition. 
QIC accepted the view, Mr and Mrs R did not. They said that the view wasnt fair, especially 
as the surveyor took four weeks to actually come out to look at the property. And they 
needed to repair the damage to prevent further damage and for health and safety concerns 
for their family. So, it asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint. I understand that this might be a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, but I do hope my findings go some way in explaining why 
Ive reached this decision.
The main issue of this complaint is whether QIC fairly declined the claim, under the policy.  I 
must point out that I have considered all the evidence and points raised by both parties. If I 
dont mention a point, it isnt because I havent considered it, I have. But as an informal 
dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable conclusion with 
the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to every point 
made, but to concentrate on the nub of the issue.
Our approach when assessing complaints where storms are said to be the cause of the 
damage, is that we take into consideration three questions, when determining whether an 
event can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Both parties accept that there was a storm that occurred on or around the date the damage 
occurred. And that the damage claimed for was consistent with damage a storm typically 
causes. The question that is in contention is whether the storm conditions were the main 
cause of damage. 
Mr and Mrs R said that following a storm, water leaked into their property that caused 
damage such as a bowing ceiling, damage to contents and damage to their roof. Given the 
list of damage that Mr and Mrs R said the storm caused, Im satisfied that the damage was 
consistent with the damage a storm typically causes. But, when reviewing the evidence of 
whether the storm conditions were the main cause of the damage, our approach is to 
consider any expert evidence that is provided by either party. I say this, as an expert would 
be better placed to provide evidence of whether the storm conditions were the main cause of 
damage.       
Mr and Mrs R were asked whether they had any expert evidence that would support their 
position, that the storm conditions were the main cause of damage. None was provided. 
QIC relied upon the field surveyor as well as its in-house surveyors opinions (who are both 
deemed as experts) for reasons to decline the claim. The field surveyor in his report found: 
from the inspection of the property it was noted that the front dormer roof has been replaced 
and there were no photos of the dormer roof felt to be able to correctly assess the claim. 
From this, it is clear that the field surveyor said that he was unable to provide an assessment 
as to whether the storm conditions caused the damage, as Mr and Mrs F had carried out 
repairs to the property. 
In addition, QIC relied upon a condition within the policy that states: You may carry out any 
temporary repairs that are necessary to reduce any further loss or damage, but do not carry 
out any permanent repairs without first getting our written permission.Although the evidence shows that Mr and Mrs R told QIC that they had carried our repairs, 
they only did so after permanent repairs had been completed, in the absence of permission 
from QIC. So, Im persuaded that by doing this, it prejudiced QICs ability to validate the 
damage and to decide whether the damage was caused by a storm. 
Furthermore, QIC said that it was likely that the storm merely highlighted existing damage to 
the property. It said this due to the images that Mr and Mrs R provided and its in-house 
surveyors observations. The in-house surveyors (after having reviewed those images) 
concluded that there were signs that the felt, from the roof, had lifted and de-bonded from 
the decking. This it said, indicated that the roof had been in poor condition and the storm 
merely highlighted this. In the absence of any contrary expert evidence from Mr and Mrs R, 
Im persuaded that QIC were fair to conclude that the damage to the roof was due to wear 
and tear, and not as a result of a storm. So, it was reasonable for it to rely on this policy 
general exclusion. 
I have next considered whether there were any other terms within Mr and Mrs Rs policy that 
QIC couldve considered the internal damage caused. But Mr and Mrs Rs did not select to 
have accidental damage cover added to the policy. So, I cant reasonably find that QIC 
wouldve been able to consider the claim under another term. 
Overall, I think QIC dealt with Mr and Mrs Rs claim fairly. I m satisfied that it was unable to 
validate the claim, by concluding that the damage was caused by a storm, given that Mr and 
Mrs R had carried out permanent repairs. Without getting permission from QIC to do so. 
Also, Im satisfied that the images provided by Mr and Mrs R indicated the possibility of 
gradual wear and tear, which wasnt covered under the policy.  And the weather only 
highlighted the pre-existing damage.
I understand that this wont be the outcome that Mr and Mrs R wouldve liked but, in the 
circumstances, I cant reasonably ask QIC to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons as outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman