DRN-2695981
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S complained about a mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy. 
I see they have raised complaints about different issues, so to be clear, this decision is about 
the MPPI policy purchased in April 1998 with Mrs and Mr Ss joint mortgage.
The mortgage and MPPI have long since been closed and Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, is responsible for answering the complaint. Ill therefore mainly refer to Halifax 
throughout this decision.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already assessed this case and told Mrs and Mr S its unlikely to 
be upheld. Mrs and Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. Having done this, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint. 
Mrs and Mr S broadly raised two main points of complaint. The first is that they were 
unaware of ever agreeing to the MPPI in 1998. Secondly, they seem to imply MPPI wasnt 
necessary because they had other means, in the form of a quite similar insurance policy. 
Im afraid that in relation to the first point, I think theres very clear evidence pointing against 
what Mrs and Mr S recall. I think theres very compelling evidence they wanted the cover 
and would have been able to see it had been set up on their mortgage.
I say this because Halifax sent me their original mortgage application form which had a 
section on it about payment protection. Both Mrs and Mr S signed this section, asking for 
this type of cover to be added to their mortgage. Mr S then seems to have filled out another 
application form, specifically for the MPPI policy. It clearly says, MORTGAGE 
REPAYMENTS INSURANCE APPLICATION at the top of the form. This application was in 
respect of Mr S only and Mrs S wasnt covered. Mr S signed this document and dated it 11 
April 1998.
I think this is very clear evidence that they agreed to the MPPI. I also think they would have 
been sent or given documentation about the policy rules. So, whilst I accept Mrs and Mr S 
may have since forgotten about all this, I think Halifax properly obtained their consent and 
Mrs and Mr S would have known the MPPI wasnt something they needed to have.
Halifax concedes it would have recommended the MPPI as part of an advised sale. This 
means it had a duty to ensure it was suitable for their needs. Overall, I think it was suitable. 
I say this because Mr S appears to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these policies. Ive seen nothing that suggests 
it wasnt affordable for them. Mr S said he only had statutory sickness protection with his 
job, so the policy wasnt unsuitable in that respect: the mortgage was secured against their 
home and so the consequences of them not being able to keep up payments could have 
been serious. In the event of a successful claim, the cover was payable for up to 12 months 
and this would have been in addition to any other means they had in place at the time. 
Mr S sent in evidence of a protection policy from another provider, implying this showed he 
didnt need the Halifax MPPI policy at that time. But I see this other policy post-dates the 
Halifax sale by many years and probably relates to a completely different mortgage. 
Unfortunately, I cant agree this is a relevant consideration here. So, although I cant say 
why they decided to buy the 1998 policy for Mr S, I dont think it being recommended to 
them was unreasonable. I think the policy was a suitable product for their consideration and 
they agreed to buy it.
 
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously, I cant be sure after 23 years or so, whether Halifax did everything right. But 
having discussed the cover, I think Mrs and Mr S would have been given the supporting 
literature and I do think the disclosure of information in this case looks quite good. Who was 
covered, what was covered and the cost of the policy, were all set out on the relevant 
documents.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs and Mr S. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. 
I do not direct Bank of Scotland plc to do anything. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman