DRN-4263159
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined a claim on his travel 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S was abroad and his flight back to the UK was cancelled. His airline offered him some 
options, including an alternative flight which was the next day from a different city. Mr S 
chose to do this and incurred some additional costs. Mr Ss airline told him the cancellation 
was due to adverse weather. 
IPA rejected the claim as they said the circumstances werent covered by the policy. Mr S 
complained to IPA but they maintained their decision to decline the claim. Unhappy, Mr S 
made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt 
think there was cover under the policy for the costs Mr S wanted to recover. Mr S didnt 
agree. He clarified that the airline had covered the cost of his new flight, but hed incurred 
additional hotel and transport costs. He said the policy wasnt clear. 
So, I need to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint because: 
Travel insurance doesnt cover every eventuality. It provides cover in certain 
circumstances and its for Mr S to show he has a valid claim under the policy. I dont 
think it was unreasonable for IPA to decline the claim as I dont think Mr S has 
demonstrated an insured event took place. 
I think the policy wording made it sufficiently clear that not all claims for cancellation 
or delay would be covered. I also think the policy wording made it sufficiently clear 
that there were limitations to the cover. For example, it sets out what is and isnt 
covered under each section.  
Section A of the policy doesnt apply to the cancellation of a flight. It covers the 
cancellation of a whole trip in specified circumstances. So, there is no cover under 
that section of the policy. 
Section H covers delayed departure which includes flights which were cancelled as 
a result of adverse weather conditions. If a successful claim is made IPA can pay for 
unused travel and accommodation costs or other pre-paid charges the policyholder 
had paid or was contracted to pay. So, there is no cover under this section for the 
additional expenses Mr S incurred. In any event, the letter from Mr Ss airline doesnt 
explain why his original flight was cancelled as it only refers to the replacement flight. 
So, Ive not seen persuasive evidence which confirms the flight was cancelled due to 
adverse weather conditions. That means, based on the available evidence, there isnt 
enough evidence to demonstrate an insured event. 
Mr S didnt have travel disruption cover under Section Q of the policy. Its an 
additional cover option which Mr S hadnt purchased. It does offer cover for additional 
expenses as a result of delay or cancellation. Mr S didnt have the benefit of the 
additional cover offered under that section of the policy.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman