DRN-2952116
The complaint
Miss S complains that she was unable to access wages that were paid into her 
Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax bank account.
 
What happened
At the end of October 2020 Halifax received an account switch request for a current account 
in Miss S name. Halifax says the process takes seven days to complete. When the account 
switch request was received from the new bank, Miss S balance was overdrawn. Halifax 
says the account switch completed but it was unable to close Miss S account because of 
the outstanding balance. 
On 6 November 2020 a payment of around £95 was received which reduced the outstanding 
balance to £105. Miss S has explained the payment was from wages. Miss S contacted 
Halifax and asked for the funds to be released. Miss S also told Halifax she hadnt switched 
her account to another bank and complained. 
Halifax didnt uphold Miss S complaint and explained it had been unable to fully close her 
account following the switch to a new bank. Halifax advised there was an outstanding 
balance and gave details of how Miss S could make a payment. 
Miss S referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Halifax had dealt with Miss S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Miss S didnt agree and said Halifaxs actions meant she wasnt able to pay a bill and had 
impacted her mental health. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upset Miss S is at what happened. Ive considered the impact of the issues 
raised on her when deciding how to fairly resolve her complaint. 
Miss S told Halifax she didnt instruct an account switch to a new bank in October 2020. But 
Halifax has responded to say the account switch process started when Miss S new bank 
contacted it with instructions to move her account. As part of the process, Halifax says it 
wrote to Miss S when it received her new banks instructions but she didnt contact it to raise 
any concerns. Halifax has also explained that for the switch process to go through the 
customer has to enter information from their debit card with the new bank. 
Having looked at the available information, I think its fair to say Halifax acted in line with the 
instructions it received from Miss S new bank. Im satisfied the information shows Halifax 
carried out the relevant checks and Miss S account was correctly switched to her new bank. 
When Miss S account was switched to her new bank it was overdrawn by around £200. At 
that point new spending was limited and Halifax wrote to Miss S to say she needed to repay 
the outstanding balance. Halifaxs letter gave details of how Miss S could pay and said she 
could contact it if she had any questions. 
On 6 November 2020 Halifax received a payment of around £95 into the account and 
reduced Miss S overdraft limit to £105  the new outstanding balance. Miss S called Halifax 
on the same day as she wanted the funds released to her. But at this point, Miss S owed 
Halifax more than the £95 payment she received. And Miss S had switched her banking 
arrangements to another business. Im sorry to disappoint Miss S, but I havent been 
persuaded that Halifax treated her unfairly by using the funds it received to partially settle the 
outstanding overdraft balance. 
Miss S has explained that Halifaxs actions impacted her mental health. I can see how upset 
Miss S is at what happened and dont doubt what shes told us. I also understand Miss S 
wanted to use the funds in question to pay a bill. But, for the reasons Ive given above, I 
havent found that Halifax made any errors or treated Miss S unfairly. Im very sorry to 
disappoint Miss S but Im satisfied Halifax has dealt with her complaint fairly. As a result, Im 
not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman