DRN-3988766
The complaint
Mr W complaints through a representative that Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty (Drafty) 
gave him a line of credit he couldnt afford to repay. Mr W further says this facility put him 
into a cycle of debt.
What happened
Mr W approached Drafty for a running credit facility in August 2018. Mr W was given a
facility with a £950 credit limit. The limit remained the same throughout the life of the credit
facility. Drafty has confirmed the facility was fully repaid by Mr W in February 2021.
Mr W was given a running credit account where he could either request funds up to his
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to his limit. He was also
able to borrow further, up to his credit limit, as and when he repaid what he owed. To be
clear, Mr W was not given a payday loan.
In Draftys first final response letter (in October 2021) it explained the information it gathered
from Mr W before it approved the facility. It concluded given the estimated monthly
repayment outlined in the final response of around £26.80, Mr W was likely to be able to
afford his credit facility.
Drafty also provided details of the times it asked Mr W to reconfirm his income and
expenditure but even then, the facility remained affordable for him. The complaint
wasnt upheld by Drafty. Unhappy with this outcome, Mr Ws representative referred the
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ws complaint. She thought the checks Drafty carried
out before granting this facility were proportionate and showed Drafty Mr W was likely
able to afford the payment amount as outlined by the hypothetical payment schedule in
Mr Ws credit agreement. This was calculated on the full £950 being drawn down at the
outset and then being repaid over 12 months. So, she didnt think it was wrong to have
initially approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that as Drafty had provided Mr W with a credit facility,
in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure the facility was affordable at the outset, it
also had an obligation to monitor Mr Ws ongoing use of the facility. Having reviewed the
way Mr W borrowed and repaid the facility, she thought by 23 December 2019 Drafty ought
to have realised that the facility had become unsustainable for him. Knowing this, in the
adjudicators view Drafty shouldve stepped in and Drafty shouldve frozen the interest on the
facility.
In order to put things right, the adjudicator recommended all interest, fees and charged paid
by Mr W from 23 December 2019 should be refunded, along with additional interest of 8%
simple. She also said any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file from the uphold
should be removed from his credit file.
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint
from the same point in time (23 December 2019) but it agreed to only refund the interest
fees and charges applied to any new drawdowns from that date. At the time the offer was
made, Drafty explained this would lead to a refund (with tax taken off) of £61.82  it also
agreed to remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file.
However, Drafty didnt agree to refund all of the interest fees and charges applied to the
facility from 23 December 2019. It said this was because:
we take a different view on the way you have requested the calculations to be
done. Since you have decided 23rd December 2019, as the upheld date our
understanding is that any amount given to the customer before this date was
affordable and after this date is unaffordable. Basis this, Drafty is well within their
rights to collect the principle as well as interest on any drawdowns given prior to the
upheld date.
Draftys offer was put to Mr W and his representative told us he rejected it.
As no agreement has been reached, the case was passed to me for a decision. I issued my 
provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending to uphold Mr Ws complaint 
in part, but I also explained why I thought, the offer made by Drafty to resolve the complaint 
was fair and reasonable.
Both Drafty and Mr W were asked to provide anything further for consideration as soon as 
possible, but in any event, no later than 24 February 2023. 
Mr Ws representative didnt respond to or acknowledge the provisional decision. 
Drafty responded and agreed with the provisional decision. 
A copy of the provisional findings follows this in smaller font and italics and form part of this 
final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders
checks to be proportionate.
Any checks had to take into account a number of different things, such as how much was
being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be repaid.
As explained, Mr W was given an open-ended credit facility. So, overall, I think that this
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand
whether Mr W would be able to both service and then repay his facility within a reasonable
period of time. Draft also needed to monitor Mr Ws repayment record for any sign that he
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point the adjudicator reached, as it
offered some redress from this time  23 December 2019. And while, Mr W rejected the
settlement offer by Drafty, he didnt disagree that this is the point where the complaint ought
to be upheld.
So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree the facility should be upheld from
23 December 2019. However, what is in dispute, and therefore what this decision has
focused on, is whether the redress proposed by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint.
Both the adjudicator and Drafty have agreed, that Mr Ws borrowing history showed he was
potentially reliant on the facility and so any further advances of credit were likely to increase
his overall indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. So, there
doesnt appear to be any dispute as to when Drafty ought reasonably to have realised that it
shouldnt allowed Mr W to make any further drawdowns on his facility.
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for
Mr W while explaining why I disagree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest
charged after the 23 December 2019 needs to be refunded.
Drafty has accepted, that the pattern of borrowing on the facility by December 2019
demonstrated that Mr W shouldnt have been allowed to drawdown any further funds. So, I
dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have taken.
Our adjudicator thought that Drafty needed to refund all interest charged on the facility 
including on amount Mr W had previously drawn down and which theres no dispute were
affordable, from December 2019.
However, Id only direct Drafty to put things right in this way if I was satisfied that it ought to
have realised that Mr Ws position was so precarious that it ought to have realised that not
only was it the case Mr W couldnt afford any further borrowing, but that he was also in
position where he couldnt repay what he already owed. And so Drafty ought reasonably to
have withdrawn the facility completely. But I dont have anything from either Mr W or his
representative which demonstrates to me that he was in such a precarious position.
Furthermore, looking at Mr Ws repayment record, I do also have consider that Mr W only
took one further drawdown (albeit Drafty werent to know that at the time) and there are
times such as between June and October 2019 where Mr W doesnt take any new
drawdowns on the facility. Given this, I think it is difficult to argue that it was clearly and
demonstrable that Mr W wasnt drawing further funds in order to cover the hole, making his
minimum payments, was leaving in his finances.
Draftys proposed redress, as outlined in response to the adjudicator would lead to a refund
of interest on new drawdowns. And bearing in mind the circumstances here, in particular the
lack of evidence from Mr W and his representative indicating that Mr W wasnt in a position
to repay the funds hed already drawn down, I consider that refund to be reasonable. So, I
am intending to ask Drafty to pay that redress in resolution of the complaint.
Therefore, based on what Ive seen, including reviewing the drawdown history, I think
Draftys offer to put things right for Mr W is fair and reasonable given it considers the facility
was unsustainable for Mr W at this point in time and has proposed a way to enable any new
drawdowns to be, in effect, interest free.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been received from either Mr W or his representative and Drafty 
has agreed with the proposed outcome, I see no reason to depart from the findings I previously made, and I still think Drafty was wrong to have applied interest on new 
drawdowns from 23 December 2019, as Drafty already agreed the facility was unsustainable 
for Mr W.
In response to the provisional decision, Drafty provided new calculations as to the refund 
due to Mr W  it explained that the refund due to Mr W (which included 8% simple interest as 
well as a tax deduction) would amount to £75.75.
It also said that it would remove any adverse credit file data recorded from 
23 December 2019. 
Finally, it said that the refund will be applied to Mr Ws bank account ending *4750. Should 
Mr W like to receive the funds into a different account he will need to contact Drafty. 
For completeness, Ive outlined below what Drafty has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Mr W. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Drafty should do what it has offered in response to the
adjudicators assessment which I consider to be fair and reasonable.
Refund interest, fees and charges applied to any new drawdowns Mr W paid from
23 December 2019;
Then add 8% simple interest a year from the date of the payment to the date of
settlement*;
remove any negative information about the facility from Mr Ws credit file from 
23 December 2019.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in the provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Ws 
complaint in part.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman