DRN-3244499
The complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc allowed details of his debit card to be used fraudulently.
What happened
Mr M noticed a payment on his account that he didnt recognise, made to a merchant Ill 
refer to as G. He contacted TSB about it, who refunded the payment and issued a new card. 
Mr M has said he believes that TSB allowed his debit card details to be used fraudulently 
because he never uses the card and its kept locked in his safe at home.
Mr M has an account with G, but it was confirmed that the payment wasnt linked to his own 
account. Mr M has speculated that the transaction wasnt actually to G, just that Gs name 
was entered onto his account. Mr M has suggested that the details of his debit card were 
linked to an earlier data breach that TSB were involved in or that a TSB staff member was 
responsible for the use of his card details.
Mr M complained to TSB who looked into the situation and couldnt see any error that theyd 
made. Mr M then brought his complaint to our service for an independent review where it 
was looked into by one of our investigators. They thought that TSB had acted appropriately 
and there was no evidence to suggest TSB were complicit in the use of Mr Ms card details 
and didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators outcome and wanted a further review of his complaint. 
Its now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB refunded Mr Ms disputed transaction when he notified them about it, so I dont need to 
further consider this aspect. Mr M has speculated that TSB themselves were somehow 
involved in the breach of his card details which led to the disputed transaction.
TSB had a data breach some time before Mr Ms debit card was issued, so I dont think this 
could explain how someone was able to use his card details as they didnt exist at the time 
of the breach. Mr M speculated that TSB staff could have been involved and TSB advised Mr 
M that staff dont have access to the necessary card details to be able to do this. 
Theres no evidence to suggest Mr Ms debt card details were compromised by someone 
within TSB. Mr M has said he used a different card to make payments to G and it appears 
from his statements that he doesnt use his debit card. Mr Ms card was issued about six 
months prior to the disputed transaction which was for a relatively small amount. Its an 
unusual way to use someone elses details and if it was a TSB employee, I would have 
expected them to at least be aware of what Mr Ms account held, which was quite a lot more 
than was spent. So, while it will no doubt remain a frustration for Mr M, I dont think the 
answer to how his card details were compromised will be found.
Mr M speculated that the reference to G on his statement wasnt linked to the genuine 
merchant. Ive examined the audit data for this transaction which shows the merchant details 
and the information on his statement is correct. The transaction was made with G, although I 
accept it wasnt used with Mr Ms account with G because he checked with them about this.
Mr M remained concerned about the security of his details. When he reported the disputed 
transaction, TSB cancelled the debit card and issued a new one. What that means is the 
specific details used to make the disputed transaction should no longer work because its 
been cancelled. As far as Im aware there have been no further compromises of Mr Ms 
details.
Mr M wanted to be compensated for the stress and time it took to deal with his loss. Its clear 
Mr M was the victim of an unauthorised transaction using his details and TSB correctly 
refunded him. But, I dont think theres evidence to show they were complicit in the breach of 
Mr Ms details. Whilst it was no doubt stressful and took time to deal with, TSB werent 
responsible for the loss, a fraudster was. There will always be a cost in time and some worry 
dealing with something like this, but I dont think TSB added to Mr Ms stress. So, taking 
everything into account, Im not asking TSB to do anything more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman