DRN-3309043
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the cost of their Zenith Insurance plc home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have had home insurance for a number of years. It had been provided by a 
different company from Zenith until 2021  although the branding of the policy has remained 
constant throughout.
Mr and Mrs J found the increase in 2021 to be excessive. It had gone up from £300.44 in 
2020 to £1,028.25 in 2021. Mr and Mrs J complained about this and Zenith explained that 
there had been a change in underwriter in 2021 and that was the main reason for the cost 
increasing.
Mr and Mrs J didnt think that was fair. They also felt it was partly down to the previous 
underwriters mismanagement of a claim in 2015. They didnt believe it was fair for that to be 
classed as a subsidence claim either. Mr and Mrs J say that despite shopping around they 
havent been able to find competitive cover anymore.
An investigator here looked into Mr and Mrs Js concerns. They explained that the change in 
underwriter was the main factor, while also noting that this had led to the loss of a 40% no 
claim discount that had previously been applied. The investigator said it is up to the 
underwriter how much they charge.
Mr and Mrs J maintained that this was unfair, so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs J, but I dont agree theyve been treated unfairly. Thats 
not to say I dont appreciate why they feel that way. Its entirely understandable given their 
policy increased from around £300 one year to over £1,000 the next.
But I have to consider whether Zenith did anything wrong, and I dont think they have.
In effect, Mr and Mrs J had a policy with insurer X and now they have a policy with insurer Y. 
So, while they carry the same branding, and are both home insurance policies, they have 
different terms and conditions. And each insurer has its own way of calculating premiums.
This means that the scenario Mr and Mrs J find themselves in isnt particularly different from 
if theyd shopped around and got a new policy elsewhere. And while I appreciate it wasnt 
their choice to change insurer, this only happened at renewal when they were free to shop 
around  they didnt have to accept the renewal on offer.
Turning to the issue of the claim, there is little I can say about that because this case is 
about the price charged by Zenith  not the claim handling and classification by the previous 
insurer. But, from what Mr and Mrs J have said about the claim I dont think its wrong for 
Zenith to consider it to have been subsidence.
I also appreciate that it might be confusing that the subsidence claim, which dates back to 
2015, didnt seem to affect the premiums in other years the same way as it might be now. 
But that goes back to the fact that the policy is now being provided by a different insurance 
company which has its own way of calculating premiums. That they calculated them in a way 
which means Mr and Mrs J have seen an increase isnt on its own unfair.
Put simply, different insurance companies charge different prices.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman