DRN-4409608
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect him against losing 
money to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. Mr S says that in 2022 he was the victim of 
an investment scam. 
He says as a result of this he paid money from his HSBC account to accounts he held with I 
and C. I are another bank and C are a cryptocurrency provider. From those accounts, I 
understand the money was then moved on and lost to the scam. 
The payments relevant to this complaint took place between September and November 
2022 and Mr S says they totalled £26,000. There were multiple payments, the largest of 
which was for £11,000 on 31 October 2022. When he realised hed likely been the victim of a 
scam, Mr S reported this to HSBC. HSBC declined to offer a refund saying that the 
payments had all gone to accounts in Mr S own name and that he was in control of. Mr S 
complained and when HSBC maintained their position, the matter was referred to our 
service. 
One of our Investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary 
he didnt think the payments were so unusual that HSBC ought to have done more before 
following the instructions Mr S provided. Mr S disagrees and believes HSBC have breached 
their duty of care to him. He would like at least a partial refund of his loss and has asked for 
an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr S, so Ill explain why. 
Mr S has made some detailed submissions highlighting why he thinks HSBC should have 
done more. Ive read and considered all of these, but I dont intend to respond in similar 
detail. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is just a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service. 
Mr S has mentioned the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code (CRM Code). This is a voluntary scheme through which victims of authorised push 
payment fraud can sometimes receive redress from the banks involved. But the CRM code 
only applies to payments that go to another person. And as the payments made as part of 
the scam all went to accounts in Mr S own name, I cant say HSBC acted unfairly by not 
considering his claim under the CRM code. 
HSBCs first obligation is to execute the payment instructions provided by Mr S without 
undue delay. But Mr S is correct to point out that HSBC reasonably ought to try to protect 
him from financial harm due to fraud. And there is a balance to be struck between stopping 
and checking payments which represent an increased risk of the potential of a fraud or scam 
and not unduly interfering in valid payment instructions. 
Ive looked at the statements for Mr S account for the months prior to the payments in 
question. It wasnt uncommon for him to make payments of multiple thousands of pounds. 
Some examples of these include a payment for £15,000 in June 2022 and two payments 
each for £10,000 in September 2022 (which also went to I).
Mr S has argued that payments going to cryptocurrency, should have been a sufficient 
cause for concern such that HSBC ought to have done more. Ive considered this and I 
agree that the untraceable nature of cryptocurrency means it does commonly feature in 
scams. However, whilst I acknowledge it wasnt for a significant sum, the evidence indicates 
Mr S had paid his account with C previously (in May 2022), so it wasnt a new payee at the 
time of the payments made as a result of the scam. I dont agree that HSBC ought to have 
stopped and questioned all payments going to cryptocurrency. There still has to be a level of 
proportionality and balance as to what can reasonably be expected. And whilst in 2022 the 
fact that payments were to cryptocurrency should have been one of the factors considered, it 
isnt, on its own, enough to mean I think the payments should have been blocked at the time. 
Even taking into account that most of the payments were to C, overall, in the context of Mr S 
previous account usage and activity, I dont think the payments made towards the scam 
(either individually or collectively) were so unusual, suspicious or indicative of potential fraud 
such that HSBC should have done more than they did before processing them. And for 
completeness, as the accounts paid were Mr S, I dont think HSBC missed an opportunity to 
recover the funds. 
Id also like to note that even if HSBC had blocked the payments at the time, it wouldnt 
automatically mean that Id direct them to be refunded. Id still need to consider whether 
HSBC asking questions and providing warnings would have resulted in Mr S discovering the 
scam and deciding not to continue making payments. There is some evidence that HSBC 
provided an online warning for at least one of the payments. But as I dont think HSBC 
reasonably ought to have done more than they did at the time, this isnt something I need to 
make a finding on. 
Im sorry Mr S lost so much money to cruel scammers and to hear of the impact this has had 
on him. But as I cant fairly say that this is something HSBC are responsible for, there isnt a 
reasonable basis upon which I can require them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman