DRN-1470860
The complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont allow him to use his 
own solicitor in relation to a claim made under his legal expenses insurance policy. He is 
also unhappy with the service provided by one of RSAs panel solicitors. 
Where I refer to RSA, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide a 
brief overview here.
Mr R has the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which is provided by RSA. In 
February 2019 Mr R contacted RSA. He wanted to pursue a claim for medical negligence 
against a third party. RSA asked one of their panel solicitors L to do an initial assessment of 
Mr Rs claim to see if it was covered by the terms of the policy.
The letter L wrote to Mr R on 13 February 2019 noted that the case supervisor and team 
leader who would be involved in his case were both members of the Law Society specialist 
clinical negligence panel.
In the following weeks Mr R made numerous requests for another firm of solicitors M to 
represent him instead of L. Mr R also said he had lost faith in L and that he was unhappy 
with the service hed received. RSA declined the requests to appoint M under the policy. 
 They explained that Mr R would only have the right to choose his own solicitor once 
proceedings commenced. But they did offer Mr R another of their panel solicitors if he no 
longer wanted L to represent him. 
Mr R complained. He thinks RSA have restricted his freedom to choose his own solicitor. He 
also feels he has been treated unfairly. RSA considered the complaint but ultimately 
maintained their position and the matter was referred to one of our investigators. He didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. He felt the policy terms made clear Mr R wasnt yet 
entitled to choose his own solicitor. He did acknowledge that there were limited 
circumstances where we might think it would be fair and reasonable for an insurer to allow 
freedom of choice sooner. But he didnt think, in the circumstances of Mr Rs complaint, that 
RSAs decision was unreasonable or unfair.
As he still disagrees, Mr R has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. So I 
wont be asking RSA to do more to resolve this complaint. Let me explain why. It isnt my role to comment on Mr Rs underlying legal dispute. And I can quite understand 
why the wider circumstances are an incredibly important issue to Mr R and why this has had 
a significant impact on his life. However, I can only look at the actions of RSA and their 
agents and consider whether theyve acted fairly in the circumstances. I agree with our 
investigator that RSA arent responsible for the service provided by L who will have their own 
complaints procedure.
Mr Rs claim has been considered under the personal injury section of his policy. Under the 
heading of what is covered this says theres cover for The cost of you taking legal 
proceedings against another person or organisation as a result of an event which causes 
your death, or bodily injury. The term legal proceedings is given a specific definition within 
the policy which states: Legal action in a civil court to protect your rights in a dispute. 
The policy also says: In the period before Court papers need to be issued we may refer 
your case to a suitably qualified representative to act on your behalf. At the point where 
Court papers need to be issued or where there is a conflict of interest, you are free to 
choose a suitably qualified representative.
I think the terms and conditions of the policy are clear  until a claim needs to go to court or 
there is a conflict of interest, RSA can appoint their own panel solicitors to advise and to deal 
with the matter. This is in line with the law. And there isnt anything within the policy that says 
the position is different for potentially complex claims. Terms like this are very common in 
legal expenses insurance and I dont consider it to be inherently unfair.
There might be rare circumstances where it would be fair and reasonable for an insurer to 
allow freedom of choice sooner, despite the policy terms. This will be specific to the 
circumstances of each individual case. One example of this might include where the matter 
is so complex that it cant be dealt with by a panel solicitor. But having considered matters 
carefully, Im not persuaded this is one of those cases. I dont think the evidence supports 
that a panel solicitor would be unable to deal with this claim. Indeed L had staff who 
specialised in this area of litigation.
Mr R has also evidenced that he contacted M ahead of his involvement with L. But he hadnt 
got to the stage where he needed to start proceedings. And Im not persuaded that the 
amount of work M had done on his case was such that RSAs decision was unreasonable. 
Overall, I cant say RSA acted outside of the policy terms or treated Mr R unfairly when 
insisting that the only cover available at that time for his claim was for one of their panel 
solicitors. When Mr R explained he was unhappy with L, he was offered another panel 
solicitor. I think that was fair. 
As our investigator pointed out, if Mr R were to submit new evidence as to why he thinks 
RSA ought to agree to his choice of solicitor, Id expect them to consider it. And if Mr Rs 
legal case progresses, subject to the other terms of the policy being met, he will become 
entitled to choose his own solicitor. But I dont think RSAs decision at the material time was 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman