DRN-2826549
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE has declined to provide him with a full cash 
refund, after cancelling his travel insurance policy.
What happened
On 16 January 2020, Mr B purchased a single trip travel insurance policy, which provided 
him with cancellation cover from this date. The policy also provided additional cover for Mr 
Bs trip, including post- departure cover, with Mr B going on holiday from 3 June 2020 to 16 
June 2020. Mr B paid £214.47 for the policy. The policy also included cover for three medical 
conditions Mr B declared.
Mr B has explained that he cancelled his holiday in March 2020, in line with government 
advice. And on cancelling the holiday Mr B contacted Great Lakes, to let it know the holiday 
wasnt going ahead, and he would need to cancel his travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes said it would allow Mr B to move his travel insurance cover dates, at no extra 
charge. As long as the new cover dates selected were within 18 months of when he 
originally purchased his travel insurance policy. Alternatively, Mr B could be given a pro-rata 
credit voucher for the unused part of his original travel insurance policy  which it said 
equated to £90.49. Mr B would then be able to use this to purchase a new travel insurance 
policy with Great Lakes, whether this be a single or annual multi trip policy - so long as he 
did so within 36 months.
Mr B accepted the credit voucher. But he didnt feel this offer was fair. Mr B said that the 
provision of a voucher meant he was tied into using Great Lakes again in the future, rather 
than being able to shop around for a more competitive quote  and that the refund provided 
to him should be in cash instead. Mr B also noted that the coronavirus pandemic had been 
the reason his holiday, and his insurance policy, needed to be cancelled  and this was an 
exceptional situation that should be considered when dealing with the request to cancel his 
policy. 
In addition to this, Mr B said that the value of the refund didnt seem fair. Mr B said he felt 
Great Lakes should provide a refund for the full cost of the policy, minus a nominal 
administration fee.
As Mr B was unhappy, he raised his concerns with Great Lakes. But it didnt change its 
position. Remaining dissatisfied, Mr B referred his complaint to this service, for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and set out the details of the relevant cancellation 
rights  and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. They also explained that it is 
a fundamental principle of insurance law, that if the insurer has started to bear risk  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. The investigator said that this 
meant its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it 
covered during that time. 
The investigator also explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 16 January 2020, and 
the policy covered various risks during from that point, until the date the holiday Mr B was 
due to embark on was cancelled. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this complaint 
was for Great Lakes to provide Mr B with a pro-rata credit voucher, calculated based on the 
remaining premium when Mr Bs holiday was cancelled, until the end date of the policy on 16 
June 2020.
It was also clarified that this voucher being offered was valid for 36 months, from the point of 
policy cancellation. It could be used for a new single trip, or annual multi-trip insurance 
policy. Mr B could also transfer this voucher to a friend or a relative as a gift, if he would 
rather do this. And our investigator considered this fair.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators opinion. He still felt that Great Lakes offer wasnt 
fair. And he said that he hadnt wanted cancellation cover as part of his policy, so he felt he 
had been treated unfairly.  
Because Mr B remained dissatisfied, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt of 
your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund you any premium you have paid, 
less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14 day cooling off period no premium will 
be refunded, however in exceptional circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the 
policy resulting in us declining to cover your medical conditions.
Im not upholding this complaint because: 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling-off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer any refund to Mr B.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that it wont provide any refund after 
the cooling-off period, unless in exceptional circumstances. And, it gives examples of what 
would be considered exceptional circumstances. I can appreciate why Mr B wanted to 
cancel his insurance policy. His holiday would no longer be going ahead as a result of the 
coronavirus pandemic. But I dont think Mr Bs reasons for cancelling his policy reasonably 
fall into what would be considered exceptional circumstances. I say this because I dont 
think the global coronavirus pandemic, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is 
one which the policy term relating to discretion is intended to cover. The examples of 
exceptional circumstances given in the policy terms relate to bereavement or changes in the 
policyholders health. Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, 
including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And in the 
circumstances of this case, I think Great Lakes offer is fair and reasonable. 
Mr B was covered from the date he purchased his policy, for any cancellation claim he 
needed to make. And the premium he paid included this cover. Mr B has said this isnt cover 
that he required under the policy, and that he wasnt aware he had this cover. But 
cancellation cover is a usual part of a travel insurance policy  and Mr Bs policy documents 
provided to him, made it clear he was covered for cancellation of his trip from the date he 
purchased the policy. So, I dont think Great Lakes did anything wrong in this respect. As 
Great Lakes were on risk for any potential claim during this time, Im satisfied its reasonable 
that Mr B pay for Great Lakes acceptance of this risk. 
Mr B didnt need to make a claim for the cancellation of his holiday. Instead he called Great 
Lakes to cancel the policy as it was no longer needed, given his holiday had been cancelled. 
Mr B couldnt be sure whether he cancelled the holiday and 30 March or 31 March 2020. In 
these circumstances, Im satisfied its reasonable for Great Lakes to note the holiday as 
being cancelled on 31 March 2020  as this was the date Great Lakes was contacted about 
cancelling the insurance policy. And it seems reasonable that Mr B would have called Great 
Lakes on the same day as cancelling his holiday, to deal with the matter of no longer 
needing insurance. 
Because there was nothing left for Great Lakes to insure from 31 March 2020, and this was 
an unprecedented situation, I do think Great Lakes offer to now provide a pro-rata refund, 
from the date of the holiday cancellation is fair. It means Great Lakes isnt charging a 
premium when it knows there is nothing left to cover.  
Given this, I think a voucher for the remaining time left on the policy (from 31 March 2020 to 
16 June 2020) is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances of this case. I 
appreciate Mr Bs concern that the provision of a voucher means he has to insure with Great 
Lakes again in the future. But I dont think the terms of the voucher Great Lakes has offered 
Mr B are unreasonably restrictive. It does provide Mr B with a number of options, including 
the ability to purchase a single or annual multi-trip policy, or gift the voucher to someone 
else. And it allows Mr B cover to go on the same holiday at a later date than originally 
planned. Given that under the industry rules, and under the policy, Mr B wouldnt be entitled 
to a refund of premium, I think this is a fair and reasonable offer given the situation. 
I understand Mr B feels the value attached to the voucher should be for the full cost of the 
policy, minus a nominal administration fee. But I do think the value attached to the voucher is 
fair. As above, Mr B had the benefit of cover under the policy from 16 January 2020 to 31 
March 2020, and so the value of the voucher reflects this. 
The voucher amount is calculated from the date Mr B first called about cancelling the policy, 
given their holiday had just been cancelled  31 March 2020, to the date the policy was due 
to end, 16 June 2020. This meant there would be 78 days of the policy unused, where Great 
Lakes werent on risk - which equates to £90.49 of the premium paid. As this offer reflects 
the fact Great Lakes was not on risk for the 78 days after the holiday was cancelled, I dont 
think Great Lakes has treated Mr B differently, and therefore unfairly, in relation to how it has 
set and calculated the voucher amount in this case. And so, I dont require it to do anything 
more.My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that Im satisfied the voucher Great Lakes Insurance 
SE has offered Mr B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I dont require it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman