DRN-4383362
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct wouldnt allow him to open a 
new Regular Saver Account (RSA) until the maturity period of his previous RSA ended.
What happened
On 16 May 2022 Mr A opened a new RSA with first direct that had a one year term. First 
direct sent Mr A a letter to confirm what payments he could make and advising that on the 
anniversary of the account opening it would transfer the funds saved plus interest to an 
existing savings account. 
On 2 May 2023 first direct wrote to Mr A to notify him his funds would be paid into his 
savings account on 16 May 2023. First directs letter added that it could take five days (or 
longer if the maturity date was a weekend) to complete the maturity process. The letter 
advised that if Mr A needed access to his funds during that period he could contact first 
direct which would help him move it. 
Mr As explained he contacted first direct on 16 May 2023 to open a new RSA as the existing 
one had matured. But the agent Mr A spoke with explained that whilst he could access his 
funds immediately, a new RSA couldnt be opened until the maturity process had been 
completed which should take around five days. 
Mr A raised a complaint and first direct sent him a final response on 19 May 2023. The final 
response said the maturity process can take up to five days and that a new RSA could be 
opened once it had been completed. Mr As complaint wasnt upheld. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr As complaint. They werent persuaded first direct 
had made a mistake or treated Mr A unfairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr A asked 
to appeal and said first direct operates differently to other businesses he holds similar 
accounts with which allow a new account to be opened on the date the previous one 
matured. Mr A added that first direct hadnt told him he wouldnt be able to open a new 
account during the maturity period of his existing RSA. As Mr A asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
When Mr A opened the RSA in May 2022 first direct issued terms and conditions. In the 
terms, first direct explains that on maturity the funds held in the RSA will be paid into another 
savings account in the customers name. The terms say the maturity process can take up to 
five days unless the maturity date falls on a weekend. The terms add that funds will be 
available to the customer immediately if they contact first direct. This information was 
repeated in first directs letter date 2 May 2023 notifying Mr A the maturity date was 
approaching. 
In response to the investigator, Mr A explained that nowhere in the terms and conditions 
does it say that first direct wont open a new RSA until the current RSAs maturity process 
has completed. I take Mr As point, but the terms and conditions first direct issued related to 
the RSA he opened on 16 May 2022. First direct has confirmed it wouldnt include 
information about a future RSA in the terms of an existing RSA. Im satisfied thats a 
reasonable approach and havent seen anything that shows first direct misled Mr A. 
First direct has made the point Mr A was able to access his money during the maturity 
period. And Mr A has told us hes used to operating similar accounts with other businesses. 
So whilst I acknowledge Mr A was frustrated that there would be a delay in opening a new 
RSA, he had access to his funds on the date of maturity and couldve arranged a transfer to 
another business that allowed him to proceed with an alternative without any delay. 
Mr As explained that other businesses he deals with operate differently to first direct. But 
first direct is free to operate in line with its commercial discretion, including deciding when 
customers can open a new RSA. I havent been persuaded first direct acted unfairly on the 
basis it operates differently to other businesses. 
I note that first direct has also made the point Mr A has held RSAs in previous years, all of 
which have been subject to the same process. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I havent been persuaded that first direct misled him or made 
a mistake when it advised the maturity process had to be completed before a new RSA 
could be opened. As a result, Im not telling first direct to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 5 
January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman