DRN-4114420
The complaint
Miss B complains that PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss B applied for a PayPal credit account in March 2019. PayPal approved the application 
and gave Miss B a credit limit of £5000.
Miss B complained that PayPal lent irresponsibly to her. She says that if PayPal had carried 
out proper checks it wouldve seen that the lending was unaffordable.
PayPal didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out appropriate checks before 
lending to Miss B.
Miss B remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he thought PayPal had carried out 
reasonable and proportionate checks and that these showed the lending to be affordable.
Miss B didnt agree. She said she had around £10,000 of existing credit commitment at the 
time the account was opened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Bs complaint.
PayPal needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure that it didnt lend to 
Miss B irresponsibly. This means it should have carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy itself that Miss B could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable way. These 
checks could take into account a number of things such as the amount of credit, the 
repayments amount and Miss Bs income and expenditure.
Ive looked at the checks carried out by PayPal before it approved the account. It obtained 
information about Miss Bs income and expenditure and carried out a credit search to see 
what other credit commitments she had, and whether there was any adverse information.
Miss B declared income of between £2000 - £2500 per month and expenditure of between 
£1000 - £1500 per month. PayPal calculated that Miss B had monthly disposable income of 
around £750.
PayPal found no recent defaults or county court judgments on Miss Bs credit file. It has 
explained that any county court judgments which were over 24 months old were disregarded 
as being historic.
Based on what Ive seen, I think PayPal carried out reasonable and proportionate checks. I 
havent seen anything in the information gathered by PayPal which wouldve given it cause 
for concern or necessitated further checks.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the information gathered by PayPal showed the credit was 
likely to be affordable for Miss B. I appreciate that Miss B had around £13,000 of other debt 
at the time of the application, however, it appeared from Miss Bs income and expenditure 
that she was likely to be able to sustainably repay the credit. This would also have been the 
case had the entire credit facility of £5000 been utilised.
Miss B has said that there was a county court judgment on her credit record at the time of 
her application. Ive reviewed the credit report provided by Miss B but I cant see any 
reference to a county court judgment on it.
Having looked at the credit report, I havent seen anything on it to suggest that Miss B was in 
financial difficulties or struggling to repay her credit commitments.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im unable to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman