DRN-3247649
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) declined his application for a new
bank account  which meant he couldnt then apply to the bank for a Bounce Back Loan.  
What happened
Mr H held a personal current account and a business instant access savings account with
Co-op which he took out around 18 years ago. As Mr H has dyslexia, he says he relied on
the advice of Co-ops branch staff to help him open his business account.
In 2016 and 2017, Mr H contacted Co-op to ask about different facilities within the account,
but he was told by the bank that his account didnt support this, and he should apply for a
business current account (BCA). Mr H said Co-op agreed to call him back about this, but
never did - so he began using his personal current account for business purposes instead.
Mr H says Co-op contacted him about the use of his personal account for business purposes
around three years ago and he said he was happy to apply for a BCA, but again didnt
receive a call back from the bank as agreed. So he continued to use his personal current
account in the same way.
In May 2020, Mr H decided to apply for a Bounce Back Loan, so he approached Co-op as he
already held both his personal and business savings account with them. As part of Co-ops
processes, it required all businesses applying under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme to have
either a business current account or a feeder account before they could apply for a Bounce
Back Loan.
Mr H said he initially applied using his business savings account number, but this gave an
error message on the application form. So Mr H said he applied using his personal current
account details and supplying his tax-year ending accounts as requested on the application
form. He said he received an email on 16 May to say the application had been accepted by
the bank.
Mr H then received a further email a couple of days later saying his new current account had
been opened and the loan funds were available. However, when he went to use the funds, 
he couldnt access them. So Mr H called Co-op, who said they couldnt locate the account
number hed provided and told Mr H he would need to apply for a BCA.
On 26 May, Mr H received a further email from Co-op explaining his BCA application had
been declined to his credit score. Mr H called Co-op again, who suggested he go to his local
branch and add his wife to the application as she had a better credit score.
The following day, Mr H went to his local branch and was told this information was incorrect.
The branch explained adding Mrs H wouldnt have an impact on the application and
apologised that Mr H had been told incorrect information. The branch also called the loan
team to see if Mr H could have the loan paid into his business instant access account, but
they said this wasnt possible as Mr Hs account was a savings not current account.
So Mr H made a complaint. He said hed held the account for 18 years and relied on the
advice hed been given by Co-op because of his dyslexia. Mr H also said hed been caused
distress and inconvenience by the banks error as he believed he was getting the loan and
now that had been taken away from him.
Co-op upheld the complaint in part. The bank said they were sorry for the distress caused to
Mr H when he was incorrectly told his loan application had been successful. Co-op said they
realised their error when Mr H had called to access the funds which couldnt be located. The
bank explained Mr Hs business savings account couldnt be used to apply for a Bounce
Back Loan and that he would need a BCA.
Co-op also said they could see Mr H had previously asked about a BCA, but due to his
adverse credit history, they werent able to open him this type of account. And this decision
was in line with their procedures, so they didnt feel hed been mis-sold his savings account.
The bank apologised that Mr H had been given incorrect information and sent to his local
branch in error and paid him £150 compensation. Mr H didnt think this was fair and asked
this service to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the first part of Mr Hs complaint be upheld. She said
although Mr H already banked with Co-op, his existing account wasnt compatible with the
Bounce Back Loan Scheme so it was reasonable for the bank to require him to open a
current account so they could complete the required regulatory checks.
She also said that because the BCA was a separate product to the Bounce Back Loan, it
was reasonable for Co-op to undertake a credit score when assessing an application for
one. The investigator said that Mr Hs credit history hadnt met the banks criteria and so she
was satisfied Co-op had assessed Mr Hs application fairly.
As to whether Co-op had done anything wrong in providing a business savings account
rather than a BCA, the investigator said we couldnt investigate this aspect of the complaint.
She said this is because it had been raised outside of the time limits that apply under our
rules.
Mr H didnt agree. He said the investigators view hadnt covered that hed initially been told
his application had been accepted, to then to be told around a week later that Co-op had
made a mistake and the loan couldnt be paid into that account. Mr H also thought it was
unfair Co-op had said they would reconsider his application again if he could show his
adverse credit had been settled  but then didnt do so. Mr H said hes been caused distress 
from Co-ops actions and treated unfairly. He also said he wanted Co-op to be publicly 
reported for their actions.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 December 2021. I said the following:  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-selling of the original business account
Mr H has told us he feels Co-op mis-sold the business savings account to him as he is
dyslexic and relied on bank staff to give him the best account for his needs. He feels if hed
been given the type of account he wanted at the time, he would have the requisite BCA and
therefore been able to obtain a Bounce Back Loan.
Our power to consider complaints is set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct
Authority, in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. DISP Rule 2.8.2R includes rules abouttime limits. This rule says this service cant consider a complaint if its been referred to this
service more than six months after the date of the final response letter, or six years after the
event causing the complaint  in this case the mis-sale of the business savings account  or
three years from when the complainant realised, they had a reason to complain.
The only times the service could discount this is if the ombudsman decided the complaint
wasnt brought to us in time due to exceptional circumstances, we are required to do so by
the Ombudsman Transitional Order, or finally if the respondent business (Co-op in this case)
has agreed to the service looking at the complaint outside of these time limits.
Co-op havent consented to us looking into this aspect of Mr Hs complaint. So Ive
considered whether I think its been raised within the applicable time limits.
Ive looked at the case and I can see Mr H took out his account with Co-op around 18 years
ago, which means hes brought the complaint more than six years after the event he is
complaining about. So I then need to see if Mr H has brought his complaint to us within three
years after becoming aware, he had cause to complain.
Co-op have provided case notes that show Mr H discussed wanting to open a business
account with them in 2016. They also show that in April 2017, Mr H asked for a cheque book
for his account - but was told he wasnt able to have one for his account and needed to open
a business current account instead. Ive also seen that around this time, Mr H stopped using
his business savings account for general banking  and hes also told us hes been using his
personal current account for business purposes.
So I think Mr H knew  or ought reasonably to have known  at these points that his existing
business savings account wasnt suitable for the business purposes he wanted to use it for.
And as this was all more than three years ago, I think the complaint about this matter has
been raised outside of time limits.
This means I cant consider Mr Hs complaint unless his failure to comply with the time limit
was the result of exceptional circumstances. I acknowledge Mr H has told us hes dyslexic
and was reliant on the bank to help him with getting the right account. However, Mr H has
told us that his wife helps with his paperwork so I think it would have been reasonable to
think she could have helped him bring a complaint to this service once he realised the
account didnt offer the features he thought. I also think its reasonable to believe that as
Mr H was able to contact Co-op by phone, he was also able to contact this service.
So based on the information Mr Hs provided, I havent seen any evidence of exceptional
circumstances in this case, so I dont have the power to consider this part of Mr Hs
complaint.
The Bounce Back Loan application
I recognise Mr H feels he shouldnt have needed to open a BCA with Co-op as he already
banked with them. But under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, lenders could 
require that applicants held a business relationship before it would accept a loan application
from them. So I think Co-op was entitled to require Mr H to apply for a BCA before they
processed his loan application. And this was in line with its policy, which was also set out on
its website.
The BCA application
Co-op were entitled to assess Mr Hs BCA application in line with its criteria. I can see the
application was declined as it failed Co-ops credit score requirements. This was a decision itwas entitled to make. I note that Mr H is unhappy that Co-op didnt review the application
again as they said they would  but Ive seen that they did so after he referred the complaint
to us and maintained its decision because of the adverse credit information.
I recognise Mr H told us he wasnt aware of this adverse information at the time he made the
application. Ive also seen that it was satisfied in April 2021 once Mr H became aware.
However, Mr H made the BCA application to the bank in May 2020, which means the
adverse credit information was reporting correctly at the time Co-op made their decision. So
as Mr H didnt meet the banks account opening criteria, Co-op declined the application -
which I think was reasonable.
Mr H also told us hed contacted Co-op several times to change his business savings
account to a BCA, and that hed told them of his dyslexia, so he needed their help. However,
Ive looked at all the evidence provided and although I can see Co-op suggested several
times to Mr H that he apply for a BCA, there are no records showing he requested a call or
appointment to arrange this. I also havent seen anything that suggests Co-op were aware of
Mr Hs dyslexia until hed raised this complaint with the bank. So I cant reasonably say Coop
should have done more here to support Mr H with an earlier application.
BCA decision
After Mr H submitted his application on 11 May, Co-op contacted him the next day, to say
the account number hed stated wasnt recognised. Mr H then confirmed he was using his
personal account as his business account number wasnt working. Co-op then said they
werent able to process his Bounce Back Loan at that time as Mr H didnt have a BCA with
the bank and asked that he reapply for the loan once hed received an BCA number. So I
think initially Co-op were clear they wouldnt accept Mr Hs application as it didnt meet their
criteria.
However, it appears due to an internal error, Mr H was told his loan application had been
agreed and that he should sign the acceptance letter and return this  which he did. But he
wasnt aware this had been sent before the bank had made a decision on the BCA
application. Mr H said he felt great relief at this point as he felt his business had been given
a lifeline to survive the pandemic  and I think it reasonable that he felt this way. It was only
when Mr H called to find out the account number the funds had been credited to, that Co-op
told him they couldnt locate it.
I can see this caused Mr H confusion as he hadnt yet heard back about the BCA decision,
so he had to email Co-op again to ask what was happening. It was shortly after this, that
Mr H received the decline for his BCA application - due to his adverse credit history - and
therefore the Bounce Back Loan.
Mr H was then incorrectly told to go to his local branch to add his wife to the BCA application
and reapply - causing him more inconvenience. Ive also seen that the branch staff enquired
to see if the funds could be credited to Mr Hs existing business savings account which was 
declined. Ive seen that Mr H was caused increased distress from what he felt was the loss
of more options to save his business after doing everything the bank was suggesting.
Mr H has told us he feels Co-op have treated him unfairly as he has repeatedly been given
false hope that hed be able to get a Bounce Back Loan, which has affected his mental
health. Although I dont disagree with Co-ops reasons for declining Mr Hs BCA application, I
think it was reasonable for him to believe that his loan application had been successful once
hed received the confirmation from the bank and that hed be receiving the funds shortly.
This then meant when the loan funds werent available as expected that Mr H was
distressed and upset  which only increased each time another option was unsuccessful.Its not for me to fine or punish a business for making a mistake, but I dont think Co-op
processed Mr Hs Bounce Back Loan application in a reasonable way so Im upholding this
part of Mr Hs complaint. Its clear the banks handling of his application, and subsequent
errors have caused Mr H distress and inconvenience, so to put things right I think Co-op
should increase the amount of compensation by a further £150 to address this.
I invited Mr H and Co-op to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to 
consider before issuing my final decision. Co-op accepted the decision with nothing further 
to add. Mr H didnt accept the decision. In summary he said:
Hed made Co-op aware around 20 years ago of his dyslexia thats why he asked for 
help opening the original account;
Hed made the application for a Bounce Back Loan using his personal current 
account and it was only after the loan was agreed the bank declined his application 
as he had a business savings account;
The Co-op gave him false hope by asking him to do different things to try and get the 
loan which had impacted his health as he was relying on the loan to keep things 
going  so he felt the £300 compensation was insulting;
It wasnt fair to say his wife should have helped him as she had her own jobs to do to 
support him financially.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion I did in my provisional decision. 
Mr Hs has explained that he told Co-op about his dyslexia when he opened the original 
account with them, and that may well be the case. However, the DISP rules dont allow us to 
look at every complaint and Mr H didnt bring this part of his complaint in time. So I cant 
comment on what Co-op did at this time. 
Mr H has also said he doesnt feel its reasonable for the bank to say that his wife should 
have supported him with completing the application. However, its not unusual for a bank to 
suggest that if a customer is aware they may struggle with documents that they ask for a 
friend or relative to assist them. I think this is reasonable to protect both parties. 
I acknowledge Mr Hs frustration that Co-op initially accepted his loan application using his 
personal current account. However, Co-ops lending criteria is that they require those looking 
to obtain a Bounce Back Loan to have a BCA with them - and I think its reasonable for them 
to do so. In this case Mr H didnt meet the banks criteria when they assessed his account 
applications, so I dont think Co-op treated Mr H unfairly by not giving him the BCA and 
therefore the Bounce Back Loan. 
Mr H has told us in detail the upset caused by Co-ops actions. I recognise this has been a 
stressful time for him due to the circumstances caused by the pandemic, and therefore the 
Co-ops actions had a bigger impact. I agree that the Co-op caused Mr H distress as he said 
hed repeatedly been given hope which had been taken away, but I have considered this in 
the award for distress and inconvenience. I recognise that Mr H feels strongly about this and I understand why he may feel the 
compensation amount was too low. But based on everything Ive seen, I feel that the 
additional £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair given the circumstances 
of the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I instruct The Co-operative Bank Plc 
to pay Mr H a further £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman