DRN-2563716
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC havent fully refunded him after he was the 
victim of a scam. Its reimbursed 50% of a £5,600 loss but has said Mr M ought to bear 
responsibility for the other half.
What happened
The circumstances of this case are well known to both parties and so I dont intend to go into 
great detail about what happened.
Mr M found someone on a social media platform who said they were able to place 
investments for people and make substantial returns. But the profile was in fact controlled by 
a scammer.
Mr M didnt know this at the time he started to follow the profile and he was interested in the 
investment opportunity presented. He contacted the scammer and was told he could invest 
£600 and see it turned into £15,000 within twenty minutes.
Mr M said:
he could see testimonials from other people that had previously invested;
he was sent a copy of terms and conditions that would apply to his investment;
he was given an address which the scammer said was the office location of the 
investment company he worked for, though no company name was given.
Mr M went ahead with the £600 investment and sent it to the account details he was given. 
Shortly after, the scammer confirmed hed made the substantial returns promised but that a 
release fee was due before Mr M could get his money. Mr M paid this but then more fees 
and charges were presented by the scammer. Mr M paid these to different accounts, as 
instructed, up to the point he ran out of money and the scammer became unresponsive.
Mr M contacted his bank to report hed been the victim of a scam. But Barclays didnt do 
what it ought to have, as it delayed in contacting one of the receiving banks.
Barclays accepted Mr M had been the victim of a scam and recognised it ought to have 
acted more quickly to try and recover Mr Ms loss. And so it said it would refund 50% of the 
money. It declined to refund the rest as it didnt feel Mr M had carried out enough checks to 
ensure the investment opportunity was legitimate.
Here, it had considered its obligations under the Lending Standards Board Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, of which it is a signatory. The Code requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. Barclays says one of the exceptions in the Code applies, in that it 
believes Mr M didnt have a reasonable basis for believing the purpose of his payments was 
legitimate. It also said that hed ignored warnings about scams which had been presented 
when he was making the payments.
Mr M wasnt happy with the banks response. He felt that its delay in pursuing the receiving 
bank had led to his money being irrecoverable. And so he brought his complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld, with 
Mr M receiving a full refund. He felt that the bank hadnt been able to establish that either of 
the exceptions to refund applied and so it ought have refunded Mr M.
The bank disagreed and so the case has been referred to me for a final decision. Ive since 
discussed the outcome with both parties and have explained that I dont believe the case 
should be upheld. Broadly speaking, that is on the grounds that I didnt believe Mr M had a 
reasonable basis for believing the investment opportunity, or the parties he was dealing with, 
was legitimate. I thought the bank had made some mistakes but that it had fairly 
compensated Mr M for them.
Both the bank and Mr M have accepted what Ive said and so Ill confirm my findings in this 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Mr M authorised the payments that are the subject of this complaint, 
even though he did so as a result of being deceived by fraudsters. Broadly speaking, under 
the account terms and conditions and the Payment Service Regulations 2017, he would 
normally be liable for them. But that isnt the end of the story.
Where a customer has been the victim of a scam it may be appropriate for the bank to 
reimburse the customer, even though payments have been properly authorised. Of particular 
relevance to the question of what is fair and reasonable in this case is the Lending 
Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code), which 
Barclays has signed up to.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam, like Mr M. The circumstances where a firm may choose not to 
reimburse are limited and it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their 
requisite level of care, as set out in the Code.
One such circumstance might be when it can be demonstrated that the customer made the 
payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that:
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay;
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate.
In considering these points account should be taken of all of the circumstances of the case, 
including the characteristics of the customer and the complexity of the scam.
Barclays has said it wont refund Mr Ms loss as it doesnt think he had a reasonable basis 
for belief. In particular, it thinks Mr M ought to have questioned the unrealistic rate of return 
and done more to verify the trader was legitimate.
Im in agreement with Barclays on this and its why Im not telling the bank it needs to 
provide further reimbursement. Ill explain why.
I find that the promised rate of return and the speed at which it would be generated  turning 
£600 into £15,000, within twenty minutes  ought to have raised significant questions with 
Mr M. Im in agreement with Barclays that it simply sounds too good to be true and that Mr M 
ought reasonably to have been sceptical about what he was being told. The same can be 
said of developments prior to Mr M making the subsequent payments, when he was told 
there were numerous fees and charges now payable. I appreciate the first such fee might 
have been expected, given it was set out in the terms and conditions. But Mr M ought already have been suspicious, and the payments that followed were for previously 
unspecified reasons and were being applied as penalties for Mr M taking too long. Im 
satisfied this ought to have caused further concern to Mr M as each new charge was 
presented. 
Mr M has said he did carry out some checks in order to establish the legitimacy of what he 
was doing. But I dont find these checks were sufficient in light of the improbable returns 
promised.
Mr M doesnt appear to have made an attempt to verify the reviews or posts on the traders 
social media page, even though I can see why Mr M would have taken some comfort from 
the activity there.
Mr M says he checked the address he was given for the investment company the trades 
were being actioned through. But he was never actually given a company name and so 
carried out no checks against it. There was nothing to link the address hed been given to 
the company at the address he searched. Nor was there anything to connect the scammer to 
the address or the firm that seemed to operate from it.
With all of the above in mind, I consider that the promised returns were so unlikely that Mr M 
ought to have had significant concern about the legitimacy of the opportunity. That, in turn, 
ought to have led to a greater degree of checking on Mr Ms part. Im satisfied that a suitable 
level of checks would have revealed the opportunity to be a scam. In not carrying out 
sufficient checks I dont find he had a reasonable basis for believing the opportunity was 
legitimate and so, under the CRM Code, he bears some responsibility for his loss.
Should Barclays have done more to try to prevent the scam and protect Mr M?
Ive thought about whether Barclays did enough to protect Mr M from financial harm. 
The CRM Code says that where firms identify APP scam risks in a payment journey, they 
should provide Effective Warnings to their customers. The Code also says that the 
assessment of whether a firm has met a standard or not should involve consideration of 
whether compliance with that standard would have had a material effect on preventing the 
scam. 
I am also mindful that when Mr M made this payment, Barclays should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
Ive considered the payments Mr M made, the overall pattern of spending, as well as the 
reason Mr M gave for the payments. 
When asked what the payments were for, on his mobile banking app, Mr M selected family 
and friends. He then made what I consider to be a series of payments which begin as 
unremarkable, in that I dont think they stood out enough for Barclays to have been 
concerned that he might have been at risk of financial harm from fraud at the time he made 
them. And so Id not necessarily expect the bank to have stepped in to question the 
payments or go further than it did to provide effective warnings.
It might be said that by the time of the fifth payment, after a second payee is established, the 
spending becomes more unusual. But I have to consider other points before reaching a 
conclusion here.
Ive thought about the number of new payees Mr M was paying, as well as the speed of 
payments. Had Mr M selected the investment reason for making payment, I think Barclays 
wouldve had legitimate reasons for questioning why he was making multiple low value 
payments to different payees. But in this case, as Mr M selected family and friends or 
other as the payment purpose. The payments wouldve appeared less suspicious to 
Barclays, as there are genuine reasons why you may pay a number of friends or family 
payments of this type over a short period of time. Ive asked Mr M why he chose the friends and family or other as the payment option. He cant remember why but he doesnt think he 
was told to do so by the scammer. But, by doing so, I think Mr M made it harder for Barclays 
to detect that he was at risk of financial harm and for Barclays to protect him. And it certainly 
meant the warnings he was given didnt relate to the payments he was making.
There is an argument to say that the payments had become unusual enough for Barclays to 
step in and question them further though. As Ive said, that would be after payment number 
five (after which £3,000 was sent to the scammers). The bank might have phoned Mr M or 
blocked his account until he made contact with it. And, in some cases, where a bank has not 
fulfilled its obligations to protect a customer, this could mean that the bank becomes 
responsible for refunding some or all of a customers loss. Here, because of what Ive said 
about Mr Ms reasonable basis for belief, it would lead to a refund of 50% of the money lost 
as a maximum and from the point at which the bank ought to have done more. That could 
lead to a reimbursement of £1,500 in Mr Ms case. 
Barclays has already refunded half of Mr Ms loss. It did so because it delayed contacting the 
bank at which one of the receiving accounts was held. And it did so without waiting to check 
with the receiving bank to see if the delay had actually prevented the recovery of any funds. I 
view this as a positive gesture from Barclays, having recognised it did something wrong. And 
I also recognise that Barclays has refunded more than it might otherwise have been 
expected to. I say this as it was actually only £1,000 that was sent to another bank. The rest 
of the funds went to accounts held at Barclays. As such its been able to review those 
accounts and can see that the money had already been removed before Mr M reported the 
scam. That means any money that went to those Barclays accounts was irrecoverable and 
so the bank wouldnt have been able to return anything.
This then leaves a position where Barclays has already fairly compensated Mr M for the 
errors it made. Thats in terms of both the delay in contacting the receiving banks, and the 
potential financial impact there, and in not flagging the payments once they became unusual 
to the point where Barclays ought to have ensured effective warnings were being given. And 
so I dont find it needs to compensate Mr M any further.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman