DRN-4174105
The complaint
Miss M complains about advice she was given by Haven Insurance Company Limited after 
her car was stolen.
What happened
Miss M has car insurance underwritten by Haven. 
She reported her car stolen, but later advised Haven that the Police had recovered the 
vehicle. Miss Ms car was reportedly undamaged except for a missing licence plate and had 
been placed by the Police in storage.
Haven told Miss M she had two options. 
One, she might wish not to make a claim  which would protect her no claims discount 
(NCD)  particularly given that the excess on the policy was £1,000, which might exceed the 
storage and recovery costs in any case.
Or two, she could make a claim and have Haven recover the car from storage, pay the 
storage costs and inspect the car to confirm there was no damage. But in that case, she 
would lose a part of her NCD because the claim would be recorded  and would be recorded 
as a fault claim, because Haven wouldnt be able to recover their costs.
Miss M wasnt happy with this and complained to Haven. She thought Haven should pay the 
recovery and storage costs but not record the claim as a fault claim (and not reduce her 
NCD) because she hadnt been to blame for the fact the car was stolen.
When Haven maintained their stance, Miss M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think Haven had done anything wrong.
Miss M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ms policy is clear that where a fault claim is made, the policyholder will lose part of 
their NCD, unless theyd opted to pay an extra premium to protect the NCD in those 
circumstances  which Miss M didnt do.
That being the case, Im satisfied that Haven have given the correct advice to Miss M. Her 
options were to make a claim and lose the NCD  and have the claim recorded as a fault 
claim. Or not to make a claim and pay for the storage costs herself. I understand Haven 
have  as a gesture of goodwill - paid for Miss Ms car to be returned to her address.
I can understand Miss Ms confusion and frustration at the claim potentially being recorded 
as a fault claim. But what that means, to Haven and to any insurer who might see and use 
that information in future, is not that Miss M was to blame for the event, but simply that 
Haven were unable to recover the cost of settling the claim.
When insurers calculate the premium theyre proposing to charge for a policy  for either an 
existing or potential future customer - theyre looking at the risk to them of having to pay out 
on a claim (and if so how likely they might be to be able to recover those costs). They then 
set the premium accordingly. 
The primary concern is not then whether a policyholder was morally to blame for a previous 
incident, but how that might reflect on the probability of such an incident occurring again in 
the future.
To put it bluntly, if Miss M made a claim, Haven are entitled to record it as a fault claim 
because they couldnt recover their costs. And thats what they  and other insurers  are 
legitimately interested in.
Its unfortunate for Miss M  and I can see how it might be seen as unfair  but the fact that 
her car has been stolen is likely to lead to increases in her premiums in future, whether 
through loss of her NCD or simply because she will appear to be more of a risk to potential 
future insurers.
In summary, Haven set out Miss Ms options accurately and fairly. It would never have been 
an option for Miss M to make the claim, have Haven pay the costs, but either not have the 
claim recorded at all or have it recorded as a non-fault claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman