DRN-3883170
The complaint
Mr G complains about the total loss settlement Admiral Insurance Company Limited offered 
when he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2022, whilst parked, Mr Gs car was damaged in a collision. His car was considered 
beyond economic repair, so Admiral settled Mr Gs claim as a total loss settlement, offering 
the market value for his car, in line with the policy. 
Mr G was unhappy with Admirals settlement figure of £6255. He said his car was a 
particularly rare model, but this hadnt been taken into account in the valuation process. But 
Admiral said it had followed the correct approach in deciding a valuation for his car, by 
relying on the motor trade guides. 
Mr G remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our investigator thought 
Admiral had reached its valuation fairly. Mr G didnt agree. So the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint. I know this will be disappointing news 
for him, so Ill explain my reasoning. 
Firstly, Id like to acknowledge that this has been a frustrating time for Mr G, whose car was 
damaged through no fault of his own. My role is to decide whether Admiral acted fairly and in 
line with the policy terms, when reaching a valuation figure for his car.
Mr Gs policy with Admiral says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value 
of the car. It defines this as: 
The cost of replacing your vehicle, with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
I accept that Mr Gs car is rare, which can present some additional challenges in valuation. 
From the evidence provided, I can see that Admiral obtained valuations using different motor 
trade guides. These produced figures of £5280, £6200 and £6255. Admiral offered the 
highest of the three as its settlement figure. 
Its standard industry practice, and our approach, to use these guides as a reliable way to 
reach a valuation. And when considering a valuation complaint, our service will review the 
trade guides to assess the overall fairness of the businesss valuation. Our investigator did 
this and obtained figures of £4,537, £6,095, £6,220 and £6,804. But due to the rarity of Mr 
Gs car, he also obtained a bespoke valuation, based on Mr Gs actual mileage and full 
specification. This valuation was for £6,410, comparatively close to Admirals figure. 
Ive also looked at the additional information Mr G provided, from a dealer specialising in his 
brand of car. But Im not persuaded this evidence demonstrates that Admiral acted unfairly in 
coming to the valuation it did. The dealer gave his opinion as to the likely value of the car - 
£8000  and said hed sold such a car for that price in 2000. But no other evidence was 
provided to suggest values had increased or that a similar model had sold recently for that 
price. 
Our service adopts a standard approach to looking at valuation complaints and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest it would be right to deviate from that approach in Mr Gs case. Overall, 
Im satisfied Admiral acted fairly and that the valuation figure for his car was reasonable. It 
follows I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman