DRN-3339167
The complaint
Ms R complains that HDI Global Specialty SE declined her claim and request for pre-
authorisation on her pet insurance policy. My references to HDI include its agents.
What happened
On 25 June 2021 Ms R took out lifetime pet insurance for her dog. HDI was the insurer.
On 2 August 2021 Ms R took her dog to a vet, which Ill refer to as S, as her dog was lame. 
S said a cruciate ligament problem was likely which x-rays confirmed. A claim was made for 
the cost of consultations and investigations and a pre-authorisation request was made for 
the cost of surgery.
HDI declined the claim and the pre-authorisation request. It said the dogs clinical history 
from a vet that Ill refer to as V showed that on 24 June 2021, the day before Ms R took out 
the policy, her dog had signs of cruciate problems. The policy didnt cover pre-existing 
conditions.  
HDI accepted it had delayed in assessing the pre-authorisation request and offered Ms R  
£30 compensation to apologise.
Ms R complained to us saying her dog didnt have cruciate problems before she took out the 
policy. She wants HDI to pay the vet costs she claimed and the surgery costs. She said she 
had to borrow money to pay the vet and was now in financial hardship.
Our investigator said HDI fairly declined the claim and pre-authorisation request.
Ms R disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary she said:
- She only used the vet at V for her dogs vaccinations and also used S. No one could 
know her dog had any cruciate problems without taking x-rays and a thorough 
examination. 
- Dogs limp for many reasons, not just cruciate problems. Ms R said her dog 
previously had a limp due to a cut and a grass seed in between the pads.
- Shed taken out pet insurance as her daughter said her dog was getting older and 
might need treatments in the future. She thought pet insurance was a waste of 
money and she said reviews of pet insurance show lots of insurers wrongly say a 
condition is pre-existing to not pay a claim.
- S said her dogs cruciate was completely ruptured and the dog couldn't put weight on 
her leg. Ms R said she wouldnt leave her dog like that from June to August 2021.
- Vs letter said they didnt find any evidence of a cruciate problem in June 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms R, particularly as shes in financial difficulty having paid the vet 
costs, but I dont uphold this complaint.
Ive noted her comments about reviews shes seen about pet insurance in general. But I 
have to decide if HDI fairly and reasonably declined the claim and pre-authorisation request 
on the policy terms and the vet evidence it had for Ms Rs dog, and I think it did. Ill explain 
why.
The policy covers the cost of vet fees for an accident, illness or injury subject to the policy 
terms and conditions and limits. The policy excludes claims relating to a pre-existing 
condition, which the policy defines as:
Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from an injury or illness, 
whether diagnosed or undiagnosed that has been identified or investigated by a vet 
or is otherwise known to you prior to the start of the insurance
The policy defines injury, which in summary means a clinical sign or symptoms of changes in 
normal healthy state resulting from an accident. The policy also defines illness, which in 
summary means changes in a pets state of health not caused by an accident.
Exclusions for pre-existing conditions are common in pet insurance policies and the above 
definitions arent unusual. 
Ive looked at the policy information given to Ms R at the time she bought the policy and sent 
to her after sale. In particular the insurance product information document (IPID), which sets 
out the key terms of the policy, says:
What is not insured?
Pre-existing conditions that have received treatment or have shown signs or 
symptoms before your policy started.
Im satisfied that in the IPID and other policy documents HDI gave Ms R clear information 
that claims relating to pre-existing conditions wouldnt be covered by the policy.
Ive looked at the clinical evidence from the vets to consider whether HDI fairly said Ms Rs 
dog was showing signs of cruciate problems before she took out the policy.
On 24 June 2021, the day before Ms R took out the policy, she took her dog to V for annual 
vaccinations. Vs clinical notes for that appointment say:
Intermittent lame LH (left hind). Skipping a bit and shorter that leg. Responds to rest 
but soon bad again once back to exerciselame responds to stifle flexion and some 
effusion there.
So theres evidence that before Ms R bought the policy she and V discussed the dogs 
intermittent lameness on her left hind leg which came on when she exercised.
Ms R provided additional information from V which said that on 24 June:
Ligaments of the hind limbs were palpably intact on that date, including the cruciate 
ligaments, and lameness was mild and intermittent. Further diagnostics were not 
performed so I cannot confirm nor deny there were cruciate ligament issues present 
at that point.
Ms R says Vs letter says they didnt find any evidence of a cruciate problem on 24 June 
2021. But that isnt what the letter says. V said Ms Rs dogs cruciate ligament was intact on 
that date but they couldnt say whether there were cruciate ligament issues present on that 
date as they didnt do further diagnostics. S vet notes for 2 August 2021, when they saw Ms Rs dog, say:
Lame left hind on and off 7-10 days. O thinks gets better with rest but then recurs, 
worse after lying down - finds it difficult to get up. NO known trauma she said her dog 
had hurt her leg and wasnt able to put weight on it. 
So the evidence in S records shows that the symptoms the dog had in August were similar, 
but worse, to those Ms R discussed with V in June. S suspected cruciate damage and the 
investigations confirmed signs of cruciate disease.
When assessing the claim and pre-authorisation request HDI sent the medical information 
and x-rays to an independent orthopaedic specialist vet. The specialist vets opinion was 
that:   
Given the lameness on the 24/6/21 and the subsequent diagnosis of cruciate 
disease over the preceding months it is clear that they are the same condition and as 
such would not be covered under the policy, especially given the understanding we 
have of cruciate diseases in dogs at this time.
So the specialist vets opinion is clear that the dogs lameness symptoms seen and 
discussed with V before the policy was taken out were symptoms of the cruciate problem 
later diagnosed by S and claimed for. Ms R says no one could know if her dog had cruciate 
problems before she took out the policy as no x-rays were taken then. But I think HDI could 
reasonably rely on the evidence of the specialist vet who saw all the medical evidence and 
x-rays in coming to his expert opinion. 
Ms R also says dogs can be lame for lots of reasons. But theres no evidence that her dogs 
lameness Ms R discussed with V on 24 June 2021, before the  policy was taken out, was 
caused by an accident or injury. And the vet at S wrote to HDI saying:
I (the vet) can confirm that the condition (cruciate disease) is not the result of an 
accident/illness. It is a degenerative disease that affects many breeds of dog, the 
predisposing factors are not clear.
So S, who investigated the lameness and who carried out the surgery, thought Ms Rs dogs 
cruciate problems was a disease which had progressively deteriorated over time. Those 
circumstances fit with the specialist vets opinion that the dog was showing signs of the 
cruciate disease before the policy was taken out.
Given the overall vet evidence I think HDI reasonably understood Ms Rs dogs intermittent 
lameness that she discussed with the vet at V the day before the policy started was a sign or 
symptom of the cruciate disease, which is the condition claimed for. I think HDI fairly used 
the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim and decline the pre-authorisation 
request.
If Ms R wants to accept the £30 compensation HDI offered for her distress and 
inconvenience due to its delay in assessing the pre-authorisation request she should contact 
HDI direct.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman