DRN-1550746
The complaint
Miss B complains about an overdraft she had with Nationwide.
What happened
Since 2017, Miss B had a number of arrangements with Nationwide to repay her overdraft. 
The aim of the arrangement was to reduce the overdraft by a set amount each month. 
The most recent arrangement was made in December 2018. Miss B and Nationwide came to 
an agreement where Miss Bs overdraft limit would reduce by £30 each month until the next 
review date. Miss B didnt pay enough each month, by the due date to keep within the 
agreed limit. Because of this Nationwide tried to contact her to recover the money she owed.
Miss B complains mainly about the information Nationwide has reported to the credit 
reference agency in relation to her account. And she says that the information Nationwide 
has reported about her has stopped her from being able to get a mortgage. Shes also said 
that she felt harassed by the calls from Nationwide. 
Our investigator looked into things for Miss B. He came to the opinion that Miss B hadnt 
kept to the arrangement to reduce her overdraft and so Nationwide hadnt done anything 
wrong in updating her credit file with this information.
Miss B didnt agree with our investigator, but she didnt tell us why. Because of this, the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And taking everything into consideration, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. I appreciate 
this will come as a disappointment to Miss B, but Ill explain the reasons for my decision 
below.
Miss Bs main complaint is about the information Nationwide has reported to the credit 
reference agencies. So, its for me to decide if it was fair for Nationwide to do this, and if the 
information it reported was accurate.
Ive looked at copies of Miss Bs statements and letters sent to her by Nationwide. I can see 
various payment arrangements had been put in place since 2017. And based on information 
from her statements and notes provided by Nationwide, I can see that on a number of 
occasions she failed to keep within the arrangement. This is because she often didnt pay 
enough each month to keep within the arrangement, or the payment to keep within the 
reduced balance was made late.
Miss B says she wasnt aware how much shed need to pay, or that interest and charges 
would still be applied to the account while she was in the arrangement. Ive seen notes from 
Nationwides systems that shows some of the conversations it had with Miss B about her account  and the various arrangements that have been in place. I can see that there have 
been discussions about the reducing limit and that Miss B had talked about how much she 
would pay each month to cover the reducing balance along with any interest and charges 
that were to be applied. Ive also seen a copy of one of the arrangement letters sent to Miss 
B dated 1 December 2018. Theres no mention on the letter that interest and charges would 
be frozen. Based on this, Im satisfied Nationwide let her know how the arrangement worked 
and that interest and charges would still be applied to the account.
The letter Ive seen dated 1 December 2018 doesnt state how much Miss B would need to 
pay. But it did say her overdraft limit would reduce by £30 each month, on the 15th day of 
each month. I can also see from call notes that it spoke to her about this arrangement on  30 
November 2018.  Ive looked at the statement dated 4 December 2018, I can see that Miss B 
made two payments to the account to reduce the balance on 30 November 2018, but these 
payments still didnt keep the account within the limit. And on 17 December 2018, Miss B 
transferred £30 out of the account, taking the account over the limit further  resulting in a 
failed arrangement.
The letter Ive mentioned from December 2018 states that Nationwide would let the credit 
reference agencies know about the account limit and the account balance. It also states that 
this might affect her credit rating and could make it difficult to obtain credit in the future. The 
terms and conditions of Miss Bs account also state that if a debt is owed, and not repaid in 
full on time, then this information may be provided to the credit reference agencies. So I 
think Miss B ought to have been aware of what might happen if she didnt keep to the 
arrangement.
Nationwide has an obligation to report to the credit reference agencies information that is 
correct and accurate about a persons payment history. As Ive said, Miss B didnt always 
keep within the agreed limit, and from looking at the screen shots Miss B has sent me of her 
credit file, and her statements, I think the information Nationwide has reported to the credit 
reference agency is correct.
Miss B says she felt harassed by the number of calls she received from Nationwide. 
Nationwide were within its rights to recover the debt Miss B owed. I can see that it tried to 
contact Miss B on numerous occasions, but from what Ive seen, I dont find the number of 
attempts to contact her unreasonable.
Because of this, I cant say that Nationwide has acted unfairly in updating Miss Bs credit file. 
Or that the number of calls it made to her was excessive. And for this reason, Im not going 
to ask it to do anything more for Miss B.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I don't uphold Miss B's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman