DRN-3011339
The complaint
Mr M complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (Halifax), didnt pay his 
unemployment claim in 2005 on the payment protection insurance (PPI) policy he held with 
his mortgage. As a result, Mr M says his house was repossessed, and he says he suffered a 
financial loss of £400,000 which he wanted Halifax to put right.
 
What happened
In 2003 Mr M took a PPI policy with his mortgage. He told us he made a claim on the policy 
when he became unemployed in 2005. He said the claim was rejected and he lost his home 
because he was unable to keep up the mortgage repayments.
Mr M had already brought a complaint to this service about the business as he thought the 
mortgage PPI policy had been mis-sold to him. We agreed the policy had been mis-sold and 
Halifax was to pay compensation for this.
Our adjudicator who considered this complaint didnt uphold it. Halifax didnt have any record 
of a claim rejected in 2005. And in any event, if Mr M needed to make a claim on the policy it 
would be against the insurance company, Halifax Insurance Ireland Limited (HIIL), and not 
Halifax itself.
The adjudicator also reviewed the offer of compensation for Mr Ms mis-sale complaint and 
was satisfied it was fair. He did point out to Mr M that the compensation calculations showed 
that the PPI policy ended in 2004 so wasnt in place in 2005 when Mr M says he made his 
unemployment claim.
 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He also 
questioned why his policy had only been in place for a year and not renewed. As the 
complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision I am considering Mr Ms complaint about the claim he says was rejected in 
2005. The mis-sale complaint I have referred to has been resolved by an adjudicator, and I 
dont intend to comment on that complaint other than to say I agree that the compensation 
for the mis-sale has been calculated as I would expect. 
Looking at the policy Mr M had I see that it was to provide cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. Unfortunately, Mr M lost his job in 2005 and needed to claim on the policy. 
Halifax has told us it has no records of a rejected claim. And it gave us a copy of a letter it 
had sent to Mr M in December 2020 directing him to the insurer  Halifax Insurance Ireland 
Limited  if he wanted to make a claim. 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, sold Mr M the policy at the same time as providing 
the credit for his mortgage lending. But it was not the underlying insurer for the policy, that 
was HIIL and Mr M would have needed to have contacted HIIL to make a claim. 
However, as commented upon by the adjudicator, the policy was cancelled in 2004 so 
wasnt running when Mr M needed to make a claim in 2005. In his response to the 
adjudicator Mr M has asked why it wasnt renewed and only ran between 2003 and 2004. 
The mortgage PPI was a standalone product. It, and the monthly premiums to pay for it, 
were separate from the mortgage itself. Looking at the records of the premiums it looks likely 
it was cancelled because it went into arrears. But this is something that Mr M would need to 
take up with HIIL. 
I am sorry that Mr M has lost his home. But I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Halifax 
being responsible for the financial losses he suffered as a result of that. Halifax isnt 
responsible for the unemployment claim that Mr M has told us was rejected in 2005. As Mr M 
has already been advised by Halifax, any claims on the policy should be made against the 
policy insurer, HIIL. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Bank of Scotland 
plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman