DRN-3631066
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of his claim for water damage 
under a commercial insurance policy. Mr P is also unhappy about his loss of rent and UKI 
not continuing to offer him insurance cover at the property.
When referring to representatives of UKI Ill usually just refer to UKI.
What happened
Mr Ps property suffered a large claim. UKI was completing repairs when on a visit Mr P 
discovered water in the basement of the property. UKI were contacted and an inspection 
was arranged. The inspector couldnt work out where the water was coming from, he didnt 
think it was linked to the previous claim. The inspector advised Mr P to start a second 
separate claim for the damage caused by the water.
Mr P did start a second claim and experts were appointed to review the damage. The 
experts came up with two potential causes of the damage. So UKI said either there had 
been an escape of water from a neighbouring property or there had been a rise in the water 
table. UKI declined the claim as no valid event had occurred in line with the policy wording. 
UKI said Mr P would need to identify a cause that would lead to a valid claim.
Mr P had the damage repaired by his contractor B who said this water wasnt the water 
table or ground water. B said, it looks like the water leaked from the above floor which 
ended up in the basement, the leak may be repaired by the workers and not mentioned 
probably.
UKI went back to their surveyor S" who had worked on the previous original claim. He made 
several points My best opinion based on a visual inspection only is that the water is natural 
rising ground water and this is based on the following;
All above ground water appliances and pipework that were altered/affected or renewed 
by the fire damage reinstatement have been checked and this is no evidence of leakage 
or fault.
There is no current water usage in the building so I would imagine the levels would drop 
if leaking from a water use appliance such as a wc or basin.
There is no evidence of water staining in either the floor or walls to the rear kitchen area 
which would be indicative of a sub-floor or hidden leak.
There are no water appliances at basement level and there is no evidence of staining in 
the rear retaining walls suggesting that there might be a hidden leak from the ground 
floor level kitchen area.
Mr P's other advisors noted that the incoming water supply was switched off for a good 
length of time and there was no drop in water level which surely would be the case if a 
defective main or continual pipe leak was the source of water.
Given all these circumstances it is difficult to conclude that the water is any other than rising 
ground water.
R who also originally inspected the property for Mr P also said it was groundwater.
Our investigator initially didnt uphold the complaint. She said S was the most qualified 
person to review the water damage and others had agreed with his findings. So, she 
accepted that the damage was caused by groundwater and UKI acted reasonably when it 
declined to deal with the claim.
Mr P didnt accept this. At this point he said there was a sink above the basement which had 
a slowly leaking pipe underneath it. He said this caused the water in the basement. He said 
those working on the previous insurance claim had come in to work on the repair one day 
and found the leak. Our investigator pointed out that B had made no reference to this 
previously but now after a request was made for further information said after visiting the 
site I clarified you that water came from the floor as sink pipe was leaking. The workers from 
contractor fix later and as per your instructions we carried out work in basement pump out 
water dried and make habitable.
Our investigator passed this further information back to UKI for consideration. UKI wondered 
why the contractor only mentioned this more than a year later and only after this service 
hadnt upheld the complaint. UKI asked for evidential records of receipts, repair invoices or a 
schedule of work to substantiate that these works did take place. UKI said if this was 
provided it would go back to the experts to review the claim further.
Mr P also produced details from the water authority but UKI pointed out that this showed 
there were no defects with the drains and sewers. It didnt have any bearing on water table 
or ground water levels. Our investigator thought the offer to review based on evidence being 
provided was fair so maintained that the complaint at this time couldnt be upheld.
Mr P still said this was the wrong outcome. He then produced evidence from his local council 
which confirmed his area didnt suffer from groundwater flooding. Our investigator provided 
this information to UKI, but it never responded. On top of Bs evidence noted above about 
the sink that was leaking into the basement our investigator felt she as UKI hadnt responded 
she now had to uphold the complaint. She said Mr P had done enough to prove he had a 
valid claim under the policy. She said UKI should pay the claim for necessary repairs.
UKI didnt accept this and the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Following the claim, the original report from UKIs loss adjuster said:
Initially it was thought that the damage may have been as a result of defective repairs 
during the course of the reinstatement of the fire damage and the appointed Surveyors and 
contractors attended site shortly after discovery. It was promptly established that the 
damage was unrelated to the reinstatement works following the fire and that the damage 
was either as a result of a natural rise in the level of the water table or a problem with a 
neighbouring property.
We discussed matters in detail with the Surveyors dealing with the earlier fire damagewe 
advised the Insured that it was for him to demonstrate causation and we suggested to him 
that he engaged Surveyors to assist him in this matter. We heard nothing further. Indeed, we 
have heard nothing at all from Mr P during the currency of this claim.
Within the final response letter issued by UKI when it declined to deal with the claim it said:All above ground water appliances and pipework that were altered/affected or renewed by 
the [previous claim] have been checked and there is no evidence of leakage or fault. There 
is no current water usage in the building so they would imagine the levels would drop if 
leaking from a water use appliance such as a wc or basin. There is no evidence of water 
staining in either the floor or walls to the rear kitchen area which would be indicative of a 
sub-floor or hidden leak.
There are no water appliances at basement level and there is no evidence of staining in the 
rear retaining walls suggesting that there might be a hidden leak from the ground floor level 
kitchen area.
Mr P's other advisors noted that the incoming water supply was switched off for a good 
length of time and there was no drop in water level which surely would be the case if a 
defective main or continual pipe leak was the source of water.
When passing its file to this service UKI said:
Our Claims Department forwarded the report to the Loss Adjuster who liaised with S who 
said The report prepared by B does not provide any evidence that the water in the basement 
is due to a leak from water apparatus and is not water rising ground water, if the water 
supply to the building were isolated surely they would expect the water level to recede over a 
period of time. B did not record any change in the level of water in the basement.
S followed up by saying as I have previously noted, there is no evidence of a damp or water 
leakage at any location in the rear ground floor areas. Secondly, if the leak had been caused 
by a one off event from the contractors. Then surely this would drain away over a period of 
time.
The report by B has only served to reinforce your opinion that this is rising ground water and 
does not really change the position.
S later concluded by laying out the five bullet points Ive noted above in the background 
section of this decision. He was clear that it was hard to come to any other conclusion than 
rising ground water had caused the damage.
Mr P did provide further points for consideration and UKI further updated saying:
I have quickly reviewed the further information and this does not change my view on the 
source of water within the basement. I refer to my e-mail which fully details my reasoning on 
why I do not think the water could come from a sink at ground floor level, primarily the 
absence of any obvious staining to the high level walls and ceiling within the basement area.
Additionally, in their report dated 6 August 2020 B suggested that "the leak may be repaired 
by workers and not mentioned probably". In the further information the contractor seems to 
indicate they fixed the pipe rather than the repair having been undertaken by others - this is 
somewhat contradictory. Finally, I will mention paragraph 1.23 of the report by R states that 
in their opinion the most likely source of water at basement level would be ground water.
I should also note that flooding a basement this size with about 100mm of standing water 
would require a very substantial leak indeed and I cannot see how this would have 
emanated from a sink at first floor level without causing extensive damage at ground floor 
structure level.
Regarding the further information from Mr P about a leak after this service didnt uphold the 
complaint UKI said I'm struggling to understand why it has taken Mr P's contractor more than a year to confirm that a leak was identified as the source of the water ingress, as the 
documentation previously supplied by the contractor did not substantiate this and made no 
reference to a pipe repair being fixed. Had this information been provided during the course 
of the investigation the outcome may have been different. It asked for evidence but as Mr P 
stated he didnt get his contractor to do any repairs.
I find this evidence persuasive. UKI pointed out that one of the experts appointed by Mr P 
agreed that the water was likely to be groundwater. I think UKI have shown that theres no 
evidence to link the water to any internal appliance. I accept UKIs point that Mr P didnt 
make any point about the damage being caused by the sink until after this service had not 
upheld the complaint.
It was helpful that Mr P contacted the water authority and the local council. The local council 
said the area Mr P is based in is not an area susceptible to ground water flooding. And the 
water authority confirmed there was no issues with the local underground services it 
provides in that area. UKI in response to the water authority said, This doesn't have any 
bearing on the ground water level which is caused by changes in precipitation between 
seasons and years. Ive no reason to doubt what the parties said or what UKI said in 
response.
loss of rent
Mr P said as it took a lot longer than it shouldve done to get the property available for rental 
again and UKI should be paying him for the period. The previous claim was 90% completed 
when the water damage claim arose. And it took several months to get this water damage 
issue resolved. Mr P feels this is down to UKI. It seems that somewhere along the line there 
was a breakdown in the communication. UKI said it had told Mr P the claim wouldnt be dealt 
with and this is mentioned in the loss adjusters report. But Mr P said he wasnt aware the 
claim had been closed. UKI said that it accepted there were some issues and a couple of 
delays. So, it offered £100 as a gesture of goodwill to deal with that. So, I think the offer was 
reasonable and I dont think it can be held responsible for loss of rent as this claim wasnt 
covered under the policy.
insurance policy cover
Part of Mr Ps initial complaint was that UKI would no longer continue providing insurance 
cover for him under this policy. Im not clear why or if UKI stopped the policy cover. I can 
understand that this was a worrying time for Mr P when he was either without policy cover or 
was given the impression by UKI he was without cover. Im not sure if this was a part of 
Mr Ps original complaint to UKI as it doesnt appear to have made any comment on this 
point. Also, I think Mr P mentioned that he had eventually found insurance elsewhere. It 
maybe that this issue hasnt been addressed and should be discussed further directly 
between Mr P and UKI.
surveyor costs
UKI did consider Mr Ps surveyor costs, but it said that it would need to have accepted the 
claim was valid before it would be willing to pay the amounts involved. I think thats a 
reasonable answer I dont think UKI has to pay this amount.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKI accepted my provisional decision.
Mr P made several points. The main factors Ill refer to here:Mr P said he was still waiting for an update on his audit trail request from UKI. Mr P referred 
to the extended amount of time taken to return his property to 90% completed and how he 
shouldnt have been asked to visit the property until it was fully done. Mr P said items were 
not completed that should have been in line with the original tender, and this remained the 
case for much longer than it should have. Mr P said it was only at this late stage a second 
claim was started involving the loss adjusters and the engineers again. Mr P said he didnt 
know why the loss adjuster didnt request a water testing kit prior to making the decision that 
the issue was rising water. Mr P said eventually the amount for a damaged extractor was 
paid.
Regarding the rent Mr P said hes been paid £26,000 and £16,329.99 not the total of 
£54,000. Mr P says £11,670 remains outstanding.
Regarding the tender Mr P said the tender was £137,000 but the final costs were 
£274,029.27 which he is still out of pocket for a lot of the amounts. Mr P wants these issues 
looked into as part of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think some of the issues raised now by Mr P were part of his original complaint to this 
service. The way hes mentioned them it feels as if Mr P is really referring to his original 
claim. Not the water damage claim this complaint is about. If Mr P is referring to his previous 
original claim then that is a matter for him to discuss with UKI.
Im not sure what Mr P will get from his audit request to UKI that would fundamentally 
change the facts and evidence surrounding this water damage claim. The main point of his 
complaint was that the water damage wasnt being paid for by UKI. Ive seen no further 
evidence about this to suggest I need to change my provisional decision.
I think UKI acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the water damage claim. I think 
UKI made a reasonable offer of compensation for any delay linked to this claim. The points 
about rent and the tender costs appear linked to Mr Ps original claim, not this complaint 
about the water damage claim. As I dont think UKI acted unfairly or unreasonably in how it 
dealt with the water damage I dont think I need to change my provisional decision points 
about loss of rent, policy cover or the surveyor costs either.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman