DRN-4193591
The complaint
Ms K has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has refused to refund her money she 
lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Ms K was looking to invest money and found an advertisement online for investing. Ms K 
signed up online with her contact details. She was subsequently contacted by a scammer 
who claimed to be a specialist in trading. As this was of interest to Ms K, the scammer 
proceeded to ask Ms K to download remote access software so they could help Ms K 
trade.
Ms K was convinced to make debit card payments to Plus Options which were as follows
Transaction 
NumberDate Merchant Amount Running Total
1 13/07/2017 Plus Option £250 £250
2 14/07/2017 Plus Option £500 £750
3 17/07/2017 Plus Option £2,500 £3,250
4 17/07/2017 Plus Option £2,500 £5,750
5 17/07/2017 Plus Option £5,000 £10,750
Ms K later attempted to withdraw her funds from Plus Options but she was unable to do so. 
Some years later Ms K realised that she had been scammed. Our Investigator considered 
Ms Ks complaint and thought it should be upheld. She thought that as there was an 
International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) warning over a month prior 
to the first transaction and as such it should have triggered Lloydss fraud prevention 
measures, and it should have stepped in at this stage to ask probing questions about the 
payments.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 August 2023 in which I said the following;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The circumstances of this complaint are not in dispute and the evidence provided by both Ms 
K and Lloyds set out what happened. What is in dispute is whether Lloyds should refund any 
of the money Ms K lost because of the scam.
Ms K has accepted she authorised the payments she made to Plus Option, so the starting 
point here is that Ms K is responsible for making the payments. However, banks and other 
Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial 
loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against 
money laundering.
I note that there was an FCA warning about Plus Option although the FCAs announcements 
came after Ms K made her payments, there were though warnings about the company on 
the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) website which pre-dated 
her payments. I note Lloyds comments on this point as it says it does not use IOSCO but 
Lloyds should be aware of our approach that it is good industry practice for firms to have up- 
to-date watch-lists which cover the common types of scams and potential fraudsters and for 
those watch-lists to be communicated internally with staff within one month of an alert being 
posted by the FCA or IOSCO. Such an alert should automatically trigger its systems and 
lead to payments being paused, pending further intervention  such as making enquiries 
and/or giving a scam warning. Given the existing IOSCO warning I think Lloyds ought to 
have intervened when Ms K tried to make the first debit card payment.
So I believe at this stage, Lloyds should have stepped in and asked Ms K in depth questions 
to find out what the payments related to. Had Lloyds stepped in at this point, I think its likely 
Ms K would have explained the reason she was suddenly making payments from her card to 
Plus Option.
Lloyds would likely have discovered that Ms K was allowing a third-party access to her 
computer and that the funds sent to Plus Option were intended to be traded on her behalf by 
a third party. This has all the hallmarks of a scam. Im satisfied that a warning to Ms K from 
her trusted bank would have probably alerted her to the common issues arising in relation to 
scams, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind the scammers representations. 
This would have probably stopped Ms K in her tracks. So, but for Lloydss failure to act on 
clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Ms K probably wouldnt have continued to 
make the additional payments.
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their actions. In this case, Ms K has confirmed that she did not do any 
research on Plus Option - which I would have expected someone to have done when making 
an investment with a company.
I can also see from the documents provided that Ms K was promised potential returns of 
over 100% in 30 Days, which is more than a little unrealistic. I can also see that Ms K was 
promised unrealistic cash bonuses that would make no sense for a professional company to 
offer, such as if Ms K invested £10,000 Plus Option would credit her a bonus of £5,000 and 
this would give her a potential pay out of £26,250. All of this sounds too good to be true. 
Even for an inexperienced investor, I think this ought to have prompted concerns and led Ms 
K to question what she was being offered, but it doesnt appear that any of these warning 
signs were acted upon. As a result, I intend to say that a deduction in compensation of 50% 
in recognition of Ms Ks share of responsibility is warranted, which I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I currently intend to tell Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Lloyds Bank, to do the following:
1) Refund 50% of the disputed transactions;2) Pay simple interest on the above amounts at 8% per year, calculated from the date each 
payment was made, until the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
In response to my decision Ms K did not disagree, Lloyds responded and raised a number of 
points, these included:
The IOSCO warning is not sufficiently detailed and different variations of the 
company name do not bring up the same warning and it would not be fair or 
reasonable to draw a conclusion that a UK based bank would be able to act with 
such limited context and without comprehensive evidence
They have limited ability to prevent debit card payments
There was no FCA warning until after the transactions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to stress that I have considered all of the points that both parties raised but I will 
focus on what I think is most relevant to the outcome of this complaint.
Lloyds has argued that IOSCO warning was not sufficiently detailed as the name featured on 
Ms Ks statement wasnt an exact match for the name featured in the IOSCO warning. I 
accept the company name is shown differently on the statement, but I dont think that a 
hyphen in the name is enough of a difference to have made Lloyds think that the warning 
related to a different company. I think Lloyds systems should reasonably have detected that 
the name was practically identical to one with an IOSCO warning and should have, at the 
very least, prompted a conversation with the consumer prior to the transactions being 
approved.
Lloyds has said that it has limited ability to prevent debit card payments, but it can stop them 
if it believes that there is a possibility of fraud or a scam.
I accept that there was no FCA warning at the time, but for the reasons given above, I think 
that an IOSCO warning was sufficient to prompt a conversation with Ms K. 
I also remain of the opinion that had a conversation occurred Ms K would have explained 
what she was doing and Lloyds would have been able to highlight that it was likely that she 
was being scammed. I say this because a probing and detailed conversation would have 
uncovered that Ms K was buying crypto that she was forwarding on to a trading platform 
and that she had allowed third party access to her computer. All of this points towards a 
scam. So whilst I note that the IOSCO warning relates to Australia I think it was enough to at 
the very least prompt a discussion with Ms K and I think a warning at this point from her 
trusted bank would have stopped Ms K from investing.
So for the reasons above and in my provisional decision I think that this complaint should be 
upheld in part.
Putting things right 
Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Lloyds Bank should do the following:
1) Refund 50% of the disputed transactions;2) Pay simple interest on the above amounts at 8% per year, calculated from the date each 
payment was made, until the date of settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and require 
Lloyds Bank PLC, to put matters right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman