DRN-4411464
The complaint
Miss F says Lloyds Bank PLC irresponsibly lent to her. 
What happened
Miss F opened a credit card with Lloyds in November 2012. She was given a £750 credit 
limit; this was increased to £1,250 in August 2013 and to £1,750 in September 2014. It was 
then reduced to £1,700 in December 2019.
Miss F says this credit card has caused her financial difficulties. The limit should never have 
been increased and it was clear she was struggling, using the card to pay for day-to-day 
essentials. 
Lloyds initially said Miss F had brought her complaint too late so it could not consider its 
merits. This service disagreed and explained why Miss Fs complaint could be reviewed 
under the rules we must follow. Lloyds accepted this decision. But it said, due to the time 
that had passed, the information relating to the affordability assessments and the credit 
checks no longer exists. 
Our investigator did not uphold Miss Fs complaint. He explained it wasnt unreasonable 
Lloyds no longer has the information it used to make its lending decisions given they were so 
long ago. To assess its decisions he reviewed Miss Fs bank statements from the months 
prior to each decision. From these he could not conclude Lloyds was wrong to lend to     
Miss F.
Miss F disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. She said, in summary, when the 
card was opened the limit given was higher than her monthly salary, as it was when the 
increases were given. She asks how this can be acceptable and how would just a £50 limit 
reduction have helped. She is still struggling to repay this credit. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending - including all the relevant rules,
guidance and good industry practice - is set out on our website and I have followed it here.
Lloyds is required to lend responsibly. It needed to conduct checks to make sure that the
credit facility it was giving to Miss F was affordable and sustainable. Such checks need to
be proportionate to things like the credit limit it offered Miss F, the maximum she could have 
to repay (including interest and charges) each month, his borrowing history with it and what it 
knew about her circumstances. But there is no set list of checks it had to do.
This means to reach my decision I need to consider if Lloyds carried out proportionate
checks at the time of Miss Fs credit card application and limit increases; if so, did it make 
fair lending decisions based on the results of its checks; and if not, what better checks would 
most likely have shown. However, Lloyds is unable to send in details of, or the results of, the 
checks it carried out. This is not surprising or unreasonable given how long ago the card was 
opened and the limit was increased.
In order to try to understand what the checks most likely showed Lloyds I have reviewed 
Miss Fs bank statements from the months before each lending decision. In the 
circumstances, this is the most reliable way for me to recreate what Lloyds would most likely 
have learnt from its checks  to the extent that it is possible to know this without the 
information it gathered. 
From what I can see at the time of the card application, and the two limit increases, Miss Fs 
finances seemed stable. There were none of the typical indicators of financial difficulties or 
instability, such as a persistent reliance on an overdraft facility, returned direct debits, use of 
payday loans or frequent gambling. 
So based on the limited information available I cannot fairly conclude Lloyds was wrong to 
lend to Miss F.
Miss F questions how it can have been acceptable to give a limit in excess of her monthly 
salary. But this in itself would not be an indicator of irresponsible lending, we would expect 
the lender to consider if the applicant could afford to sustainably repay the credit over a 
reasonable period of time  not if they could repay it in one go.
I note there is an outstanding balance on the card and Miss F says Lloyds has not been 
helpful. But I can see it froze interest for three months so has offered some forbearance. I 
would urge Miss F to contact Lloyds now on the freephone number it sent her (0808 145 
0366) to agree an affordable repayment plan. 
I would remind Lloyds of its ongoing obligation to treat Miss F fairly, and with forbearance if 
required.   
My final decision
I am not upholding Miss Fs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman