DRN-3170501
The complaint
Mr W complains about the way Tesco Personal Finance PLC  trading as Tesco Bank 
handled a potential Section 75 claim. He would like compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
As our investigator explained complaint handling in itself isnt a regulated activity that  
we can look into. However, in this case ,Mr W thought he had a potential Section 75 
claim so as his enquiries were specific to a  purchase through Tesco Bank, they 
related to a problem with an item bought and a process he may well have followed 
through with Tesco Bank . So, I think its reasonable to comment on Tesco Banks 
actions which is what our investigator did in his view.
I appreciate Mr W wanted Tesco Bank to flag his potential Section 75 claim on its 
systems so there was a record of it in the event he put in such a claim Its not for us 
to tell businesses what processes to use. But I cant see that Mr W was 
disadvantaged by Tesco Banks actions. There would have been a record of his 
contact with Tesco Bank to refer to in the event he put in a Section 75 claim. As long 
as he then followed the correct process for a Section 75 complaint, I cant see why 
his claim wouldnt have been dealt with appropriately by Tesco Bank . 
Mr W may  have thought it was unreasonable for Tesco Bank to tell him in the event 
of a Section 75 claim he would need to provide an independent report. I think Tesco 
Bank were trying to be helpful. And in the case of a faulty item we would expect to 
see some evidence of a fault. So, I dont think Tesco Bank were being unreasonable.
As I dont believe Tesco Bank has done anything wrong, I cant reasonably ask it to 
compensate Mr W in the way he would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman