DRN-3765485
The complaint
Miss Q complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited gave her incorrect information 
about the date she needed to pay the balance of a Buy Now Pay Later purchase to avoid 
being charged interest.
What happened
Miss Q has a catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct, from which she purchased 
goods using its By Now Pay Later (BNPL) facility. This allowed her to delay paying for 
certain transactions for up to 52 weeks without paying any interest as long as she paid the 
full cost of the transaction by the end of the delayed payment period.
In early 2021, Miss Q purchased an item for around £760. She says Shop Direct told her 
several times over the phone that the BNPL for this item was ending on 28 May 2022. 
However, she later started to receive messages from Shop Direct telling her the delayed 
payment period ended on 8 April 2022. Miss Q was charged over £1,000 in interest because 
she didnt make the payment by the April date.
Miss Q complained to Shop Direct who said Miss Q had been given the correct information 
over the phone. It referred to several phone recordings, including a conversation in 
December 2021 where Miss Q was told her next BNPL was due on 8 April 2022.
Miss Q remained unhappy and asked our service to consider her concerns. Our investigator 
didnt uphold her complaint. So, Miss Q asked for the matter to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
Shop Direct then offered to remove the interest it had charged for the item as a gesture of 
goodwill. However, it said it wasnt proposing to amend any information recorded on        
Miss Qs credit file as it believed it to be a true reflection of her credit history.
Miss Q rejected Shop Directs offer to settle the complaint. She was concerned about the 
impact of late payment markers remaining on her credit file. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Shop Directs terms and conditions say:
BNPL Plans will have a delayed payment period of up to 52 weeks (depending on the offer) 
from the date of order. You will not have to make any payments during this delayed payment 
period If you pay the cost of your transaction in full before the end of the delayed payment 
period you will not be required to pay any interest on the BNPL Plan
From what Ive seen and been told, Miss Q purchased the item in April 2021. 
Shop Direct has provided screenshots of statements it says would have been available to 
Miss Q online. Ive seen monthly statements from August 2021 to March 2022. On all of 
these Buy Now Pay Later Ending 08 Apr 22 is listed with a balance of £759.99, interest 
charge of £1,027.69 and the wording If You Pay The Balance by 08 Apr 2022 You Will Not 
Pay Any Interest.
Miss Q says that shortly after she purchased the item, she was told over the phone that a 
discount was approved on 28 May 2021, and the BNPL was moved to 28 May 2022. She 
says that any time she paid BNPL bills she would ask when the due date was, and the 
answer was always 28 May. 
Miss Q says she asked Shop Direct to send her recordings of all of the conversations she 
had with its customer services from the date she ordered the item. However, Shop Direct 
only provided a few of the calls. 
Shop Direct says it wouldnt be able to pull every call due to the time it would take to review 
them. It told us it would be willing to provide further calls if Miss Q could be more specific 
about the date and time. However, Miss Q hasnt been able to do this. She says she had to 
make a few calls before the item was put on BNPL. She made several calls relating to an 
issue with the discount which needed to be rectified. She says she remembers a manager 
giving her the date of 28 May around that time and she was given this information again 
each time she called to make payment for other bills.
Ive listened to the recordings Shop Direct has provided  from May, October and December 
2021. Shop Direct didnt give Miss Q incorrect information about the BNPL due date in any 
of these calls. 
In the conversation of 15 December 2021, Miss Q asked Shop Direct when her next BNPL 
was due. In response, Shop Direct said: Your next Buy Now Pay Later is due on 8 April 
2022 with a balance of £759.99. Miss Q replied: Okay in April. Thank you very much.
I appreciate Miss Q believes shed be able to evidence that she was given the date of         
28 May 2022 if recordings of all of her conversations with Shop Direct from April 2021 were 
made available. However, shes suggested that the incorrect information was given to her on 
several occasions prior to the 15 December call. So, even if there was evidence of this, I 
wouldnt be persuaded that Shop Direct was wrong to consider her payment to be late. 
Im satisfied that Shop Direct gave Miss Q clear information about when the BNPL was due 
on her statements. It also gave her the correct information over the phone on 15 December 
2021. Miss Q didnt seem to be surprised when she was told this. Nor did she query the date 
when she spoke to Shop Direct again on 24 December. Miss Q mentioned that her next 
BNPL was due in April or May but didnt ask for confirmation of the due date. 
Miss Q says she was overseas from December 2021 to May 2022 and this made it difficult to 
access information about her account and contact Shop Direct. She says she started to 
receive emails from Shop Direct about arrears in December 2021, but it was unclear what 
these were about. Emails she tried to send from outside of the country wouldnt go through. 
Phone calls were expensive, and Shop Directs customer services werent able to explain 
what the arrears were for. From what I understand there was some confusion regarding a minimum payment. Ive 
listened to a call that took place on 24 December 2021, where a Shop Direct customer 
service adviser was trying to look into the matter and Miss Q was concerned about the cost 
of the call. However, this appears to be a separate issue to the date of the BNPL. 
Shop Direct has acknowledged that Miss Q has been a long-standing consumer who 
historically makes full cash payments to items on a BNPL promotion prior to the interest 
being charged. It says it partially refunded the interest Miss Q was charged in May 2022 by 
crediting £340.16 to her account. Its offered to credit her account with the remainder of the 
interest she was charged (£687.53) as a gesture of goodwill. I think this is reasonable 
compensation for the customer service issues Miss Q experienced. 
I appreciate Miss Q is concerned about the information on her credit file. However, 
businesses have a duty to record accurate information about a customer. Im satisfied that 
the BNPL payment was due on 8 April 2022. Shop Directs records show the payment wasnt 
received until 25 May 2022. And Ive explained why I dont think Shop Direct is responsible 
for Miss Q paying late. So, I wont be asking Shop Direct to remove adverse information from 
Miss Qs credit file. 
Putting things right
Shop Direct should credit Miss Qs account with £687.53.
My final decision
Shop Direct Finance Company Limited has already made an offer to credit Miss Qs account 
with £687.53 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited should credit Miss Qs 
account with £687.53.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman