DRN-3649658
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy about U K Insurance Limited not paying out their claim under 
their landlords home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R were notified by the police that a property they rented out to tenants was being 
used to grow cannabis. When they then visited the property, they found it had suffered 
extensive damage to many areas including some fire and smoke damage. UKI appointed 
loss adjusters to inspect and validate the claim. UKI declined the claim as Mr and Mrs R 
hadnt taken the optional extension to include cover for malicious damage by tenants. 
Unhappy with this Mr and Mrs R brought their complaint to this service.
Mr and Mrs R previously brought a complaint to this service about the sale of the policy, but I 
will only deal here with the complaint about the claim.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint about the claim. He said the claim was declined 
as the damage was caused by either the tenant or persons known to the tenant and cover 
for that was excluded under the policy. Regarding the loss of rent claim our investigator said 
as UKI hadnt accepted liability for the building damage no loss of rent claim could apply. 
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy with this and asked for their complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the key consideration is what exclusion are UKI trying to apply here. The policy 
wording states under page 12:
Section 1: The Structure
6 Malicious Persons or vandals, excluding damage:
h) caused by Your Employees, tenants or any other persons lawfully in Your premises
UKI said As the damage was caused by the tenant or persons known to the tenant, cover is 
excluded under this section. To consider this type of claim under your policy, you would 
need to have Malicious Damage by Tenants cover. This is an optional cover, that you have 
not taken.
The loss adjusters preliminary report said:
following a tip off the property had been raided and [police] had found cannabis cultivation 
at the property. No one was at the property and no arrests were made.
The policyholder attended the property to find the police had forced entry through the front 
door. They have then instructed a contractor to board up the front door. Inside the premises 
there is damage to two bedrooms where cannabis cultivation has been undertaken. There is 
also fire damage to the floor of one bedroom from the electrical equipment installed for the 
cannabis cultivation. There is smoke damage to a further bedroom, WC, stairs and landing.
The damage has been caused due to Malicious Damage by the tenants in converting the 
bedrooms for cannabis cultivation and an electrical fire from the cannabis growing 
equipment causing a small amount of fire damage to the front bedroom.
In the final loss adjusters report it said:
the claim arose following malicious damage by the tenant in conversion of the property for 
cultivation of illegal drugs namely cannabis production.
The policyholder did not elect to extend the standard policy cover to provide malicious 
damage by tenants and therefore the policy exclusion for damage caused by persons 
lawfully at the property will apply.
UKI followed up in further correspondence with Mr and Mrs R who asked if the damage 
could be covered under the accidental damage section and said The damage to your 
property could not be considered as accidental, as it is clearly done with the intention of drug 
cultivation.
UKI maintained To enable a claim to be considered under this policy for these 
circumstances, Malicious Damage by Tenants cover would need to have been taken.
I think based on the policy cover and the exclusion UKI acted reasonably when it declined to 
deal with the claim. I think it investigated the circumstances and has clearly shown that the 
exclusion applies. It also pointed out that there was an option to take out extra cover that 
Mr and Mrs R chose not to take.
Mr and Mrs R also said that they should be able to make a valid loss of rent claim. On this 
point UKI said the policy states:
1 Loss of Rent Receivable
If any property owned by You or for which You are responsible sustains damage, for which 
liability has been admitted under Sections 1 or 2, causing an interruption of the business 
which results in loss of Rent Receivable We will indemnify You
UKI said that as no valid claim had been accepted for the property it followed that no loss of 
rent claim could succeed either.
I think UKI acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the loss of rent claim. I think the 
policy wording shows that for a valid rent claim to apply there needs to be a damage claim 
accepted by UKI and thats not the case here.
Mr and Mrs R have gone on to say theres nothing in the policy wording that explicitly refers 
to growing cannabis plants. But that doesnt change the reasons UKI declined the claim. A 
policy wording isnt expected to refer to every eventuality.
Overall, I think UKI acted reasonably when it declined to deal with the claim.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman