DRN-1783372
The complaint
Ms A complains about Unum Ltds handling of her dental insurance claim.
What happened
Ms A is covered under her employers group dental insurance scheme. 
Following an accident, Ms A needed dental treatment. She called Unum to enquire about 
this, and says she was told shed be covered for up to £1,500. She went ahead with the 
treatment and submitted a claim, but received much less than she was expecting. Unhappy 
with this, Ms A brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator mediated with Unum about the matter. Although Unum no longer had a 
recording of its conversation with Ms A, he noted it had accepted it couldve made it clearer 
to Ms A what benefit might be payable. Our investigator thought Unum should pay Ms A £50 
compensation to recognise the disappointment caused to Ms A. 
Unum agreed to the investigators recommendations, but Ms A didnt. The matter has 
therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says:
Treatment required as a result of an accident/injury will be subject to the individual 
treatment maximums shown in the benefit schedule.
Ive checked the benefit schedule, and Im satisfied that Unum paid Ms A the correct benefit 
amount for the treatment she had. 
Ms A says she called Unum before her treatment and it told her that she could claim up to 
£1,500, and didnt tell her about any limits in the policy schedule. 
Unum has explained it no longer has a recording of the relevant call. Thats unfortunate, 
particularly as Unum was able to listen to the call during its investigation into Ms As 
complaint. Its good practice for a financial business to make sure call recordings that are 
relevant to a complaint are retained until that complaint is resolved, and I trust Unum will 
bear this in mind for the future. 
Unum says that during the call Ms A wasnt told that she would be reimbursed £1,500. It 
says it was explained to her that she had an allowance of £1,500 towards accident and injury 
treatment, but the reimbursement was the same as non-accident or injury - except the 
amount would be deducted from the accident and injury allowance, instead of the standard 
annual limit. However, Unum accepted this couldve been explained a little clearer and may 
have come across as confusing over the phone. 
Based on Unums description of what was discussed, I would agree that it wasnt made clear 
to Ms A what she could claim. I wouldve expected Unum to have referred Ms A to the 
different treatment maximums in the benefit schedule, but it didnt do so. Ms A only became 
aware of these after shed submitted her claim. 
The next point for me to consider is whether Unums failure to make it clear how much Ms A 
could claim financially disadvantaged her. In other words, whether Ms A would have still 
gone ahead with the treatment if shed understood how much she could actually claim. On 
balance, I think she would have. Ill explain why.
Ms As explained that her tooth broke in the accident, and she visited her dentist the same 
day for temporary treatment. She says she then called Unum to find out if she had cover for 
accident/injury, and was relieved to hear that she was fully covered. Her dentist then fit a 
new crown under anaesthetic. 
Weve asked Ms A what she would have done, if shed understood how much she could 
claim. Shes said that she wouldnt have gone to her dentist if she knew the treatment 
wouldnt have been covered in full, and would have instead asked Unum if they dealt with 
any other dental services that she could have used. 
Under the policy, Ms A is entitled to claim back money spent on certain dental treatment, up 
to the relevant limits. My understanding is that Unum doesnt recommend dentists to 
customers, as customers are expected to arrange treatment themselves with their own 
dentist. This is what Ms A did.
Given the cost of the treatment, I assume Ms As dentist is private rather than NHS. She 
hasnt said that having NHS treatment was an option for her at her dentist. 
As Ms A needed a new crown because of the damage to her tooth, I think its more likely 
than not that even if she had understood the policy limits, she wouldve still had the same 
treatment at her dentist. I think its unlikely that she would have changed dentists in order to 
obtain NHS treatment.
Im therefore satisfied that Ms A hasnt been caused any financial loss by Unums actions, 
and instead has experienced a loss of expectation. I agree with the investigator that 
wouldve been disappointing, but I think the £50 compensation he recommended is 
appropriate in the circumstances and recognises the level of disappointment Ms A 
experienced. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Unum Ltd to pay Ms A £50 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman