DRN-2876255
The complaint
Mrs G, represented by her partner, whom Ill refer to as Mr M, is unhappy with her home 
insurance provider Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited, as whilst repairing water ingress 
to her home, its agents caused damage to the property and contents.
What happened
In August 2018 Mrs G found water coming into her home  the water was coming in at roof 
level and affecting the first and ground floors of the home.  A claim was made to Lloyds and 
whilst it didnt accept that damage covered by the policy had occurred to the roof, it said it 
would deal with the internal damage under the policy cover for accidental damage.
Lloyds confirmed its position on the roof damage in a final response dated November 2018. 
The internal repairs progressed. But Mrs G was concerned very early on that in trying to dry 
the property lots of dust had been spread around the house causing damage. Lloyds agreed 
its agent, whom Ill refer to as P, would do a deep clean of the property once work was 
done. 
In May 2019 Mrs G sent photos to Lloyds showing all the damage she felt had been done  
both during the cleaning by P and the later reinstatement works, completed by its agent H. 
Lloyds passed the details to its agents and from there oversaw the negotiations, advising 
that it was not liable for these issues or resolving them, that was for the policyholder and 
contractors to do. In July 2019 there was a meeting at Mrs Gs home, which was attended by 
a consultant expert brought in by H to assess damage and a representative of P. The 
damage and prices for the items damaged were discussed. From there negotiations began 
about what was damaged and in need of repair or replacement and what liability there was. 
Mrs G also raised concerns about her health, believing it had been affected during the claim 
by the poor works. Mrs G also told Lloyds that shed found the claim difficult. 
In August 2019 Lloyds issued a final response to Mrs G. It accepted that it hadnt managed 
the claim and it should have appointed a personal claims consultant to do so. It accepted 
that the damage which its agents had caused, had caused delays and that, on occasion, 
appointments had been missed. It offered £175 compensation. In this letter Lloyds also 
acknowledged that Mrs G had advised it of health concerns  but that shed asked that no 
answer was given by Lloyds on this issue at that time as she wanted to take advice.
The negotiations about the damage continued. And into November 2019, with H having 
made an offer of a few thousand pounds, Mr M told Lloyds that didnt even cover the cost of 
necessary decorating work. Further communication occurred and in December a conference 
call took place between Mr M, H and the consultant expert. The call was quite long and a lot 
of the damaged items were discussed, with the consultant explaining H and Ps view on 
some of the costs each felt they were or werent liable for. But essentially the consultant told 
Mr M that in respect of all of the damage concerns, and in order to settle matters before 
Christmas and without the involvement of legal teams, a sum of £5,500 was the maximum 
which could be paid. When Mr M mentioned health concerns the consultant appeared to be 
unaware of this issue, and was reluctant to accept any liability, stating this would need 
investigating. Mr M then said if the overall sum on offer was increased to £6,000 this could 
be resolved. That sum was then paid following Mrs G and Mr M signing an agreement, 
presented on Hs headed paperwork and referring to Hs liability.
In the meantime Lloyds had been dealing with a further complaint made to it following the 
initial offer of settlement being made by H. Its final response on that complaint was issued in 
January 2021, shortly after Mrs G had complained to us, and took into account the offer and 
settlement made in December 2020. In short Lloyds felt that the settlement resolved Mrs Gs 
concerns about damage and health concerns, and it had always been necessary for 
her/Mr M to deal direct with the agents. It acknowledged it had taken a while for things to be 
resolved, but felt this wasnt unreasonable given the complexities involved. But it did accept 
there had been poor communication and that Mrs G had been unable to have grandchildren 
visit. It said it would pay £850 compensation. 
Our investigator confirmed that it was his understanding that the complaint fell broadly into 
three categories  that Mrs G was unhappy that:
Lloyds hadnt represented her in negotiations about the damage;
The settlement was insufficient especially given that the total price discussed at the 
meeting had been circa £14,000;
No allowance had been given for health concerns.  
Having considered matters he felt Lloyds hadnt done anything wrong so he didnt uphold the 
complaint.
Mr M was dissatisfied with the findings. He felt the investigator hadnt understood the 
situation at all, and that hed made key mistakes which meant his findings were flawed. Mr M 
said that £14,000 had been the figure put forwards by H and P, and whilst H had paid £6,000 
for its part in the damage (evidenced by the agreement he and Mrs G had signed), the 
remaining £8,000 was for P to pay. Our investigator provided some further reply and Mr M 
asked for an ombudsmans consideration.
The complaint was passed to me and I felt it shouldnt be upheld. But I issued a provisional 
decision to inform both parties of my reasoning for this. In response to my findings; Lloyds 
said it had nothing further to add, Mr M, on behalf of Mrs G, said he disagreed with them. 
Ive set out my provisional findings, along with more detail about Mr Ms responses to them 
and my final findings below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr M provided further commentary on the 
background detail I included. Ive reviewed his comments and Im satisfied by the 
background as set out above; in my view, it provides a reasonable summary of the events 
and issues that are pertinent to this complaint. 
I said provisionally:
I understand Mrs G thinks Lloyds should have represented her in negotiations with its 
agents. But that was never something Lloyds could or should do. And Lloyds was right in 
that Mrs G would always have needed to be heavily involved in discussions with both P and 
H, because she knew what damage had occurred. But Lloyds was wrong in its approach 
regarding liability. The damage was done on Lloyds watch, by contractors working for 
Lloyds. So Lloyds was always liable for this but could never represent Mrs G in negotiations 
because of the conflict of interest  Lloyds was liable for the very issue Mrs G was complaining about. The best it could have done would have been taken over direct control of 
the investigations into the damage and making settlement for it.  
In reply Mr M said I was wrong, Lloyds do provide claim consultants and its acknowledged it 
should have offered one in respect of Mrs Gs claim. Mr M felt I should be more specific 
about how Lloyds had been wrong in its approach to liability. Hes unhappy that Lloyds 
never made it clear it was responsible for the acts and failures of its contractors, which 
meant they couldnt have known this was the case.
I understand Mr Ms frustration  Lloyds effectively obfuscated its position on liability for its 
agents. It shouldnt have done that. But I remain of the view that Lloyds could never have 
represented Mrs G, or handled matters for her in the way thats been suggested. Lloyds 
claim consultants are used in respect of furthering a claim under the policy  because 
Lloyds agents had caused damage, any claim from Mrs G for redress for that didnt fall 
under the policy. 
I continued provisionally:
I also think Mrs G was right in saying the consultant expert was not independent. I think its 
fair to say he doesnt work directly for H, but that its also fair to say he used to work for H 
and H, where necessary, utilises his services and expertise on a consultant basis. Ive also 
heard the conference call from December, and the consultant often allies himself with H. But 
thats not to say he shouldnt have been appointed; the concerns over damage had to be 
progressed and, in my view, this was a reasonable way for it to be done. I cant see that 
anything different would have happened even if Lloyds had taken control of the matter. 
Mr M felt I was washing over this issue  the expert told them he was completely 
independent. In short, he lied. And whilst he took time with Mr M to price up all the items, he 
then took a position during the conference call, of not wanting to pay the price set. Mr M said 
that to say nothing different would have happened is no more than speculation.
Its not right that the experts allegiances were misrepresented. I noted provisionally, as 
reproduced later on in this document, that Lloyds made mistakes and this caused frustration. 
Any assessment of loss is naturally a staged process; initially values for the items lost and 
being claimed for have to be set and then the party being claimed from can decide liability 
for those  whether overall or in respect of the value set/claimed. Im satisfied that is what 
happened here. I cant know for sure what would have happened  but its part of my role to 
decide what would most likely have happened if the insurer hadnt failed the policyholder. Im 
satisfied by my provisional assessment in this respect.
My provisional findings continued:
I see that prices for resolving the damage and damaged items were discussed at the site 
meeting, and that the net total of around £14,000 was the result of that collaboration. So it 
wasnt a figure that Mr M had created. However, during the early stages of the December 
conference call, Mr M confirms this was the figure hes looking for in settlement. I cant 
reproduce the whole content of the call here, but Ive listened to it all and Ill arrange for our 
investigator to send a copy to Mrs G and Mr M along with this decision, so theyre fully aware 
of what Ive heard. I think its fair to say that Mr M was quite able during that call to negotiate 
with the consultant, that he understood that the settlement in discussion was for all the 
damage  whether H or P was liable for each issue, and that the final amount of £6,000 was 
to be paid to discharge all liabilities in respect of all of the poor work completed at the 
property including anything to do with health. I think Mr M wanted to resolve things and he 
understood that challenging the settlement further would take time and involvement. Im not persuaded that, at the point the agreement was reached in that call, Mr M believed there 
was any further settlement to come or be made by any other party.
Mr M said the full amount was referenced because that was the total value which had been 
set for all the damaged items, but his expectation for H was for it to pay half. Mr M said thats 
why he referred to H having saved itself a lot of money. Mr M said I should quote specifically 
from the call and evidence where H purports to be representing P  it didnt and so, even if 
this was the case (which he doesnt accept), he couldnt have known. Especially not given 
the documentation and payment from H which followed. Mr M said its illogical to think that if 
hed been able to negotiate with H, and believed it was acting for P as well, he wouldve 
happily walked away with less than half of the total amount requested in settlement. Mr M 
said I was wrong  when the call ended, and still now, he believes P owes the further 50%.
I understand that Mr M has a different view of the call to me. Having seen his response to 
my provisional findings, Ive reviewed the call recording again. Im satisfied by the 
assessment I set out provisionally.   
I continued provisionally to say:
Unfortunately, H then confused the issue by the paperwork it sent out and insisted Mrs G 
and Mr M sign. I think if Lloyds had been in control of things at this point this problem would 
have been avoided  because all liability would have been caught under its umbrella as the 
lead party in the action which caused the damage and health issues. But as it was H sent 
out the agreement on its headed paper and only referred to the agreement discharging its 
liability for all matters. That paperwork was not, in my view, a true reflection of the 
agreement actually reached during the conference call. But Im not persuaded, given the 
long and involved conversation which took place and resulted in what I see as a clear 
agreement that Hs payment of £6,000 would end all matters of liability, that the mistake in 
respect of the paperwork caused Mrs G to be misled as to the nature of the settlement. Nor, 
in my view, did it reasonably cause her to think there were likely more funds due or 
outstanding. So Im not going to make Lloyds pay anything more to Mrs G in respect of the 
damage and heath issues negotiated with and settled by H. 
Mr M said if I was satisfied that H had caused confusion, it made no sense to also have said 
I wasnt persuaded that Mr M had believed there wasnt any further settlement to come. 
Mr M felt I had been correct to highlight that the paperwork only discharged Hs liability, 
which meant it didnt extend to P, and he couldnt reasonably have thought it did. It isnt for 
me to change the agreement as reflected by the paperwork.
Mrs G has asked this service to decide whether Lloyds has further liability to her for sums 
outstanding following Hs payment of £6,000, because Lloyds said that payment settled all 
liability. To do that I have to decide what agreement I think was reached and what role I think 
the relevant paperwork played. I remain of the view that Hs paperwork confused the issue  
but this was subsequent to the point the settlement was discussed and agreed in the phone 
call. I remain of the view that whilst the paperwork was incorrect and confusing when, during 
the phone call, Mr M entered into the agreement on behalf of Mrs G, he knew it was made 
on the basis of resolving all liability for damaged items at Mrs Gs home, as well as for the 
effect of the poor claim handling on her health. Im not seeking to change the content of the 
paperwork. Rather Ive set the paperwork in the context of the situation as a whole and 
determined its contents are not a true reflection of the agreement (previously) reached. 
I appreciate Mr M doesnt agree with me, but having considered his views, Im not minded to 
change my findings.
My provisional findings continued:As Ive explained above, I think Lloyds did make mistakes here. Whilst I dont think those 
mistakes changed the outcome of the situation, I think they likely added to the frustration 
Mrs G has felt during the course of this long and involved claim. And whilst I think Lloyds 
was right to say the length of it was dependent on its complexity, Im mindful that it only 
became that complex because of the failures of Lloyds and its agents (Lloyds in not 
managing the claim and its agents in completing poor work). I also see, as acknowledged by 
Lloyds in its final responses, that there was poor communication which added to the delays 
and upset, as well as missed appointments. I appreciate that Mrs G would have been 
reluctant to have family visit whilst the house was in disarray. But I note that Lloyds has 
already offered or paid £1,025 compensation. Having considered everything I think this 
figure is in line with awards made by this service in respect of the upset suffered by Mrs G. 
So whilst I think Lloyds failed Mrs G in ways it hasnt previously accepted, Im not minded to 
make it pay further compensation. In my view such would equate to a punitive award based 
on the fact of failures, and that is not the type of award I make. 
Mr M feels Ive wrongly taken into account the compensation Lloyds has paid previously. He 
says this was for other unrelated matters, not related to this issue of Lloyds contractors 
causing damage to their home, and affecting Mrs Gs health which Lloyds hasnt provided 
full recompense for. 
My comments in this paragraph about compensation are in respect of compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. Lloyds issued two final response to Mrs G, whilst considering 
different aspects of the issue, they both dealt with upset that had been caused on account of 
its contractors poor work  the total compensation Lloyds awarded for the upset it accepted 
had occurred was £1,025. Just because Ive found that Lloyds failed Mrs G in other respects 
as well, doesnt necessarily mean that further compensation for that resultant upset is fairly 
and reasonably due. This service doesnt award compensation in that way; I look at matters 
as a whole. I remain satisfied that for all the upset Mrs G was caused by Lloyds failures 
during this claim, £1,025 compensation is a fair and reasonable sum. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Lloyds Bank General Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman