DRN-3956819
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked her accounts. She says this caused 
her a great deal of trouble and upset. She wants Barclays to provide a proper explanation for 
why it blocked her accounts.
Mrs B is also unhappy with the service Barclays provided her. She says Barclays were rude 
to her when she spoke to them and gave her different time scales. Mrs B also complains that 
Barclays contacted the emergency services, which resulted in paramedics visiting her home, 
which she says was distressing and unnecessary.
What happened
Mrs B has three accounts with Barclays  two current accounts and a savings account. 
Mrs B used her accounts to receive her pension payments and pay everyday expenses.
On 6 July 2022, Mrs B discovered that Barclays had blocked her accounts when she tried to 
access her accounts online. When shed tried to access her accounts, she was presented 
with a message asking her to get in touch with the bank. Concerned that something was 
wrong with her accounts she called Barclays to try and find out what was happening and 
why she couldnt access her accounts. 
Barclays told Mrs B that it was carrying out a review of her accounts and asked her about a 
payment that had been made into her account. The bank explained that whilst it carried out 
the review it had blocked the account, which meant Mrs B wouldnt be able to operate her 
account normally. However, it said Mrs B would still be able to access any benefits or 
income during the review if she went into a branch. Barclays told Mrs B that its review would 
take between five and seven days to complete.
During the call, Mrs B became very angry and upset. She explained that her car was being 
repaired and she needed access to her funds to settle the garage bill. She also explained 
that her nearest branch was around eight miles from her address, and she needed funds to 
pay for food over the coming days. She told Barclays she didnt have enough cash to pay for 
things for the length of the review. Mrs B repeatedly asked Barclays to explain why it had 
blocked her accounts, but Barclays said it wasnt obliged to provide Mrs B with the reasons 
behind the review and block. Instead, it provided some general information about why it can 
block accounts. Mrs B wasnt happy with this explanation and during the call she became 
increasingly, anxious, teary, and upset. 
Mrs B says overall Barclays staff were unhelpful, rude, and made her feel extremely 
vulnerable. She says Barclays also suggested that she should ask family and neighbours for 
financial help, which she found very upsetting. And made her feel ashamed as she has 
always been a very financially independent person. Barclays apologised for any upset its 
actions had caused Mrs B. 
Mrs B wasnt happy with Barclays explanation or apology. And during the call threatened 
staff that she would take an overdose if Barclays didnt unblock her accounts and allow her 
access to her funds. Fearing for her welfare, Barclays contacted the Police and ambulance 
service, who attended Mrs Bs address. Mrs B says this caused her a great deal of upset 
and wasted valuable NHS resources. 
On 7 July 2022, Barclays removed the block from Mrs Bs accounts. It completed its review 
on 12 July 2022. Following this Mrs B complained to Barclays. In response Barclays said it 
hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked and reviewed Mrs Bs accounts. Unhappy with 
this response Mrs B brought her complaint to this service. 
Mrs B told us that she was left feeling very anxious, depressed, and extremely stressed by 
the banks actions. She has explained in detail that the whole experience with Barclays has 
left her shaken and feeling very vulnerable. She is also concerned that her accounts will be 
blocked again in the future and feels that the bank has treated her like a criminal. Mrs B 
wants Barclays to provide a proper explanation for why it blocked her accounts. Shes also 
unhappy that when she spoke to Barclays, she was given different time scales by the bank 
about how long the block on her accounts would be in place, initially being told it could take 
five days and then between five and seven days, which she says only added to her anxiety. 
Overall, she says she has been treated terribly by Barclays.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. She thought Barclays hadnt done anything 
wrong when it decided to block and review Mrs Bs account. Mrs B disagreed. She said the 
bank didnt help her at all and refused to allow a cash advance using her bank card, which 
meant she was left with just £45 to last for an unknown period of time. She says she was left 
feeling very embarrassed when the ambulance came to her home and Barclays shouldnt 
have wasted valuable NHS resources by contacting the emergency services. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Barclays has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. And it must take certain 
actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry 
out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means they need 
to block customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their review. And 
ask for information about payments made into an account. The terms and conditions of 
Mrs Bs accounts also permit Barclays to do this. Having reviewed everything, I do think 
Barclays blocking Mrs Bs accounts were reasonable in the circumstances. So, whilst I 
accept this caused Mrs B inconvenience and worry, I cant say Barclays treated her unfairly 
when it blocked her accounts. 
Mrs B says he hasnt done anything wrong and that shes been treated like a criminal by 
Barclays. She has pointed out that shes been a good customer of the bank since the 1980s 
and wants Barclays to provide a proper explanation for why it blocked her accounts. I 
understand why Mrs B wants Barclays to explain the reason it applied the blocks to her 
accounts. But Barclays doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. Its under no obligation to tell Mrs B the reasons behind the account review and 
block, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving 
Mrs B this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. Ive also thought about Barclays actions in notifying the police and ambulance service of 
their concerns about Mrs Bs safety. Mrs B says the bank wasted NHS resources and 
caused her a great deal of embarrassment and further upset by sending the emergency 
services to her address. Having listened to the calls, and whilst I have empathy for the 
situation Mrs B found herself in, I can understand why the call handler took the action they 
did. I say this because the situation escalated and became very heated. Mrs B was quite 
distraught during the calls  so much so that she threatened to take her own life on more 
than one occasion during the conversation. I think the call handler had no alternative other 
than to take what Mrs B was saying very seriously. Barclays had a duty of care to Mrs B and 
its actions followed directly from exercising that. So, I dont think contacting the emergency 
services to check on Mrs B, was an unreasonable course of action for Barclays to take given 
the seriousness of what Mrs B disclosed about her intentions to harm herself.
Mrs B has also said that Barclays staff were rude to her during the calls and gave her 
different time scales about when her account would be unblocked. I can hear how upset 
Mrs B was about how her questions were being handled during her calls with Barclays. And I 
dont doubt that Mrs B was very anxious and stressed by the events that occurred. Thats 
clear from listening to the calls and from reading the ambulance report that Mrs B has kindly 
provided to this service. But overall, I thought Mrs Bs calls were handled professionally and 
the bank made efforts to alleviate Mrs Bs concerns. 
Barclays did give Mrs B two different time frames about when its review would be completed. 
Initially it told Mrs B five days and then said it could take up to seven days to be completed. I 
can understand why this upset Mrs B  being told one thing and then another would have 
been confusing. And hearing that she might have to wait longer for the review to be 
completed would no doubt have increased Mrs Bs anxiety. Barclays completed its review 
within this timeframe  on 12 July 2022. But it unblocked Mrs Bs accounts within a day. So, 
she was able to use her account normally relatively quickly. I can appreciate that being told 
different timeframes wouldve worried Mrs B  thats clear from listening to the calls. But Im 
not persuaded that Barclays provided Mrs B with poor service or that the staff involved were 
rude or sought to upset Mrs B. Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs B as I can see how strongly 
she feels about this matter, but overall, I thought the calls were handled professionally and 
Barclays provided as much information as possible to Mrs B at the time. They also managed 
Mrs Bs expectations about how long the review would take.
 
In summary, I dont doubt it was a frustrating and worrying time for Mrs B. Im sorry to see 
that Mrs Bs health was impacted by Barclays actions and that she is now fearful her 
accounts may be blocked again in the future. So, I realise Mrs B will be disappointed by my 
decision. But overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say Barclays have acted 
unreasonably and treated Mrs B unfairly when it blocked her accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman