DRN-3197752
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain about how Aviva Insurance Limited have settled a claim they
made against their motor insurance policy.
  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 1 December 2021. I intended to come to a 
different outcome to our investigator, and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with any additional information they wanted me to consider. Both parties have now 
responded, and so Im now in a position to issue my final decision. 
I have copied my provisional decision below, which also forms part of this final decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mr Os car was involved in a collision in February 2021. When Mr and Mrs O bought
the car, it was a CAT S total loss which they said had been repaired to be a good standard.
Generally, when a car is categorised as CAT S, this means that the car has sustained some
structural damage previously but can be repaired and returned to the road.
Initially, Aviva valued the car at £4,260, and offered this amount less the excess of £350 to
settle the claim.
Aviva then retracted this offer because it said it would make some deductions for the car
previously being CAT S and the cost that it would get at salvage, because Mr O wanted to
keep the car. So Mr and Mrs O would have received a settlement amount of £3000
(including all deductions).
Later, Aviva withdrew its offer and said that it would now offer £2250. This is because it had
valued the car at £5430, but deducted 20% for the previous CAT S, then 50% of the poor
previous repairs. It said the revised figure was £2344, but then rounded up to £2500, with a
further 10% being deducted for the salvage (as they wanted to keep the car). Because Mr
and Mrs O didnt accept this, the car was valued again by a senior technical engineer.
After the review, Aviva decided to withdraw its offer again, and offered Mr and Mrs O £870 to
settle things. They said that a senior engineer had inspected the car and found that the car
had a lot of pre-accident damage. It said the repairs that had been carried out to the car
previously were very poor, and the car wasnt, and still isnt in a roadworthy state. And it said
that the car would now be registered CAT B. Generally, CAT B is where a car has major
structural damage and the repairs cost more than the value of the vehicle. CAT B cars cant
be used on public roads or re-sold. But parts can be salvaged.
The engineer estimated that the cost to repair Mr and Mrs Os car would be £7,578.25.
Mr and Mrs O were unhappy with Avivas valuation. Firstly, they were unhappy with the
figure itself. They say that it isnt a fair valuation and that there was nothing wrong with the
previous repairs that had been carried out to the car. They were also unhappy that they kept
having to contact Aviva to find out what was happening with their car, and theyre unhappy
that Aviva keep changing their offer.
Mr and Mrs O say that they have now had to scrap the car because Aviva are no longer
paying for their hire car, and they couldnt afford to continue to hire a car without scrapping
their vehicle.
Aviva responded to Mr and Mrs Os complaint to say it hadnt done anything wrong  and
provided an explanation as to what had happened with each settlement offer. However, it did
offer Mr and Mrs O £150 to apologise for the time it had taken and the number of offers it
had put to them.
When our investigator initially looked into things, he didnt uphold the complaint. But later,
and based on additional information from both parties, he changed his mind. And he thought
that Aviva should honour the original pre-accident value (PAV) which was £4,260  with a
25% deduction for the CAT S and less the policy excess of £350. So he thought a final
settlement figure of £2,845 would be fair.
Aviva didnt agree. It said that the pre-accident damage to the car was so extensive that the
valuation of £4,260, even less the 25% for the previous CAT S was still too high. Aviva also
sent in a report from the engineer of the pre-accident damage.
Because Aviva didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the
matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, it is my intention to uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint in part  this is
because I think Aviva could have done more to manage their expectations regarding the
valuation, and I dont think that its offer of £150 is enough to compensate Mr and Mrs O for
what it could have done better. However, at the moment, I think the valuation it had placed
on Mr and Mrs Os car is fair.
Its probably worth starting off by saying that it isnt my role to value Mr and Mrs Os car.
What I need to do is consider whether Aviva settled the claim in a fair and reasonable way,
and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr and Mrs Os policy says, that the most it will pay out is the market value of a car. And
market value is defined as The cost of replacing your vehicle with one of the same make,
model, specification and condition. The market value may also be affected by other factors
such as mileage, MOT status (if one is required), how you purchased your vehicle and
whether it has been previously declared a total loss.
Generally, in assessing what we consider to be market value, we obtain valuations from
motor trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides
to be particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide
research of likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations as well
as the cars make, model and other specifications. So, we generally find them to be more
reliable than other resources such as adverts. We also take all other available evidence into
account, for example, engineers reports.
I can see that Aviva has used these guides to come to a pre-accident valuation figure of
£5,480. Ive checked the motor trade guides it has used when making my own assessmentfor the value of Mr and Mrs Os car at the time of the incident and they produced the
following valuations: £5,430 (guide one), £5,737 (guide two) and £5,275 (guide three).
Often where one guide is significantly out of line with (or different to) the others the accepted
practice is to disregard it. But I dont deem that any of the valuations from the guides to be
so different from the others that they should be disregarded. I can see that when Aviva has
valued the car, it has taken an average of the three guides, and I think this is fair.
However, this valuation is only representative of the pre-accident value (PAV) where the pre-
accident condition of the car was fair. Aviva has made some quite big deductions to the PAV
based on the cars condition at the time of loss. So Ive gone on to see if these deductions
were fair.
Firstly, I can see that Mr and Mrs O bought their car as a CAT S. This normally means that
the car has sustained some structural damage previously. CAT S cars can be repaired and
put back on the road, however they must be registered with the DVLA. Mr and Mrs O say
that their car had been repaired when they bought it and it has been registered with the
DVLA.
The fact a vehicle has been previously "written-off" can put off potential buyers and will likely
affect the value. Mr and Mrs O were aware when they bought the car that it was a CAT S, so
its also likely they paid less for it. In these circumstances, we generally think its fair that an
insurer, like Aviva, deducts a percentage off the valuation because of the previous damage 
and so I find that the 15% deduction it has applied is fair. This would then reduce the PAV to
£4658.
When determining the market value of a car, as per the policy documents, Aviva can also
take into account the condition of the car prior to the accident. Any existing damage to the
car is likely to reduce the PAV, and this is generally accepted to be a fair approach. But in
this case, the dispute appears to be over how much Aviva has deducted for the pre-accident
damage to the car  which appears to be the reason why the valuation Aviva provided kept
reducing.
Aviva have sent this service information to show what its engineers had found to be pre-
accident damage. It said that the previous repairs carried out to the car were to a very poor
standard and they deemed them to be unsafe. It has said that it would cost in excess of
£7,578 to repair the previous unsafe repairs.
I know this will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs O, because they say that the repairs had
been carried out to a good standard. But looking at the report provided by the engineer, I can 
see that they were concerned over the safety of the car, and that the repairs had been
carried out to an extremely poor standard. The engineer said the repairs were so unsafe,
that the car should be written off as a CAT B  this means that the car has major structural
damage and the repairs would cost more than the value of the car.
I can see Aviva asked Mr and Mrs O for a copy of the MOT certificate to show that the car
was roadworthy when they bought it. Mr and Mrs O said that the car had an MOT, but the
report provided by Aviva shows that it hadnt. I have done my own research on this matter
and I can see that Mr and Mrs Os car last passed its MOT on 9 March 2020, and the CAT S 
was registered after this date. Based on this, I havent seen any evidence to show that the
car passed an MOT after the CAT S had been registered, and so I dont think Mr and Mrs O
could have been certain that their car had been repaired to a roadworthy standard.
Because of this, I find it fair that Aviva make a deduction for the PAV, given the poor repairwork that was carried out. I can see that its made the deduction of £3,789 for the pre-
accident condition of the car  this is around 50% of what it would have cost for the repairs
to be carried out.
Based on this, I currently find that the PAV of the car that Aviva has now come to of £870 is
fair. And its also fair for Aviva to deduct the excess amount of £350 from this figure, to settle
the claim.
Customer service
Looking at whats happened on this case, I certainly think Aviva could have handled things
better and managed Mr and Mrs Os expectations from the outset. I can see that Mr and Mrs
O have spent a lot of time contacting Aviva for updates. And I can see that they have had a
number of offers put to them to the settle the claim, all bar one of the offers were revoked
each time and another lesser offer put to them. Avivas initial offer to them was £4260, which
then reduced down to £870.
I can understand that this would have been distressing and upsetting for Mr and Mrs O.
While I appreciate that an offer can be subject to change, I dont think Aviva have carried out
a satisfactory valuation in the first instance. And if Aviva had carried out the valuation
appropriately in the first instance, then Mr and Mrs O wouldnt have had their expectations
set higher than they should have been.
I think Avivas actions here have caused Mr and Mrs O distress, and so I currently think
Aviva needs to compensate them £250 for this.
Aviva responded to my provisional decision to say that it agreed to increase its offer of 
compensation to £250.
Mr and Mrs O responded, but they didnt agree. I have summarised the main points they 
made below:
Aviva initially looked at their car and promised to repair it. 
The vehicle had been well repaired previously and has never been the cause of an 
accident. The third party was at fault for the incident. Mr and Mrs O still maintain that 
their vehicle had been repaired well.
The valuation Aviva made was withdrawn more than three times. The offer should be 
calculated properly before making the offer. Aviva have provided poor customer 
service by withdrawing its offers.
Aviva should refund the excess they paid. 
Why did they remove the use of the courtesy car, even though they still needed to 
use it. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, it is still my decision to uphold Mr and Mrs Os 
complaint in part. So I still think Aviva should increase its offer of compensation to £250 for 
the poor customer service they received. But I havent seen anything from either party that 
changes my decision in relation to the valuation of the car.I have seen that it was Avivas initial intention to repair the car. But after further inspection, 
Avivas engineer didnt think the car was in a roadworthy state. And it would have cost too 
much for the car to be repaired. I know this is disappointing to Mr and Mrs O, as they still 
wanted to use their car. But I have seen a copy of the engineers report which shows the 
cost of the repairs, and that in that engineers opinion, the car had severe damage and so 
should be categorised as CAT B. I havent seen any additional evidence that contradicts the 
engineers report, and so I cant fairly say that Aviva has done anything wrong here.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O still think that their car was well repaired after it was declared 
a CAT S. But I havent seen any evidence that supports this  other than Mr and Mrs Os 
testimony. The engineer who inspected the car thought the repair work was very poor, and 
given the engineers expertise in this area, Im inclined to place more weight on their opinion. 
Ive also not seen any evidence, such as a valid MOT certificate, that would have 
contradicted the engineers opinion. And so again, I dont think Aviva has done anything 
wrong in relying on the opinion of the engineer when deciding that the car had a lot of pre-
accident damage. 
I agree with Mr and Mrs O that it was poor of Aviva to keep making offers and withdrawing 
them. I can understand why Mr and Mrs O would have been upset by this. This is the reason 
I have asked Aviva to increase its compensation to £250. But for the reasons Ive already 
explained in my provisional decision, I think the final offer they made was a fair one, and so I 
dont think it has done anything wrong when offering Mr and Mrs O a lower settlement than 
they wanted. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O think that Aviva should refund the excess they paid. But its in 
the terms and conditions of their policy the excess is payable where a claim has been made. 
Mr and Mrs O did make a claim, and Aviva has acted in line with the policy when settling it. 
So, I cant agree that Aviva should waive the excess.
Aviva cant allow Mr and Mrs O the use of a courtesy car indefinitely. Once Aviva had settled 
the claim, when it made its final offer, it was within its rights to discontinue the use of the 
courtesy car. I dont think there was anything wrong in them doing this.
I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs O. However, I dont 
think Aviva has done anything wrong when it valued the car. Although I do agree that it was 
poor customer service when they kept making offers and later withdrawing them only to then 
offer less. 
  
Putting things right
Aviva needs to put things right for Mr and Mrs O by increasing its offer of compensation to 
£250.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Os complaint in part. Aviva Insurance 
Limited needs to put things right by doing what Ive said above.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman