DRN-4350845
The complaint
Mr H complains about RAC Insurance Limited (RAC) and the service he received when he 
made a claim on his Breakdown Cover policy.
What happened
On 22 December 2022, Mr H was travelling to visit relatives with his wife and children. 
Unfortunately, during this journey, Mr Hs car broke down. So, he contacted RAC to make a 
claim on his Breakdown Cover policy, which he held as an additional benefit included with 
his separate motor insurance policy.
But Mr H was unhappy with the way RAC handled his claim. So, he raised a complaint. Mr H 
was unhappy with the delays he experienced during the claim, which ultimately saw him and 
his family being given overnight accommodation on the night of the breakdown. Mr H was 
unhappy with the information RAC provided him during this time, and the costs he incurred 
travelling home the following day which he felt RAC should refund. Mr H was also unhappy 
with RACs failure to return his car to him from storage when they shouldve done, and the 
impact this had on him and his wife, who was the carer of his father-in-law. So, he wanted to 
be compensated for all the above.
RAC responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They thought they had offered Mr H 
the benefits of the Onward Travel entitlement as they would expect. But they accepted 
there were delays in this being arranged, and so offered Mr H a total of £150 compensation 
to recognise this. Mr H remained unhappy with this response and so, he referred his 
complaint to us.
Once the complaint was with our service, RAC set out the complaint issues they felt our 
service had jurisdiction to consider. Specifically, RAC felt our service could consider the 
Onward Travel entitlement. But they didnt think our service could consider anything else, 
including the returning of Mr Hs car from storage and any delays during the breakdown 
claim itself. And this was supported in their complaint response, which stated Mr Hs referral 
rights applied only to the Onward Travel element of his complaint.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt think all of Mr Hs complaint points 
could be considered. They thought all the activities carried out under the Breakdown Cover 
other than the Onward Travel element werent regulated. And so, she didnt think they were 
something we could consider. And having considered the Onward Travel element, our 
investigator thought RAC had provided Mr H with his entitlements under this aspect of the 
cover. So, our investigator didnt think RAC needed to do anything more on this occasion.
Mr H didnt agree. While he accepted he was provided with overnight accommodation, he 
thought RAC had delayed them unreasonably when arranging this. And so, he thought he 
and his family should be compensated for the upset and inconvenience these delays 
caused, as well as what he felt was RACs failure to communicate with him effectively during 
the claim process.
Our investigator responded, explaining again that the service elements including the delays 
and failure to communicate fell outside of our services jurisdiction. So, their position 
remained unchanged. Mr H continued to disagree and so, the complaint has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Before I discuss why Ive reached my decision, I think its important to set out clearly exactly 
what Ive been able to consider.
This service doesnt have a free hand to consider every complaint thats brought to us. The 
rules under which the Financial Ombudsman Service operate are set out by the regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority. These are known as the DISP rules. These rules set out the 
limits to what our service can and cant consider. 
DISP 2.3.1 says: 
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to 
an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following activities:. 
..(1) regulated activities.. 
There are other activities that are listed under the rules, however regulated activities are 
most applicable to Mr Hs complaint.
RAC is a business that is covered under our compulsory jurisdiction, so Ive gone on to see if  
what Mr H complains about is a regulated activity. 
The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 (the 
Order), sets out the rules about which activities are regulated. There are two main 
categories of regulated activities for insurance  the sale and administration of a contract 
(the policy) and the performance of a contract. The majority of Mr Hs complaint is about the 
breakdown cover  and the service he received in relation to this. This relates to effecting 
and carrying out the contract of insurance which falls under the performance of a contract. 
Therefore, is a regulated activity. 
But the Act also sets out exemptions or exclusions of certain activities. Theres an exemption 
in the Order that relates to roadside assistance. This says that the exemption applies to 
providers that meet all the following criteria:
they only provide roadside assistance insurance; 
the cover in question exclusively or mainly provides assistance which consists of 
benefits in kind (rather than monetary benefits); 
the assistance the policy provides consists of repairs to and/or removal of a vehicle in 
certain circumstances; the assistance is not provided outside the UK or Republic of Ireland; and
where the breakdown occurs within the UK or Ireland, the assistance is, in most 
circumstances, provided by the insurers own staff. 
Ive looked at all the information, the type of policy Mr H holds with RAC and the policy terms 
and conditions. Having done so, Im satisfied the policy Mr H is complaining about meets all 
of the above criteria for sections A, B and C, which cover the service provided to Mr H by 
RAC at the roadside, at home and when recovery is being arranged. This means any activity 
being complained about here, under these sections is exempt from being regulated and 
therefore our service doesnt have the power to consider it. This includes the information 
given to Mr H during the arrangement of roadside assistance and recovery, any delays 
experienced during this process and the return of his car from storage and any impact these 
delays caused. So, I wont be commenting on these aspects of the complaint any further.
But the Onward Travel section of the policy is an additional cover, and so, this aspect 
doesnt fall under exemptions and exclusions. So, this is something our service is able to 
consider, and this is what my decision has focused on. 
Ive seen Mr Hs policy document. And, under Section D which is titled Onward Travel it 
explains that RAC had an obligation to provide Mr H with a Hire car, alternative transport or 
overnight accommodation to allow you to continue your journey if your vehicle cannot be 
repaired.
The policy terms go onto explain that If we attend a breakdown under Sections A 
(Roadside) or B (At Home), and cannot fix your vehicle the same day, we will help you by 
making arrangements to allow you to continue your journey. You can choose one of the 
following options, based on your circumstances and subject to availability:
1. Hire car;
2. Alternative transport; or
3. Overnight accommodation.
In this situation, Ive seen a roadside repair wasnt possible. And that Mr H refused recovery 
to a garage for a repair, instead opting for a recovery home. So, I think its accepted that Mr 
H was entitled to the benefits provided in the Onward Travel section, as his vehicle couldnt 
be repaired the same day.
Ive seen that, on the same day Mr H broke down, he was provided with overnight 
accommodation for him and his family. And Ive seen the following day, RAC booked a hire 
car for Mr H at around 10am that morning.
So, because of the above, Im satisfied that RAC did provide Mr H with his entitlements 
under the Onward Travel section of the policy. In fact, I think RAC provided more than they 
needed to, as the policy terms stated Mr H was entitled to one of the options, but RAC opted 
to provide Mr H with two. I note Mr H declined the option of a hire car, and I do recognise 
why he felt he needed to do so, considering the level of service he felt hed already received. 
But this was ultimately Mr Hs own decision to make. And this doesnt detract from RACs 
offer to provide a hire car, when they didnt need to do so. For these reasons, I dont think I 
can say RAC have acted unfairly, or outside of the terms and conditions of the cover Mr H 
held, when providing Mr H with his entitlements under this section of the policy. And so, I 
dont think they need to do anything more on this occasion.I understand this is unlikely to be the outcome Mr H was hoping for. And I recognise in Mr 
Hs comments to our investigators view, hes made several points relating to what he felt 
were unreasonable delays, and the inconvenience these delays caused. But as Ive 
explained earlier within my decision, Im unable to consider these delays as they relate to 
activities that are excluded and so, outside of our services jurisdiction. And because of this, 
they havent impacted the decision Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about RAC Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman