DRN-3778050
The complaint
Mr C complains about Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). He says Bank of Scotland 
didnt do enough to protect him from becoming the victim of a scam and wants it to refund 
him the money he has lost.
What happened
Mr C came across an advert on Facebook offering investment opportunities in 
cryptocurrency. He submitted his details and was contacted by phone by a broker who 
persuaded him to invest. This broker turned out to be a scammer.
Mr C made a total of eight payments by debit card and faster payments, totalling £12,470 to 
purchase crypto from three different crypto providers (B C and P), which he then moved 
on to the scammer.
The scammer then asked Mr C to pay commission in order to withdraw his supposed profits. 
Mr C then realised he had been scammed and made a complaint to Bank of Scotland.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint for materially the same reasons 
as our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing for him, so Ill explain why.
Was Mr C the victim of a scam?
It is not in dispute Mr C has been the victim of a scam he was contacted off the back of 
sending his details to an advert he found on Facebook and was contacted by phone by 
someone pretending to be a legitimate broker. He was then persuaded to purchase crypto, 
and when he wanted to access the supposed profits he had made, he was told he needed to 
pay commission to access them. 
Did Mr C authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr C isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. 
Im satisfied Mr C did authorise the payments in question here. He confirmed with Bank of 
Scotland it was him making the payments  and he wanted them to be processed. I 
understand Mr C had been tricked by the scammer into instructing Bank of Scotland to make 
the payments  but while Mr C never intended the payments to go to the scammers, this 
doesnt change the fact he authorised them and is therefore presumed liable for the loss in 
the first instance.
Recovery of the payments Mr C made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Bank of Scotland to do 
anything further until it had been notified there was a scam. Mr C made eight payments in 
total to the scammer  four by debit card and two by the faster payment system.
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card 
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are 
resolved between card issuers (here, Bank of Scotland) and the merchant (here, C).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would never have been successful. This is 
because C provided the services that Mr C had requested of it  the purchase of crypto  
and this was provided into an account in Mr Cs name. So, a successful chargeback would 
never have been possible  and so I dont think that these payments were recoverable once 
they had been made.
Similarly, while Bank of Scotland could have contacted the merchants (B and P) for the 
payments made by faster payment, again the service of providing crypto had been 
completed. So, B and P had done what was asked of them here too.
While I understand Mr C then went on to move the crypto to another wallet which was in the 
control of the scammer, this isnt the fault of B, P or C and therefore, I dont think Bank of 
Scotland could have recovered any of the payments in dispute.
Should Bank of Scotland have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think Bank of Scotland reasonably ought to have 
prevented some or all of the payments Mr C made in the first place  therefore preventing 
the loss before it happened.
Mr C authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Bank of Scotland should have taken 
proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or 
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, 
there is a balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and 
scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in 
every transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Bank of Scotland should fairly and reasonably:
Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, which banks 
are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.So, Ive carefully considered what this means for Mr C and the payments in question here.
The first six payments made were all £100 or less  so I wouldnt expect Bank of Scotland to 
have made any interventions here, or been obliged to contact Mr C.
However, I can see Bank of Scotland did intervene when Mr C attempted to make a payment 
of £4,550 to B. Mr Cs internet banking was blocked  and he had to confirm the transaction 
over the phone.
Ive listened to the call, and Bank of Scotland warned Mr C about investment scams  it also 
asked him if there was any third party involved to which Mr C answered no  although this 
wasnt the case. Bank of Scotland also said the business B, Mr C was attempting to pay 
didnt have good reviews online  and it seemed scammers were using B as a means to 
defraud customers. Mr C said he would cancel the payment and make the payment though a 
different business  but he then went on to pay B anyway.
I do think perhaps Bank of Scotland could have asked more questions than it did, but I dont 
think this would have stopped Mr C from making the payments. I also dont think that asking 
Mr C to come into branch at this point would be proportionate to ask Mr C to visit the branch 
or inform the police as many customers use B and other crypto providers to make genuine 
crypto investments. Also, by this stage Mr C believed that he was making payments towards 
a genuine investment and was taken in by the scammers  and his later behaviour also 
gives me doubts that he would have listened to a clearer warning even if it was given. Ill 
explain why.
When Mr C attempted to make the next payment of £7,500 this was again blocked by Bank 
of Scotland. Mr C says that he explained the situation and was told that there was a risk he 
was being scammed  but he believed that his account (with the scammer) was collapsing 
and that he had no choice but to make the payment, so he told Bank of Scotland it was 
genuine, and to authorise it. Mr C says he was very open during this call  and so Bank of 
Scotland should have done more to stop him  but I dont think he told it everything that had 
happened so far, and again, his later behaviour leads me to doubt that he wouldnt have 
made this payment. 
Finally, when Mr C was told by the scammer that he needed to pay commission in order to 
access the supposed profits he had made, a further payment of £2000 was again blocked. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr C and Bank of Scotland  and Mr C was clearly told that 
everything he had said had the hallmarks of a scam  and Bank of Scotland refused to make 
the payment or remove the block until he visited a branch.
On visiting the branch, Mr C initially told branch staff he wanted to withdraw £2000 in cash to 
pay his son  but this wasnt true. He had been told by the scammer to deposit the cash into 
another account in order to make the payment. The branch staff then called the fraud 
department of Bank of Scotland for advice.
While on the call, Branch staff voiced their concerns that Mr C was not being truthful. Mr C 
then explained what he had been told to do  and he still wanted to make the payment, even 
given all the information he had been told, including that this was another way in which the 
scammer was trying to get more money and it would almost certainly be a further loss. It 
wasnt until Bank of Scotland involved the police who visited Mr C at home as he didnt want 
to speak with them in branch, he finally accepted he had been the victim of a scam.
I dont blame Mr C for what happened here  the scammer had obviously utterly convinced 
Mr C of their legitimacy, and I can understand Mr C was desperate to not lose the money he had already paid. But it seems to me that no matter what Bank of Scotland said to him, he 
was determined to continue with what he was doing until the most extreme measure of 
involving the police was taken.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for Mr C and the situation he now finds himself in. He has 
been the victim of a wicked and cruel scam. 
However, the loss suffered is ultimately caused by the scammers themselves  not Bank of 
Scotland. And I cant ask Bank of Scotland to refund this loss when I think Mr C would have 
made the payments regardless of the warnings given.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman