DRN-3872037
Complaint
Mr E has complained about an overdraft and subsequent limit increases Bank of Scotland 
Plc (trading as Halifax) provided to him. He says the overdraft and subsequent limit 
increases were unaffordable and shouldnt have been provided. 
Hes also complained that Halifax failed to monitor his overdraft usage and take appropriate 
action even when it was clear he was experiencing difficulty.
Background
Halifax initially provided Mr E with an overdraft with a limit of £300, this was increased to 
£750 in December 2011, £900 in January 2012, £1,600.00 in June 2012 and finally 
£2,000.00 in January 2013.  
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr E and Halifax had told us. And she thought 
Halifax hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr E unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Mr Es complaint be upheld. Mr E disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My provisional decision of 14 December 2022
I issued a provisional decision  on 14 December 2022 - setting out why I intended to uphold 
Mr Es complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And I also explained that Halifax would be familiar 
with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking at 
whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying overdraft charges.
I then went on to state that Halifax needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, what this means is Halifax needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr E could afford to repay before advancing any credit. 
I explained that our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a 
lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks 
to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it 
 in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Halifax said it agreed to Mr Es initial overdraft application and his limit increases after it 
obtained information on his income and expenditure and carried out a credit search. On the 
other hand, Mr E said the overdraft was unaffordable and was provided to him while he was 
in a debt management plan.
I carefully thought about what Mr E and Halifax had said. 
I started this section of my provisional decision by stating that Halifax did have some 
information, at least about Mr Es income as a result of his salary being paid into his account, 
when deciding whether to lend to him. And it was fair to say that Mr E did have a salary 
which would, in normal circumstances, be enough to suggest that he could afford to repay 
the overdraft limit increases he was given. 
However, I was mindful of the particular circumstances here and the fact that our 
investigators assessment relied on a number of facts that appeared to be inaccurate. 
Firstly, our investigator said that she couldnt say that Halifax ought reasonably to have 
known that Mr E was in a debt management plan. But having looked at Mr Es account 
statements, I could clearly see a monthly payment of £70 being made to a debt management 
company at the beginning of each month. So I was satisfied that Halifax ought to have been 
aware that Mr E was in a debt management plan. 
Our investigators assessment also stated that Mr E was always within his overdraft limit. But 
Mr Es account statements also showed unplanned overdraft fees, which are only ever paid 
where a customer exceeds their overdraft limit.   
That said, and notwithstanding what I had highlighted, I wasnt too concerned about the 
decision to provide the overdraft in the first place and the decisions to increase the limit to 
£750 and then £900. I said this because while Mr E was still in a debt management plan at 
this time and he was spending periods with an overdrawn balance, the credits going into his 
account ensured that he spent reasonable periods of time in credit. 
However, I was concerned about what happened during the course of 2012. Mr E started to 
exceed his limit. And the number of transactions being made to betting companies was 
increasing. While I was prepared to give Halifax the benefit of the doubt for the June 2012 
increase to £1,600.00 because Mr Es account received a reasonably large influx of funds 
around this time, I did think that the decision to increase Mr Es limit to £2,000.00, in            
January 2013, wasnt fair and reasonable.  
I explained that this was because despite Halifax increasing Mr Es overdraft limit to 
£1,600.00 in June 2012, Mr E continued to exceed his limit. And I could see that he incurred 
unplanned overdraft fees each month in the months leading up to the increase. I could also 
see that Mr E had sporadic unpaid direct debits and the number of gambling transactions 
being made from the account increased further. I thought that this pointed to a concerning 
position  especially when this was combined with the fact that Halifax ought to have 
realised that Mr E was already in a debt management plan. 
Furthermore, while I didnt know what Halifax might have seen as a result of any credit 
searches it may have carried out, the information I had seen about Mr Es financial 
circumstances showed that his debts elsewhere were increasing. While there were the 
payments being made to credit cards from this account, I was also aware that Mr E took out 
loans too. 
I thought that even if Halifaxs searches didnt pick up all of this lending, bearing in mind 
everything else it knew, it ought to have realised that Mr Es financial position was 
deteriorating. And given the transactions on Mr Es account, I thought that it ought to have 
had some idea why this was happening too. Therefore, while the limit increase in January 2013 was relatively modest, I was satisfied that Halifax nonetheless ought to have realised 
that increasing Mr Es overdraft limit to almost the amount of his monthly salary wasnt fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I was also satisfied that Halifax ought to have realised that Mr E was already in a precarious 
financial position at this stage. And, in these circumstances, not only should Halifax have 
declined Mr Es application for a limit increase to £2,000.00 but it should have taken steps to 
have withdrawn the overdraft facility completely. 
Indeed, the information I had seen suggests that Mr E went on to develop a reliance on 
payday loans and other high-cost credit after his limit was increased in January 2013. So 
Halifax ought to have realised that Mr E was struggling to manage his overdraft and offered 
him assistance. And the fact that Halifax continued to allow Mr E to use his overdraft in the 
same way notwithstanding the annual reviews which took place and what was happening on 
his account, was further reason why I was satisfied that Halifax failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr E. 
Mr E ended up paying additional interest as a result of Halifax increasing his overdraft limit 
and then continuing to allow him to use it even though it was unsustainable. So I was 
satisfied that Mr E lost out because of what Halifax did wrong and this left me intending to 
issue a final decision that upheld Mr Es complaint.
I then went on to set out a method of calculating compensation which I thought addressed 
Halifaxs shortcomings and Mr Es resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Halifax confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision. It agreed to pay compensation in 
line with the proposed direction in my provisional decision As the amount of compensation 
exceeded the outstanding balance on Mr Es overdraft, Halifax confirmed that it would 
remove the facility from his account too.
Mr E confirmed that he accepted my provisional decision too.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank the parties for their responses to my provisional decision. And in particular Im 
pleased to see that my findings have been accepted. 
As the parties have agreed with the findings I reached in my provisional decision and in it I 
set out in some detail why I intended to uphold Mr Es complaint, Ive not been persuaded to 
alter my conclusions. Given Ive found that Halifax ought to have taken steps to remove the 
overdraft from Mr Es account a number of years ago, Im satisfied that its proposed course 
of action to do so once it has paid the compensation due to Mr E, is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
So overall and having considered everything, including the parties responses to my 
provisional decision, Im still upholding Mr Es complaint. And I remain satisfied that Halifax 
needs to put things right. 
Fair compensation  what Halifax now needs to do to put things right for Mr EHaving thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Es complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Es overdraft balance to ensure that from February 2013 all 
interest, fees and charges are refunded. 
AND
As an outstanding balance will not remain on Mr Es account once these 
adjustments have been made Halifax can remove Mr Es overdraft in the way that 
it has proposed to. 
AND
As the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges will result in there no 
longer being an outstanding balance, any extra should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Mr E along with 8% simple interest on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. Halifax should remove any adverse information it has recorded about 
this overdraft from Mr Es credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest. Halifax must 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision of 14 December 2022, Im 
partially uphold Mr Es complaint. Bank of Scotland Plc should put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman