DRN-2451859
The complaint
B has complained (through its representative Mr O) about the way HSBC UK Bank PLC 
(HSBC) dealt with issues in accessing its account.
What happened
B is a sports club.  Mr O is one of its officers and brought this matter to us on the clubs 
behalf.  
B has an account with HSBC.  In mid-2019, HSBC wrote to Mr O (in his capacity as an 
officer of B) because theyd identified the account hadnt been used for over a year.  So they 
asked B to call them to complete a dormancy review.  The letter said that HSBC would ask 
some security questions during the call to confirm the callers identity.
Mr O telephoned HSBC to deal with this.  HSBC took him through their security procedure 
which, unfortunately, he failed.  So HSBCs adviser told him hed need to go into the branch 
so staff there could help him.  
Mr O complained to HSBC as he didnt think the security questions hed been asked were 
appropriate.  HSBC responded by telling him that the checks made were part of the steps 
they take to protect their customers interests.
HSBC also told Mr O that to complete their checks, theyd need him to reset Bs business 
telephone banking.  Theyd ordered a pack so he could do that.
Over the following weeks, Mr O went to the branch several times to provide evidence of his 
identity.  And he tried to set up the telephone banking, part of which had to be completed on 
the phone.  Each time he tried to do this, he was prevented from continuing the calls hed 
made to HSBC.  This went on for about seven weeks.
At the end of August, Mr O spoke to a member of HSBCs staff who explained that more 
than one issue had been identified.  He was told that some post sent to the address HSBC 
had for B had been returned marked gone away  so HSBC wanted to check the 
correspondence address.  And he was told that his voice was showing as a partial match to 
a known fraudster  so every time he called, he was being locked out of HSBCs system.  
HSBC said that theyd investigate why this was happening.  But, in the meantime, they 
asked Mr O not to phone them, to avoid being him being locked out again.
Mr O had lodged further complaints with HSBC during this period.  HSBC investigated these 
and wrote to Mr O in October.  They told Mr O that their staff had dealt with him correctly  
but their system hadnt updated as it should have done to show hed passed security.  HSBC 
apologised for this, and for not actioning a reset after the voice match had been investigated.  
HSBC offered B £300 compensation for what had happened.
Mr O brought Bs complaint to our service.  He told us he was unhappy about the delays in 
dealing with the review B had originally been asked to do and about some of the suggestions 
HSBC staff had made about how to address the issues.  And he felt that the information and 
demands made of him by HSBC were unfair and discriminatory.
Our investigator looked into the complaint.  She concluded that HSBC had acted fairly 
towards B and Mr O in most areas.  And, where they hadnt, she thought £300 was a fair 
amount of compensation for HSBC to pay.
Mr O didnt accept the investigators view on behalf of B.  So Ive been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding the complaint Mr Os made on behalf of B.  But I dont think 
HSBC need to pay B any more compensation than theyve already offered.  Ill explain why.
But before I do that, I want to make clear that Ive only looked at the complaint that arose 
from the events of July and August 2019 and the compensation Ive directed be paid relates 
only to those events.  Ive seen that Mr Os recently referred a new complaint to our service 
on behalf of B.  Well investigate that separately from whats been considered here. 
My role is to consider whether HSBC made any mistakes in the way they dealt with B  and, 
if they did, the impact that had on the club.  Thats a global assessment of everything they 
did.  So, while Mr Os raised many individual issues, Im not going to address each of those 
separately.  But I have looked at everything hes raised in reaching my decision.
I can see why Mr Os unhappy here.  He was repeatedly asked to visit the branch, and to call 
HSBC to progress matters, only to find he couldnt do that  so B couldnt use the account.  
Theres no doubt that was frustrating and inconvenient.
But Ive seen that the problem stemmed from issues around security.  HSBC are obliged to 
have security procedures in place.   And that does sometimes mean that customers are 
inconvenienced if they fail the security process and find their accounts are temporarily 
blocked.
Ive seen thats what happened here on the first occasion.  Mr O contacted the bank, but 
didnt answer the security questions correctly.  So Im satisfied it was reasonable for HSBC 
to block the account then.  I dont agree with Mr O that the questions he was asked were 
unfair.
But I do think what happened after that shouldnt have happened.  Mr O tried to set up 
telephone banking  as HSBC had told him to do.  That required him to be sent an email 
code  which he didnt get until he chased the matter up with the branch.  And it then 
required him to ring HSBC to finalise the setting up  which he couldnt do because of the 
alerts on the account.
Mr Os complained that part of the inconvenience he suffered was due to calls being 
dropped and promises to return calls not being kept.  And hes complained he wasnt told 
what the problem was until late August.
I can understand why Mr O wants to know this.  But I dont think thats information he was 
entitled to  because it wouldve involved HSBC sharing information about their security 
procedures.  And HSBC are entitled to keep that confidential, to stop fraudsters learning how 
to get around measures they put in place.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to decide that the 
HSBC staff Mr O spoke to should have told him why they couldnt continue their calls.But I dont think it should have taken HSBC as long as it did to identify their system kept 
reinstating a block every time Mr O called them and to start investigating that.  And I think its 
fair that HSBC compensate B for the inconvenience that caused the club.
I think the £300 compensation HSBC has already offered is the right level to reflect that 
inconvenience to B.  Our investigator explained to Mr O that, as its B which has the account, 
its B which is entitled to bring the complaint, and to any redress we think its fair for HSBC to 
pay.  So Ive based that assessment on the inconvenience to B, not on the frustrations Mr O 
suffered personally.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Bs complaint about HSBC UK Bank PLC and 
direct HSBC to pay B the £300 compensation theyve previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B and B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 May 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman