DRN-2138290
The complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr C took out PPI in 1987 around the same time as he applied for a mortgage. The
sale took place in one of the banks branches. The PPI gave him accident, sickness and
unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my decision on the
balance of probabilities  so, on what I think is most likely given the available evidence and
what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time. 
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C says he was told he had to take out PPI to get the mortgage, he wasnt told it was 
optional. I cant know what was said in the meeting and Halifax hasnt got any of the 
paperwork from Mr Cs sale. But this isnt surprising as it was so long ago  and it doesnt 
automatically mean the policy was mis-sold. The bank says its more likely than not that the 
optional nature of the policy was verbally explained to Mr C in good time before the sale 
concluded. I have considered Mr Cs comments carefully, but I also have to take into 
account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what he recalls. Overall, 
without stronger evidence, I cant fairly conclude Halifax didnt make it clear Mr C had a 
choice about PPI  and he didnt opt to take it out.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr C. And I think it seems to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances. Mr C recalls he was entitled to basic sick pay of 
£330 a week and it would have been paid indefinitely. An employment contract usually sets 
out the terms under which an employer will pay sick pay  it is uncommon not have a time 
limit. Mr C hasnt been able to provide any documents to show what his contractual 
entitlement was but thats understandable given how long ago the sale was. Without more 
certainty about his contractual sick pay, I cant fairly conclude it meant he had no need for 
the PPI. I say this as the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits for up to 12 
months for each successful accident and sickness claim. And it also offered redundancy 
cover for up to 12 months. Mr C has explained it would be easy for him to get causal shifts if 
out of work, and that he had other ways of earning through his interests but neither of these 
sources of income were guaranteed. He also said his parents would have helped but thats 
not suitable alternative protection as its not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can 
change. Overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful if Mr C was sick or lost his job. It gave 
him certain protection beyond his other means. And this could have been important given 
the consequences of defaulting on a long-term debt secured against his home.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr C all the information he needed before deciding
to buy PPI. I dont know that it pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr C
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main exclusions. I also dont know when
it first made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable.
So I dont think better information about the policy wouldve changed his mind about buying
it.
It follows I dont think Mr C has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman