DRN-4049122
The complaint
Mr B complains that J.P. Morgan Europe Limited (Chase) has returned payments 
transferred into his account. 
What happened
Mr B says that a friend of his who was moving abroad had car parts that he gave to Mr B to 
sell. Mr B listed the car parts for the amounts his friend advised on a social networking site 
and received a call from someone Ill refer to in this decision as D who was interested in the 
parts. D came to visit Mr B and agreed to buy all the items listed for the prices advertised. 
Mr B says D made separate payments for each item in January 2023 as follows:
- £155
- £1,340
- £1,995
- £2,995
Later that day Chase received a call from Ds bank to say that the funds sent to Mr B were 
scam funds. Chase contacted Mr B and asked him to provide proof of entitlement to the 
funds. Mr B provided Chase with listings from the site they were advertised on. 
Chase wasnt satisfied with the evidence provided by Mr B and returned funds to D and 
closed Mr Bs account with immediate effect.  
Mr B was unhappy with Chases response and brought a complaint to this service. He would 
like the funds D sent him back and for any fraud markers to be removed. Mr B says he has 
had to borrow money from a friend to pay his rent and bills and that what has happened has 
made him feel depressed. 
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
that Mr B hadnt provided enough evidence to demonstrate that the funds he received were 
from a legitimate sale of car parts, so he thought Chase had acted reasonably.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for a final decision, so his complaint 
has been passed to me to consider. He said he has sold items and not received any 
payment for them because of the actions of Chase but now needs to pay the owner of the 
parts. Mr B says he doesnt have any further evidence to provide as D called him and they 
didnt exchange messages on the social networking site. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
in other words on what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
In this case Mr B says he sold car parts to D and so is entitled to the funds that entered his 
account for this purpose. But D says he made payments to Mr Bs account because he was 
the victim of a scam. I need to decide which account of what happened is more likely and 
whether Mr B has provided enough evidence to show its more likely than not that he sold 
car parts to D. 
When Chase first asked Mr B to provide proof of entitlement to the funds he received from D, 
Mr B provided:
- A screenshot of a call he says was with D which says [D] Car Parts and a mobile 
telephone number. 
- The site listings Mr B says he posted.
The mobile telephone number provided in the first screenshot was Mr Bs. The listings were 
for:
- Timing belt - £155
- Clutch kit - £2,755
- Catalytic converter - £1,340
None of the listings showed the date they were listed. Chase wasnt satisfied with this 
evidence and asked Mr B for further evidence. It also noted Mr B hadnt provided any 
evidence in respect of an incoming payment of £1,995 and one payment didnt match the 
advertised amount. Mr B provided a further screenshot of a listing for three clutch kits 
advertised for £1,995  again without any dates. 
Mr B has provided other evidence to this service. He has provided his listings of the items he 
was selling with dates and another screenshot which says [D] Car Parts but a different 
mobile number to the previous version (which included Mr Bs own mobile number).
Having carefully considered the evidence I consider Chase acted reasonably in returning the 
funds Mr B received to D following the scam claim and closing Mr Bs account. Ive taken 
into account the following:
- When Mr B first provided evidence to Chase of a call from D the mobile number 
displayed was his own. The number is the one Mr B has used when bringing his 
complaint to this service.
- Im not satisfied with Mr Bs explanation of how he came to have car parts to sell. He 
told our investigator that a friend had taken a car apart and didnt have the space to 
store the parts (and was going abroad). But he has provided listings in respect of 
multiple clutches that he says D bought. I cant see that there would be multiple 
clutches from one car. Mr B has also provided inconsistent testimony in that he told 
Chase that the clutch kits (listed for £1,995) were from a different model of car but 
was clear in his call with the investigator that the parts came from one car.
- When Mr B first provided listings to Chase there were no dates to show when the 
items were listed. 
- It seems odd that D made multiple payments if he agreed to buy everything Mr B 
listed. I consider that if D was buying all the car parts, hed have made a single 
payment. And one payment doesnt match the amount on the listing provided by Mr B 
(a clutch kit was advertised for £2,755 but the incoming payment was for more than 
this - £2,995).
- Mr B says that his telephone number appeared on all the listings but hasnt provided 
any evidence that this was the case. 
- The prices listed for the car parts seem inflated when considering other second-hand 
parts listings, so it seems odd that D bought all the items at these prices.- Im not persuaded that the pictures Mr B provided of the parts he sold are of car parts 
he had in his possession. Most are images from the internet so dont demonstrate Mr 
B had the parts. There is a photograph of the catalytic converter which appears to 
have been taken on the floor of a garage, but the same picture has appeared on 
another listing unrelated to Mr B in the past (and at a much lower price). So Mr B 
hasnt been able to produce any evidence that he had car parts to sell. 
- Mr B has been given opportunities to provide evidence that he was entitled to the 
funds but hasnt done so. 
- The text exchange Mr B has provided saying, Stop messaging me, which he says D 
sent him when he asked for evidence to prove he was entitled to the funds, doesnt 
show a time or date so I cant safely conclude D sent this message. 
Overall, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, Im not satisfied he has shown that he was 
entitled to the funds he received from D. I consider Chase acted reasonably in returning Ds 
funds and closing Mr Bs account with immediate effect in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the account. It follows that Im not asking Chase to remove any fraud markers.   
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman