DRN-3973133
The complaint
Mr I and Mrs I complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) has unfairly turned down their 
claim on their home insurance policy for storm damage.
What happened
Mr I and Mrs I say their pergola and the foundations to their fence suffered damage during a 
storm. So they made a claim on their home insurance policy.
The surveyor AXA sent to inspect the damage said it was due to the natural breakdown of 
materials and was not the result of an insured cause.
Mr I and Mrs I complained to AXA both about the surveyors findings and about his 
behaviour during the survey. In relation to the surveyors behaviour, AXA paid Mr I and Mrs I 
£25 as a goodwill gesture. But it said it had been right to turn down their claim.
So Mr I and Mrs I brought their complaint to us. The investigator who looked at it didnt 
uphold it. On the evidence, our investigator didnt think the storm was the main cause of the
damage, so she didnt think AXA had unfairly turned down Mr I and Mrs Is claim.
Mr I and Mrs I disagree. They remain unhappy about the surveyors behaviour during the 
survey and AXAs decision to turn down their claim. So Mr I and Mrs Is complaint has come 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr I and Mrs Is complaint. Ill explain why.
For storm claim complaints, we look at three main issues:
1.    Was there a storm?
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with the damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer to any of these questions is no, were likely to say a claim for storm damage 
wont succeed.
In Mr I and Mrs Is case, AXA hasnt disputed there was a storm. So the answer to the first 
question is yes. And the damage for which Mr I and Mrs I are claiming  damage to their 
pergola and to their fence foundations  is consistent with the damage a storm can cause. 
So the answer to the second question is yes.
But, based on the evidence I have, I think the answer to the third question  was the storm 
the main cause of the damage?  is no. And in considering this issue, Ive borne in mind 
that, in making their claim, it is for Mr I and Mrs I  not AXA  to show the damage was most 
likely caused mainly by a storm. 
Ive started by looking at the evidence AXA has relied on to turn down Mr I and Mrs Is claim. 
AXAs surveyors findings are summarised in a letter sent to Mr I and Mrs I. In relation to the 
pergola, it says:
The pergola has a polycarbon sheeting as the roof with an outside cooking facility with a 
chimney [which] goes through the roof. Previous repairs are visible to the polycarbonate 
sheets. Water has been ingressing for a period of time. There is flashband around the 
chimney. The storm has merely highlighted there is an issue.
In relation to the fence foundations, the surveyors letter says: 
Where the wooden fence and post goes into the ground there is visible cracking to the 
mortar. This is a natural breakdown of materials over a period of time where the fence is 
pulling away from the ground and cannot be attributed to storm. The cause of the damage to 
the fence is considered to be due to natural breakdown of materials and not the result of an
insured cause.
The above summaries are consistent with what the surveyor says in his report, and his 
report findings are supported by a series of photographs of both the pergola and the 
fence/its foundations.
Mr I and Mrs I havent given us much evidence to support their view that the storm was the 
main cause of the damage theyre claiming for. Notes from their broker say a contact of Mr I 
and Mrs I, whos referred to as an insurance claims surveyor, inspected the fence 
foundations and told Mr I and Mrs I there was a possible subsidence claim. But Ive seen no 
expert opinion to support this statement  or to support Mr I and Mrs Is view that a storm 
was the main cause of the damage to the pergola and the fence foundations.
My role isnt to decide what caused the damage to Mr I and Mrs Is pergola and fence 
foundations. Its to decide if AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down their claim. 
I think AXAs surveyors findings are persuasive. What Mr I and Mrs I say  without any 
expert evidence to support their view  isnt enough to persuade me theyve shown  as they 
need to for their storm damage claim to succeed  that a storm was most likely the main 
cause of the damage theyre claiming for. 
Mr I and Mrs Is policy has a general exclusion for any gradual deterioration or maintenance-
related loss or damage, including wear and tear. AXA has relied on evidence from its expert 
that the damage Mr I and Mrs I are claiming for was caused by a natural breakdown of 
materials. I think AXA has acted fairly and reasonably in relying on that evidence to apply 
the policy exclusion to turn down Mr I and Mr Is storm damage claim.
Mr I and Mrs I also had accidental damage cover under their home insurance policy. I cant 
see that AXA has considered whether it should accept Mr I and Mrs Is claim under this head 
of cover. But the policy exclusion for gradual deterioration or maintenance-related loss or 
damage also applies to claims for accidental damage. So, based on AXA;s surveyors 
evidence, I dont think a claim for accidental damage succeeds either.
I know Mr I and Mrs I are unhappy about the surveyors behaviour during the survey. They 
say he was rude and arrogant and didnt listen to them. But AXA has already paid Mr I and 
Mrs I compensation of £25 as a goodwill gesture for this and I think thats fair and 
reasonable.Ive considered all the other comments Mr I and Mrs I have made as part of their complaint 
but they dont change my conclusions on it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr I and Mrs Is complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman