DRN-4020192
The complaint
Mr C complains that JAJA FINANCE LTD (JAJA) allowed him to make gambling transactions 
using his credit card after he asked them not to allow these types of transactions. 
What happened
Mr C says that since JAJA replaced his MasterCard with a Visa card, he has been able to 
make gambling transactions with his credit card, which he didnt want to happen. Mr C says 
that he had a compulsive gambling problem, and so it was important that these types of 
transactions werent allowed to go through. 
Mr C says he contacted JAJA in February 2021 to request gambling transactions were 
blocked, however, he says this didnt happen. And as a result, Mr C ended up spending a 
substantial amount of money using the credit card for gambling. 
JAJA explained that any transactions through gambling sites were blocked. But the 
transactions Mr C had made to gambling websites were done through online payment 
facilitators and so wouldnt register as a gambling transaction. In April 2021 JAJA offered to 
block all online transactions on the account. Mr C is unhappy this option wasnt offered to 
him when he called in February, and says had it been offered, he wouldnt have been able to 
use the card for gambling. 
Mr C also complained about how JAJA dealt with his complaint. He says that he had to 
contact it a number of times before he received a response. 
An Investigator looked into Mr Cs complaint, but they didnt think it should be upheld. They 
explained that the gambling transactions that had been made were done through a payment 
facilitator which wouldnt have flagged as a gambling transaction. The Investigator also didnt 
find that JAJA had done anything wrong when it didnt block all online transactions when he 
contacted it in February 2021.
Mr C didnt agree with the Investigators view. He says JAJA should have explained to him in 
February that online transactions could have been blocked  and not mentioned this two 
months later after he had called and emailed them a number of times. He says his initial 
request was to keep the card open for food purchases and not online transactions. And he 
feels JAJA did didnt give him the correct information or support.
Because Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the evidence available to me Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to him, however Ill 
explain my reasons for this below. 
JAJA have explained that it doesnt allow gambling transactions to be processed using the 
credit card. Looking at Mr Cs statements for the period in question, I cant see any 
transactions that are direct to gambling sites. So, it doesnt appear that JAJA allowed Mr C 
to complete any transaction directly through a gambling website. 
Mr C was able to process gambling transactions, however, these appear to have been 
processed using a payment facilitator. Because the transactions were processed using a 
third-party payment service to make the transactions, its unlikely they would have been 
flagged as gambling. Thats because these types of transactions could be used for many 
different types of purchases. So, I dont find that JAJA did anything wrong by allowing these 
transactions to go through, as it had no way of knowing they were for gambling.
In order to block online gambling, the transaction itself must be identifiable by its Merchant 
Category Code (MCC). This is a specific code that is used to identify merchants/sites by the 
goods or services they provide. 
There are many hundreds of category codes which are assigned to particular merchant 
types or names. In this case, the transactions were likely to have been declared as 
belonging to a payment facilitator site not a gambling site  and therefore would have had 
the category code assigned to this type of site. This means that JAJAs block, which is 
designed to stop transactions that have the relevant gambling MCC attached, didnt 
recognise the transactions Mr C was making as related to gambling. Which is why they 
werent stopped. 
This can seriously limit the effectiveness of gambling blocks, but unfortunately is something 
that is largely beyond the control of businesses like JAJA. It also means that I cant fairly say 
the block placed on Mr Cs card by JAJA failed to work, or that JAJA failed to apply it 
correctly.
I have taken on board Mr Cs point that JAJA could have blocked all online transactions 
when he called it in February. Unfortunately, JAJA hasnt been able to provide us with the 
calls Mr C had with it during this time. So, its difficult for me to know the conversations that 
took place at the time. But I have seen that Mr C wanted to continue to use the card for other 
purchases, and so I dont find it unreasonable of JAJA not to have offered to place a block 
on all online transactions. However, I can see that it did do this in April 2021 at Mr Cs 
request.
I do have sympathy for Mr Cs situation. He has clearly tried to take steps to prevent himself 
from being able to gamble using the card. But when deciding on a fair outcome here, like I 
have explained, I havent seen that JAJA allowed direct gambling transactions to be made. I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest that the gambling transactions Mr C was able to make 
ought to have been flagged by JAJA. And I dont think it was unreasonable of it to have not 
blocked or offered to block all online transactions. So, I cant fairly say that it has done 
anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Sophie WilkinsonOmbudsman