DRN-2557572
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy that Provident Personal Credit Limited trading as Satsuma Loans allowed 
a loan to be taken out in her name. She says the loan was applied for by her ex-partner 
without her permission but it is holding her responsible for the borrowing.
What happened
The loan was applied for on 3 September 2019 and paid into Miss Bs current account the 
following day. Once paid in £500 was withdrawn in cash, an online transfer of £30 was 
made, and there were several point of sale transactions. There were also a large number of 
online payments to gambling companies. These transactions variously involved the use of 
her card, PIN and online banking.
Miss B has said it was her ex-partner that applied for the loan and that she had no idea hed 
done so. Shes also said it was him that carried out the majority of the spending that followed 
the crediting of the loan funds to her account. She did carry out some spending, including 
the online transfer and some of the point of sale spending, though shes said some of that 
was as a result of pressure from her ex-partner. She did report the spending to her bank but 
didnt specifically raise a claim of fraud and none of the transactions were refunded.
Miss B discovered the loan when checking her emails on 13 September 2019. She had an 
email from Satsuma with the loan details and so she got in touch to find out what had 
happened. Miss B was particularly disappointed because shed previously asked Satsuma to 
block any future applications because her ex-partner had previously taken loans in her 
name, without her consent, and used the proceeds for gambling. 
Satsuma looked into what happened and acknowledged a mistake had been made in 
allowing the loan application to be made. And so it said it would waive interest on the loan. 
But it said the capital was still due to be repaid as the money had gone into Miss Bs account 
and spent from there. It said it couldnt do any more as Miss B hadnt lodged a fraud 
complaint  only one about the application being processed, despite the block  and she 
hadnt contacted the police.
Miss B wasnt happy with Satsumas response. She felt that, because it had made a mistake 
and she hadnt applied for the loan, she shouldnt be responsible for the debt at all. She 
brought her complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She thought that whilst it was clear 
Satsuma had made a mistake in allowing the application its actions to put things right were 
fair and reasonable.  
She noted the following in her findings:
Miss B had said that her ex-partner had carried out the gambling transactions and 
cash withdrawal because hed been able to get hold of her card and PIN (despite her 
having changed it);
Miss B said shed not raised a fraud claim as she didnt want any problems with her 
ex-partner at the time;
Miss Bs debit card had been replaced by her bank on 19 July 2019;
Miss B contacted her bank on 17 September 2019 to get another replacement card 
and told the bank about her ex-partners spending;
Miss B explained that her ex-partner had agreed to pay her back and had already 
had some of his own wages paid into her account;
Our investigator thought the arrangement Miss B seemed to have with her ex-
partner, where he was allowed to use the account, meant shed effectively authorised 
the transactions;
She also said that given there was genuine spending at the same time as the 
disputed it appeared Miss B had benefitted from at least some of the loan funds;
She could see that Miss B had logged onto her online banking on 6 September 2019 
which meant she ought to have been able to see the loan funds crediting her account 
and the resulting altered balance. She questioned why it then took until 
13 September 2019 for the loan application to be raised with Satsuma.
With all of this in mind the investigator said she thought it was more likely than not Miss B 
either applied for the loan herself or allowed her ex-partner to do so. And she thought Miss B 
also benefitted from the loan proceeds. And so, whilst acknowledging Satsuma had made an 
error, she didnt recommend Satsuma do any more than it already had. 
Miss B was unhappy with the investigators response. She said that her ex-partner had used 
her card without her permission and had at times forced her to carry out transactions. She 
thought it was unfair for her to be held responsible for the loan with that in mind and due to 
the fact that Satsuma had granted the loan despite her earlier request to block any lending.
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is missing or incomplete, I must make a finding on the balance of 
probabilities. That is to say what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss B, but Im not upholding her complaint. My reasons are broadly 
the same as our investigators, but Ill explain further.
It doesnt appear that theres any disagreement between parties that Satsuma did make an 
error in allowing the loan to be taken out. Satsuma has acknowledged that and its why 
interest on the loan has been waived. But I dont find that Satsumas error here means that 
the actual borrowing need not be repaid. My reasons for saying as much come down to the 
activity on the current account the money was paid into and how the loan funds were used. It 
should be noted that my findings dont relate to Miss Bs bank or any potential liability there 
for authorised or unauthorised transactions. Miss B may yet still be able to bring a separate 
complaint there. But the detail of the activity, and how it comes about, is relevant to this 
complaint.
The evidence available does suggest that, at least to some extent, Miss B did allow her ex-
partner to use her account. Thats reflected by the fact that he was having his wages paid 
into the account. And she has told us that was the case before. 
Further to that, Miss B has confirmed that she did carry out transactions on the account on 
the instruction of her partner. She has explained that she was sometimes forced to do so by 
him. That sounds like an awful situation for her to have been in and she has my sympathies. 
But it does mean that she actually authorised spending out of the account. That remains true 
even in situations where transactions are made under duress. And so, for those 
transactions, it is the case that Miss B knew about them and authorised them.It also seems that some of the transactions on the current account made after the loan funds 
credit are entirely genuine and were carried out by Miss B. Theres spending at a healthcare 
and beauty shop, a ladies jewellery store, and a card shop. It does seem more likely than not 
these were carried out willingly by Miss B. Which would mean the loan funds were used for 
genuine spending. That spending equates to over £220 of transactions.
Ive considered the £500 cash machine withdrawal thats made shortly after the loan funds 
credit the account. Miss B has said that this was her ex-partner too. But that doesnt seem to 
reflect what she told her bank when she reported the gambling transactions on 
17 September 2019. A new card had already been issued in July 2019 but Miss B didnt 
change the PIN at that time. And then, in September 2019, when another new card was 
issued, Miss B didnt change the PIN and told the bank it was safe. But if that were the case 
then it wouldnt have been possible for her ex-partner to have carried out the withdrawal. 
The same must then also be true of later cash machine withdrawals that take place on 
12 and 13 September 2019. If it isnt the case then, at the least, Miss B must have failed to 
take reasonable steps to safeguard her account as she didnt change her PIN when she 
knew it had been compromised. The same would seem to be true of her online banking login 
details. 
The reporting of the current account transactions on 17 September 2019 does throw up 
further questions. Miss B contacted Satsuma about the loan on 14 September 2019 and so 
she must have been aware of the activity on her account at that time. But she didnt report 
the matter to the bank for another three days. And her card was active and still being used 
during that time, allowing more money to be removed from the account. 
Our investigator highlighted that Miss B had logged into her online banking on 
6 September 2019 and so questioned why it was that Miss B didnt notice or report what was 
happening then. I cant see that weve had that question answered and I believe its a valid 
one. The account was clearly in a very different position to what it ought to have been. There 
had actually been an earlier login too. Miss B sent £30 to someone on 4 September 2019, 
the day the loan funds credited the account. And so, again, it ought to have been clear what 
was happening soon after the loan funds credited the account. But it actually took another 
ten days for events to be reported to Satsuma and thirteen days for them to be reported to 
the bank.
Ive also thought about the gambling transactions on the current account and how they have 
affected the balance over the period between when the loan was taken out and when the 
loan and associated spending was discovered. And it actually appears there is no loss to 
Miss B in respect of those transactions. There are actually winnings deposited into the 
account and they add up to around £135 more than the amount debited for gambling 
spending during the relevant period of 4 September to 14 September 2019.
There were further gambling transactions beyond those dates, but Miss B knew about the 
activity by then so it wouldnt be fair to consider it against the loan funds, in terms of loss, as 
it could have been prevented.
I cant say for certain what has happened here. But given the evidence and what Ive set out 
above I cant fairly say that Miss B didnt know about the loan and the spending that followed 
or, at least, that she ought to have been aware of it. The importance of this is that it would 
appear Miss B did have the opportunity to prevent the loss. This, combined with the 
evidence pointing toward her benefitting from at least some of the loan proceeds, and the 
fact that the money back into the account  from gambling outweighs the spending, means 
that I dont find it would be fair and reasonable to say the capital need not be repaid. And so 
I find Satsumas offer to not collect interest on the loan represents a fair and reasonable 
settlement of the complaint.
My final decisionI dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman