DRN-4105191
The complaint
Miss H complains about BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA 
Financial Services (BMWFS). She complains about adverse information on her credit file 
following a refinancing agreement which wasnt put in place.
What happened
Miss H referred a complaint to us along with her representative. As the complainant is Miss 
H, for ease, I have addressed my decision to her only throughout, when referring to what she 
and her representative has told us. 
In May 2017, Miss H acquired a used car using a hire purchase agreement with BMWFS. 
The agreement was taken over 48 months, with regular monthly repayments to be made and 
an optional final repayment of £6,569, if Miss H wished to purchase the car at the end of the 
agreement. 
When the agreement ended, Miss H looked to refinance the outstanding optional final 
repayment. In June 2021, she says she agreed a new monthly repayment with BMWFS. 
Miss H says she was expecting to receive her new agreement to e-sign but didnt receive it. 
She says she chased several times for it.
When Miss H eventually did manage to e-sign the agreement, she says she received an 
email saying authentication failed. So she says BMWFS advised her to send them her 
identification.
BMWFS sent her the agreement by post to sign and Miss H says she sent it back. BMWFS 
say they didnt receive it.
Miss H says she contacted BMWFS again in May 2022 and was told it is no longer possible 
to refinance the outstanding balance on her initial agreement. So, she raised a complaint 
with them.
While BMWFS were looking into things, Miss H received a letter demanding the outstanding 
balance due on her May 2017 agreement. Adverse information was also reported on Miss 
Hs credit file by BMWFS. 
BMWFS responded to Miss H and explained, following a review of all the communication 
between them, and based on the amount of communication they had with her over the 
course of a year, they were rejecting her complaint. They summarised the times they 
contacted each other and also acknowledged that Miss H might have had problems e-
signing the agreement, but they say there were occasions where Miss H said she sent the 
agreement back, but theres no evidence of this.
Miss H, unhappy with BMWFSs response, referred her complaint to our service. She would 
like the adverse information removed from her credit file and would like BMWFS to take the 
car back and clear the finance.
Our investigator found that BMWFS didnt need to do anything further. He explained that he 
had requested evidence that the relevant paperwork was sent to BMWFS in order to 
refinance, but Miss H couldnt provide it.
In summary he explained that he could see Miss H had issues with e-signing the agreement, 
so BMWFS sent the documents by post. He said as time went on and the documents 
requested werent received, it seems fair that BMWFS werent able to refinance the final 
repayment due to the time that had lapsed.
The investigator thought that BMWFSs reporting to Miss Hs credit file needed to give an 
accurate picture of the account, so he was satisfied that BMWFS didnt need to do anything 
further. The investigator went on to explain that Miss H had use of the vehicle for over a year 
after the initial hire purchase agreement ended, and Miss H hasnt made any payments 
towards it.
Miss H disagreed with the investigators view. Among other things, she said that she 
believed she chased BMWFS on several occasions to get the refinance document signed, 
but didnt believe BMWFS supported in maintaining communication. She queried why no 
alternative solution was offered by BMWFS, rather than relying on the lack of a signature on 
the refinancing document.
As Miss H disagreed with the investigators outcome, the complaint was passed to me to 
decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 April 2023 where I explained why I intended to uphold 
Miss Hs complaint. In that decision I said:
Miss H complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider 
Miss Hs complaint about BMWFS.
There are aspects of Miss Hs complaint I havent commented on  and thats deliberate. 
What follows are my comments on what I believe to be the main points to resolve this 
complaint in a fair way. I dont think I need to make findings at each individual stage, as its 
clear something went wrong which Ive explained below.
Ultimately, what I need to consider here is whether it was fair and reasonable for BMWFS to 
report adversely to Miss Hs credit file about the late payment on the May 2017 agreement. 
In order to reach my decision on this, I will need to consider the actions of both parties in the 
lead up to BMWFS declining to refinance the final repayment due.
BMWFS has provided their file on this complaint. Within it, I can see notes to show they had 
incorrectly recorded Miss Hs email address on their system. This mistake had only come to 
light in early November 2021. This had meant that she would not have received the 
documents or other emails each time they were re-sent to her by email, prior to November 
2021.
Thinking about things here, I can appreciate how frustrating this situation must have been for 
Miss H. Miss H has summarised the times she contacted BMWFS between May 2021 and 
November 2021. They are consistent with the notes BMWFS hold for Miss H. I can see she 
contacted BMWFS on several occasions, which is understandable, given she was expecting 
to receive a document to electronically sign.BMWFS also posted documents out to Miss H for her to sign which she says she sent back 
a few days after receiving them by first class post. BMWFS say they didnt receive the 
signed documents.
BMWFS also say they re-sent the link to e-sign the refinancing agreement in November 
2021. This was once they updated Miss Hs email address  and Miss H also confirmed she 
had received it. Unfortunately Miss H says she had issues signing them. She emailed 
BMWFS her identification as requested and further chased them, and says she didnt 
receive a response.
I think the circumstances above indicate that Miss H had attempted to engage with the 
process early on and had continued to do so for many months. So, had things not gone 
wrong with the way Miss H was sent the documents to e-sign, I think it is likely they would 
have been signed by Miss H and the agreement put in place  which would have led to the 
May 2017 agreement being settled. 
Ive also carefully considered what Miss H said about posting the agreements back to 
BMWFS. As our investigator pointed out, there is a lack of evidence here. But, Miss Hs 
testimony has been consistent about this. I think its obvious she was engaged with the 
process and was trying to sort out the issue. Her version of events around when she 
contacted BMWFS have been backed up by phone records and emails. So, on balance, Im 
satisfied the documents were most likely posted to BMWFS by Miss H when she says they 
were sent.
I appreciate BMWFS point that at times Miss H didnt proactively contact them to look into 
things further. But, I think both sides couldve done more here. For instance, Ive seen a note 
from BMWFS system that shows they were aware in July 2021 that documents hadnt been 
received when expected and that someone would contact Miss H, but this wasnt done for 
around another three months.
Thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I think BMWFS couldve done more to resolve the 
situation. Had events taken place as intended, I dont think it would have ultimately led to a 
late payment on Miss Hs May 2017 agreement, and in turn led to adverse reporting on her 
credit file.
So I do think BMWFS need to put things right here. Miss H has told our service about the 
stress this mistake by BMWFS has caused her. She has told our service about the lengthy 
calls she had to make to BMWFS to get this issue sorted, over several weeks and months. 
She has also told our service about a personal loss she had experienced and shared with 
BMWFS.
BMWFS say, due the time that has elapsed they are no longer able to offer refinance to the 
customer. And in any event, Miss H has said she wants to return the car and no longer have 
a relationship with BMWFS. So, I think its fair Miss H returns the car to BMWFS.
Thinking about whats fair and reasonable here, I think Miss H should be put back in the 
position she wouldve been in had nothing gone wrong. So, BMWFS should essentially treat 
Miss H as though the balloon payment was refinanced.
Miss H has continued to use the car. So, I think its fair for BMWFS to charge Miss H for this 
from when her initial agreement had ended, up until when she returns the car. I think a fair 
amount for this would be the amount agreed in the refinancing agreement for the extension 
that was attempted to be put in place.Ive asked BMWFS for a copy of the refinancing agreement that was due to be put in place 
in June 2021, once Miss Hs initial agreement had come to an end. BMWFS hasnt managed 
to provide me a copy of it yet, despite requesting for it over two months ago. In the interest of 
resolving this complaint in a timely way, I have still given my initial thoughts below on what I 
think would be a fair and reasonable way to resolve things.
Logically, I think it makes sense for BMWFS to charge Miss H what was agreed under the 
June 2021 refinancing agreement that was due to be in place. But Im mindful that I do not 
have sight of it to consider the costs. So, if BMWFS do object, I suggest they provide a copy 
of it before the deadline set in this provisional decision.
If BMWFS are unable to provide me with a copy of the June 2021 refinancing agreement 
that was intended to be put in place, or obtain it to consider the costs themselves, they 
should let me know, so that I can think about what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
It is likely payment for the fair usage of the car will be requested by BMWFS in a lump sum 
due. So I expect BMWFS to treat Miss H with forbearance and due consideration when 
requesting payment to be made here, given likely the large amount involved. This might 
involve a suitable repayment plan.
I set out that I intended to uphold this complaint. And I gave both parties the opportunity to 
send me any further information or comments they wanted me to consider before I issued 
my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
BMWFS hadnt responded to my provisional decision before the deadline I set.
Miss H responded and said, among other things, that she could not help but feel like 
BMWFS response to her complaint had been due to discrimination.
Miss H also didnt feel that the £150 I intended to instruct BMWFS to pay was a fair reflection 
for distress and inconvenience caused, but it was a relief that a resolution has been reached 
for this complaint.
Miss H also has said that while she agrees with how I set out how I intended to uphold this 
complaint and she said she is willing to explore returning the car to BMWFS, she would need 
her credit file rectified before any exchange could happen so she could secure finance on 
another vehicle.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H says she feels BMWFS has discriminated against her given the problems shes 
experienced but hasnt provided an explanation as to why she feels this way. Having looked 
at all the evidence, I accept she has received poor service, but I havent seen anything to 
suggest BMWFS has discriminated against her. So I hope that it helps Miss H to know that 
someone impartial and independent has considered her concerns here.
Miss H has suggested the payment I intended BMWFS to make for distress and 
inconvenience caused wasnt enough. Considering the circumstances, I think it is a fair 
amount and Im not persuaded to change it.Miss H also has said she was concerned whether aspects of what I intended BMWFS to do 
would be acted on in a timely manner, and that it was important to her that BMWFS did so. I 
cannot direct BMWFS to act on certain aspects of my decision first, but I would expect 
BMWFS to be understanding of Miss Hs circumstances and to help resolve this complaint 
with her. If Miss H accepts my decision, I suggest she contacts BMWFS directly to discuss 
next steps and I would expect them to resolve things in a timely way.
Given the circumstances, I still consider my provisional decision to be fair and reasonable. 
And neither party has added anything which gives me cause to change things here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and I instruct BMW Financial 
Services(GB) Limited trading as ALPHERA Financial Services to:
Remove any adverse reporting on Miss Hs credit file from the date the original 
agreement ended.
Pay Miss H £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes 
been caused.
Arrange for the car to be collected from Miss H (if this has not been done already)  
at no cost to her.
BMWFS are entitled to charge Miss H usage in line with the June 2021 refinancing 
agreement that was intended to be put in place from when the original agreement 
ended to when the car is collected.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman