DRN-2803613
The complaint
Mrs J complains about The Protection Specialist Limited, trading as The Fair Trade Practice 
(TPS) and their failure to supply her lender with the necessary documents to pursue a claim 
for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs J signed a letter of authority (LOA) instructing TPS to pursue a claim for 
mis-sold PPI against her lender, who Ill refer to as A. TPS submitted the claim to A in the 
same month.
In August, A acknowledged the complaint submitted by TPS. But they also requested proof 
of Mrs Js identity, as her name had changed since shed held an account with A. TPS didnt 
recognise this request and took no further action.
On 4 November, TPS chased A for an update on the claim. The following day, A responded 
explaining they still needed further information to proceed with the claim. Again, TPS failed 
to notice this request.
In February 2020, TPS identified As request, and asked Mrs J to provide a copy of her 
marriage certificate. Mrs J sent this to TPS immediately and it was forward to A the next day. 
But A refused to re-open Mrs Js claim due to the time that had passed since their initial 
request for further information. So, TPS closed the claim. Mrs J was unhappy about this, so 
she raised a complaint.
Mrs J was unhappy that TPS had failed to identify As request for further information sooner. 
Because of this, she felt shed lost the opportunity to have her PPI claim investigated and 
had lost of financially. She believed her claim wouldve been worth up to £3,000 as shed 
provided evidence to show PPI was applied to her account at the time. So, she wanted TPS 
to compensate her for the PPI refund she believed she wouldve received or contact A and 
make them re-open the claim.
TPS responded and upheld Mrs Js complaint. They agreed theyd made a mistake by failing 
to notice As request for information on two separate occasions. And they agreed this had 
led to Mrs Js claim being closed without investigation. But they didnt think agree they 
should compensate Mrs J for the PPI refund she felt she wouldve received, as they didnt 
think there was any guarantee the PPI had been mis-sold and the claim wouldve been 
successful. So, they offered Mrs J £50 worth of gift vouchers to recognise the upset shed 
been caused by her loss of opportunity. Mrs J remained unhappy with this response, so she 
referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He recognised it wasnt in dispute 
that TPS failure to notice As request for further information had led to the closure of Mrs Js 
claim without investigation. And he agreed Mrs J had lost an opportunity to have her claim 
reviewed because of this. But he didnt think he was able to say for certain Mrs Js claim 
wouldve been successful, as the PPI paid on the account needed to have been mis-sold 
and he was unable to be sure if A wouldve decided this. So, he didnt think TPS should 
compensate Mrs J for the PPI refund she thought she was likely to have received.
But he didnt think TPS offer of £50 worth of vouchers was enough to recognise Mrs Js loss 
of opportunity. So, he thought TPS should pay Mrs J a further £200, to recognise the upset 
she wouldve felt at realising her claim wouldnt be investigated. 
TPS accepted this outcome. But Mrs J didnt. She didnt think the additional £200 was 
enough to recognise the potential financial loss shed suffered. She thought it was more 
likely that not her claim wouldve been successful as shed supplied proof that PPI was on 
the account. So, she felt TPS should pay her a higher amount, to recognise the financial loss 
she felt shed been caused. As Mrs J didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for 
a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome. 
Im aware that TPS have already admitted they failed to identify As requests for further 
information. And theyve agreed their actions led to As of Mrs Js PPI claim. As this isnt in 
dispute, I dont intend to discuss this further as Im satisfied TPS failed to progressed Mrs Js 
claim reasonably. 
What is in dispute is what TPS have offered Mrs J to put things right. TPS offered Mrs J £50 
worth of vouchers to address her loss of opportunity. But Mrs J thinks her claim was likely to 
be successful, so she wants to be compensated for the value of the PPI refund she thinks 
she wouldve received. So, Ive considered what I think TPS should reasonably do to put 
things right in the section below.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make it intended to place Mrs J back in the situation she wouldve 
been, had TPS acted reasonably.
In this case, I wouldve expected TPS to have recognised As request for further information 
in a timelier manner and submitted the information to allow the claim to progress. Ive seen 
As letter sent in November 2019, which explained theyd still consider Mrs Js claim if the 
information was received within 14 days. This satisfies me that if TPS had acted reasonably, 
Mrs Js claim wouldve been investigated by A. So, I think Mrs J lost this opportunity due to 
the actions of TPS.
But crucially, as the claim wasnt investigated, Im unable to say for certain that Mrs Js claim 
wouldve been successful. Although I recognise PPI was applied to her account with A, this 
doesnt mean the PPI was mis-sold. Presence of PPI on an account doesnt mean a lender, 
in this case A, will uphold a claim and offer a PPI refund. 
So, if I was to direct TPS to compensate Mrs J for the potential refund she may have 
received, I could be placing Mrs J in a better financial position than she may have been if the 
claim was unsuccessful. And this isnt something Im able to do. Because of this, Im unable 
to say TPS should compensate Mrs J for the PPI refund she believes she wouldve received. But I dont think the £50 worth of vouchers TPS have offered is enough to recognise the 
upset Mrs J has been caused. As Ive explained, Mrs J is confident her claim wouldve been 
upheld. So, by not receiving an outcome from A on her claim as it was closed before 
investigation, I think Mrs J has been left feeling as though shes been financially impacted. 
And I think this would be upsetting and frustrating for Mrs J as this has occurred through no 
fault of her own. 
Our investigator recommended TPS pay a further £200 to recognise this upset and 
frustration. And I think this offer falls in line with our services approach to complaints of this 
nature and its one I wouldve directed had it not already been recommended. So, I think 
TPS should pay Mrs J the additional amount of £200, which brings the total compensation 
shes received to £250.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs J was hoping for. But I hope it goes some way to 
explaining why were unable to consider any potential refund Mrs J may have received if her 
claim had been successful.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Js complaint about The Protection Specialist 
Limited, trading as The Fair Trade Practice and direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs J an additional £200 to recognise her loss of opportunity and the upset this 
caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman