DRN-2344812
The complaint
Miss C complains that Blue Motor Finance Limited wont reimburse her for the cost of repairs 
to a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Miss C under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance that she signed in November 2016. The car had an engine fire in October 2019 and 
the cost of the repairs was £2,739.84. Miss C contacted her insurer and the manufacturer 
about the fire but neither contributed to the repair costs so she complained to Blue Motor 
Finance.
It said that it was Miss Cs responsibility to provide evidence that the fault was either there or 
developing at the point of sale and shed been able to drive 17,047 miles in the car, it had 
passed MOT tests and there wasnt a manufacturers recall for the car  all of which 
suggested that it was fit for purpose at the point of sale.
Miss C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that Miss Cs complaint should be upheld. She was of the opinion that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point that it was acquired by Miss C and that the car 
wasnt sufficiently durable. So she recommended that Blue Motor Finance should refund the 
cost of the engine replacement and one monthly payment for November 2019 when Miss C 
didnt have use of the car, both with interest, and pay £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused Miss C.
Miss C has accepted those recommendations but Blue Motor Finance has asked for this 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in summary, that:
the engine caught fire almost three years after purchase and no evidence has been 
supplied to support the garages explanation of a cracked degas hose - and repairs 
were carried out so it was unable to have the car inspected;
theres no evidence to show that the car was ever subject to a manufacturers recall 
and the manufacturer hasnt taken ownership of the issues or offered a goodwill 
service - as it has in other cases;
it the fire was due to a cracked degas hose, which was one of the reasons for a 
recall, its highly likely that the manufacturer is responsible for it;
Miss C was able to cover over 17,000 miles in the car so its reasonable to assume 
that, if the fault was there at the point of sale, it would have come to light sooner; and
it accepts that the degas hose may have not been checked at a service but its the 
customer's responsibility to check the coolant level regularly and, if the reduced 
coolant level had been detected, the fire could possibly have been prevented.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Blue Motor Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss C - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Miss C was about three years old, had been driven for 
35,000 miles and had a price of £9,599;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
I consider that theres enough evidence to show that there have been engine issues 
with this model of car and the manufacturer has issued safety recalls for some 
models and offers a remediation programme for other affected cars;
Miss C has contacted the manufacturer but it hasnt contributed to the cost of the 
repairs and Miss C has complained to this service about Blue Motor Finance;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that the cars engine was damaged in a fire and 
the repairing garage said that the engine needed to be removed, rebuilt and refitted 
and that some new parts were required;
although Miss C was able to use the car for nearly three years and to drive about 
17,000 miles in it before the fire, I consider it to be more likely than not that the 
engine fire was caused because of a fault with the car that was present when the car 
was supplied to Miss C and that it wasnt as durable as it was reasonable for her to 
expect it to be  so I find that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Miss C;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show Miss C should have done 
more to check the coolant level in the engine or that its likely that the fire would have 
been prevented if shed done so or if the car had been serviced in accordance with 
the manufacturers recommendation; and
Miss C has described the financial and other difficulties that shes experienced as a 
result of the issues with the car and I sympathise with her for those difficulties.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Blue Motor Finance to 
pay £2,739.84 to Miss C to reimburse her for the cost of the repairs to the cars engine, with 
interest. Miss C wasnt able to use the car for about a month after the engine fire. I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to refund to her the monthly payment 
that she made for November 2019, with interest, to compensate her for that loss of use.
These events have clearly caused distress and inconvenience for Miss C. I find that it would 
also be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to pay her £100 to compensate her for 
that distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Cs complaint and I order Blue Motor Finance Limited to:1. Pay £2,739.84 to Miss C to reimburse her for cost of the repairs to the cars 
engine.
2. Refund to Miss C the monthly payment that she made under the agreement for 
November 2019.
3. Pay interest on the amounts at 1 and 2 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
4. Pay £100 to Miss C to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Blue Motor Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. Blue Motor Finance must give Miss C a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman