DRN-2612346
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) provided incorrect account 
details on their mortgage redemption statement which led them to incur avoidable charges.
What happened
The history of this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr and Mrs L requested a redemption figure for their mortgage. Barclays sent this by 
letter and included two payment options via a cheque or bank transfer. Mr and Mrs L 
called their bank (Company A) to complete a transfer and settle the mortgage, but 
Company A said it was unable to send the funds with the details provided.
Mr and Mrs L complained to Barclays about the information theyd been given. And 
during this time a further direct debit payment was taken. 
Barclays apologised, saying it should have provided them with another payment 
option in its redemption statement. It included these additional payment details (for a 
BACS payment) and provided an up to date redemption statement. It also offered 
them £350 to account for the additional accrued interest charges, as well as delays 
theyd experienced when trying to contact Barclays. 
Mr and Mrs L contacted Company A to make the payment using the BACS details 
given. But they were told the account details couldnt be checked by the Confirmation 
of Payee system. Theyve said Company A told them if the payment was sent, it 
could go to the wrong account and wouldnt be recoverable. 
Mr and Mrs L told Barclays of this, and it confirmed the account details itd provided 
were correct and it was unable to offer further assistance on the matter.
The complaint was brought to our service. Mr and Mrs L requested we direct 
Barclays to refund any charges since the redemption statement, award further 
compensation for distress and inconvenience as well as lost interest from other 
accounts. And they said Barclays should provide valid account details that meet the 
Confirmation of Payee scheme. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she 
was satisfied Barclays had provided correct payment details, and the compensation 
offered was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed, saying Barclays shouldve provided them with more context 
around the Confirmation of Payee, provided them with other options which would 
remove the risk. They also said they remain concerned about the risks of making 
such a large payment with the details theyd been given. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why.
Barclays has acknowledged it shouldve provided Mr and Mrs L with details of how to 
make a BACS payment within its first redemption letter. To address the impact of this 
delay and poor service, it offered £350 (which included the additional charges 
incurred). Im satisfied this was a reasonable offer in light of the delays and impact of 
this mistake.
Our investigator has discussed previously the reasons the Confirmation of Payee 
service hasnt worked for this account. In summary this is because its a general 
account that is used for these types of payments, and it is the reference alongside 
this which ensures the payment is sent to the correct place. This seems reasonable 
to me in the circumstances and in line with my experience of a number of other 
banks.
Barclays has given Mr and Mrs L the details to make a BACS payment on multiple 
occasions, including its final response and by email. Ive seen nothing to suggest 
these details arent accurate.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ls initial hesitance to complete the transfer when Company 
A told them the details werent verified. However, Barclays reiterated the correct 
details to them so the payment could be made. And in the circumstances, Im not 
persuaded Barclays needed to do any more than this. I understand Mr and Mrs L 
have said Barclays couldve provided further context around the Confirmation of 
Payee for its account  but even if I agreed it should have, I cant see this wouldve 
changed anything. I say this in light of their ongoing reluctance to make the payment 
even after this context was given. 
If an issue did occur after the payment was made, Id expect Barclays to address this 
appropriately  but to my knowledge this hasnt happened. And overall, Im satisfied 
Barclays mistake has been addressed by its offer of compensation. Mr and Mrs L 
have requested the later interest charges are refunded, but I dont agree that it is 
responsible for their decision to not make the payment after it reiterated the account 
details it provided were correct. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman