DRN-2570033
The complaint
Mr N complains about Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream. Mr N says the he didnt 
have a relationship with Lending Stream. But, despite this, a number of entries were placed 
on his credit report by Lending Stream. 
Mr N complained that these entries should be removed but Lending Stream didnt do this. Mr 
N also said that it provided confusing and contradictory information about why these entries 
appeared on his credit report. 
What happened
In 2019 Mr N noticed that a number of entries from Lending Stream on his credit report. Mr N 
didnt have any accounts with Lending Stream and so he made a complaint. He requested 
that these entries were removed. 
Lending Stream initially said that the entries were due to a technical error and that it would 
remove them. It also noted that these were soft searches that would only be visible to Mr N. 
When this didnt happen, and the entries from Lending stream continued to appear on Mr Ns 
credit file, Mr N brought his complaint to this Service. 
After some investigation, Lending Stream has been able to confirm that the entries that 
appeared on Mr Ns credit file were generated due to the operation of an account Mr N held 
with a sister business also owned by Gain Credit called Drafty. Having looked at why these 
entries appeared they seem to be correct, albeit using company name Mr N didnt recognise. 
Mr N has acknowledged this is the case. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. Mr N disagreed. He thought that Lending 
Stream should have fully explained the situation at an earlier time and it didnt consider his 
complaint properly. He thought he should be paid compensation for this. 
Our adjudicator didnt change his opinion about the complaint. As no agreement has been 
reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive outlined above the entries on Mr Ns credit file are, in the main correct - the name of 
the business aside. They directly relate to the normal operation of Mr Ns Drafty account and 
this has been the case from the start. And they are only visible to him and the business. And 
so Mr N hasnt suffered any detriment due to these entries being on his file. And so I dont 
think Mr Ns complaint about any incorrect information on his credit file should succeed. 
Mr N says he should be paid compensation for the way that Lending Stream acted when he 
made his complaint. I agree that these entries would have appeared confusing to Mr N. I 
also accept that some of the correspondence surrounding this may have given him some 
cause for concern. And Lending Stream took longer than it should have done to explain what 
it had entered on Mr Ns his credit file and why this was. 
But Mr Ns credit file has always, essentially, shown correct entries. And as Ive said above, 
Mr N wont have suffered any material loss or damage due to this. So whilst I appreciate that 
he did need to contact Lending Stream, and he found this stressful at times, I dont think this 
is enough to warrant any compensation.
I appreciate this is not the answer that Mr N is looking for. But I hope my explanation is 
helpful. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Ns complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman