DRN-2792080
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I have complained that Nationwide Building Society switched their mortgage 
onto a new five-year product without first obtaining Mrs Is consent. To settle the complaint, 
Mr and Mrs I want Nationwide to switch the product onto a two-year tracker product, which is 
what they both wanted at the outset.
What happened
Mr and Mrs I have a mortgage account with Nationwide. Their existing mortgage product 
was coming to an end on 31 May 2020, and so in early April they went online to look for a 
new product. Mr and Mrs I decided on a two-year product and applied for this online. An 
offer for the two-year tracker was sent to Mr and Mrs I dated 6 April 2020. 
On 12 May 2020 Mr I telephoned Nationwide and cancelled the two-year tracker rate, as a 
new five-year fixed rate at 1.39% had come out a few days earlier which he wanted to apply 
for instead. The following day, after a call with the branch mortgage adviser and Mr I, a new 
five-year fixed rate product was arranged on an execution-only basis. An illustration was 
sent to Mr and Mrs I.
On 19 May 2020 at 08:51 Nationwide emailed Mr I with the mortgage offer. Nationwide 
asked if Mrs I would be available as her confirmation was required. Mr I emailed back a 
10:24 to confirm the offer was agreed.
At 12:57 on 19 May 2020 Nationwide emailed Mr I again to say that confirmation from Mrs I 
had been given.
On 9 June 2020 Mr I telephoned Nationwide. The note of the conversation says that Mr I 
said hed received confirmation of the five-year rate, but that hadnt been what he had been 
looking at  instead hed wanted the two-year tracker product.
This was logged as a complaint, and on 8 July 2020 Nationwide issued its final response 
setting out the history of the matter. Nationwide confirmed this was an execution-only 
product switch, and so no advice had been given by Nationwide; instead Nationwide had put 
in place the product Mr and Mrs I had selected after cancelling the two-year tracker  that is, 
the five-year fixed rate.
Mr and Mrs I then raised a new point  which is that they were now saying that the product 
switch had been done by Mr I alone, without Mrs Is consent. Nationwide didnt uphold this 
either, saying that its records showed that the branch adviser had spoken to Mrs I on 19 May 
2020.
Dissatisfied with Nationwides response, Mr and Mrs I brought the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Rather than this being the initial complaint raised by Mr I with 
Nationwide on 9 June 2020 (which is that hed not wanted the five-year product, only the 
two-year one), the complaint was that Mr I had arranged the product switch to the five-year 
rate without telling Mrs I and that this had been put in place by Nationwide without her 
consent.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Nationwides records confirmed Mrs I had given her consent to the product switch.
Mr and Mrs I didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the case. Theyve made some further points, which I summarise below:
Mr and Mrs Is solicitor has told them that Nationwide has acted unlawfully and contrary 
to regulation to change the mortgage without Mrs Is consent;
Mrs I agrees she spoke to Nationwide, but that all the agent did was to ask her if she 
was happy for Nationwide to discuss the product switch with Mr I and she said she was;
But Mrs I said she didnt know Mr I had deceived her and was taking out a different 
product from the one she thought they were having;
Mrs I has been let down by her husband and by Nationwide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First Ill explain that were not a regulator, or a court.  Ive noted what Mr and Mrs I have said 
about the advice their solicitors given them, which is that Nationwide has, in the solicitors 
opinion, acted unlawfully and contrary to regulation. But those are matters for the court or for 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to look at what happened and 
decide if Nationwide has acted fairly and reasonably.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I have to weigh up the 
available evidence and decide, on the balance of probabilities, what I think is most likely to 
have happened. Here there is a conflict in the evidence not just between Mr and Mrs I and 
Nationwide about what each party says actually happened. There is also a discrepancy in 
what Mr and Mrs I have each told Nationwide, giving two separate reasons for bringing the 
complaint. So I must weigh up the evidence and decide, where there is a conflict in what Ive 
been told, which evidence I find to be the most credible.
Generally where two joint account holders are diametrically opposed in what they each say 
has happened, we would dismiss the complaint without further consideration of the merits, 
which is allowed under our rules. Thats because its not possible for us to become involved 
in disputes between individual account holders if they are in conflict with one another, and so 
its better for the matter to be referred to a court. However, Mr I hasnt disputed Mrs Is 
contention that he acted deceptively when arranging the new product. In the circumstances, 
I will look at what each party has said.
Ive looked at everything that happened, and in particular Nationwides contemporaneous 
notes. These were recorded at the time of the events complained of and so Im satisfied they 
can be relied on as an accurate record of what was discussed at the time. The calls in the branch between Mr and Mrs I and Nationwide werent recorded. But there is 
a note of Mr Is call to Nationwide on 9 June 2020 when he called to complain that the five-
year fixed-rate product wasnt what he had wanted and that instead hed wanted the two-
year tracker rate. 
It was only after Nationwide issued its final response letter on 8 July 2020 explaining that the 
product had been arranged on an execution-only basis after Mr and Mrs I had cancelled the 
two-year tracker product that Mr and Mrs I raised a new issue  which is that Mr I had 
allegedly deceived Mrs I and arranged a product that she didnt want  and without her 
knowledge or consent.
The available evidence persuades me that Nationwide initially arranged a two-year tracker, 
but that Mr and Mrs I later switched this to a five-year product, on an execution-only basis. 
Ive listened to Mr Is call to Nationwide when on 12 May 2020 when he said he wanted to 
switch products, and he was very clear about wanting the five-year 1.39% fixed rate product. 
Im also satisfied from Nationwides records and the email trail that the two-year tracker 
product was cancelled by Mr and Mrs I. So I dont uphold the complaint Mr I made on 9 June 
2020, when he told Nationwide that he hadnt wanted the five-year fixed-rate but wanted the 
two-year tracker instead.
The evidence also persuades me that Nationwide obtained confirmation of the five-year fixed 
rate product from Mrs I before it was put in place. Mrs I accepts she spoke to Nationwide, 
and I think it is more likely than not that the adviser confirmed the product details with her. I 
say this because his email sent to Mr I at 12:57 on 19 May 2020 says hed had Ms Is 
confirmation.  
I appreciate that this is not what Mrs I says. But given that Mr and Mrs I changed their 
position on what they initially said their complaint was about (which was that Mr I didnt want 
the five-year product) to what they now say it is (that Mr I deceived Mrs I and took out the 
five-year product without her consent), on balance, Im satisfied that the evidence is 
weighted more heavily in favour of Nationwides, rather than Mr and Mrs Is, version of 
events.
I appreciate Mrs I believes she has been deceived by Mr I. Thats not something with which 
Nationwide or the Financial Ombudsman Service can become involved. But, after 
considering the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Nationwide has done anything 
wrong in its arrangement of the five-year fixed rate mortgage product. I will emphasise here 
that I am not accusing Mr I of having acted deceptively towards Mrs I. That is an accusation 
that has been made against him solely by Mrs I, and is uncorroborated by the evidence in 
Nationwides records. 
It is, of course, an option open to Mr and Mrs I to switch to a new mortgage product if they 
want to do so. That will, of course, be subject to any early repayment charge on their current 
five-year product.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I and Mr I to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman