DRN-3155986
The complaint
Miss S complains that BUPA Insurance Limited paid a consultation fee under her 
private medical insurance policy. Shes also unhappy that BUPA refused to allow her to 
pay back claims already made, and that it turned down her claim to see a dietician.
What happened
Miss S received authorisation from BUPA to see a specialist (Dr P). After the consultation 
had taken place, Miss S advised BUPA that she didnt want it to pay the claim as she 
didnt want it to impact her premiums at renewal. Miss S was unhappy to learn that BUPA 
did then pay the claim.
Miss S was also unhappy that BUPA wouldnt pay for her to see a consultant, and then 
allow her to pay this back (shes referred to this as recoupment).
Later, Miss S wanted to make a claim to see a dietician, but BUPA turned this down. 
Unhappy with the above, Miss S brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Miss S hadnt 
been disadvantaged by BUPAs error in paying the claim. She also thought BUPA had 
been entitled to turn down Miss Ss dietician claim.
I issued a provisional decision on 27 October 2021. Heres what I said:
BUPAs payment of Dr Ps invoice
The policy says:
If, for any reason, you wish to withdraw your claim for the costs of treatment you have 
received, you should call the helpline to tell us as soon as possible. You will be unable to 
withdraw your claim if we have already paid your claim. If you do withdraw your claim you 
will be responsible for paying the costs of that treatment.
Ive listened to a call that took place on 7 August 2019. During that call, Miss S explained 
to BUPA that shed decided to pay for the consultation herself, and that she didnt want 
BUPA to pay for it. BUPAs adviser said she was going to monitor Miss Ss policy to 
make sure the claim wasnt paid. However, when the invoice was received, BUPA paid 
the claim (which BUPA says was for £230).
I think its apparent that BUPA was at fault here. The claim hadnt been paid when Miss 
S called BUPA, and so under the policy terms, Miss S was entitled to withdraw her 
claim. I understand Miss S had told Dr P that she intended to self-pay, so its unfortunate 
that he sent his invoice to BUPA. Though BUPA had reassured Miss S that it would 
make sure the claim wasnt paid, yet this still happened.
The reason Miss S wanted to pay the claim herself, was because she thought her 
premiums would increase at renewal if BUPA paid the claim. However, BUPA has 
confirmed that because Miss S had made other claims in that same policy year, her no 
claims discount (NCD) wouldve still been reduced by the same amount, regardless of 
whether or not BUPA had paid Dr Ps invoice. In other words, her renewal price wasnt 
impacted by BUPAs error.
Im therefore satisfied that Miss S hasnt experienced a financial loss as a result of 
BUPAs error. In fact, shes £230 financially better off than she wouldve been if shed 
paid the claim herself. For that reason, I dont intend to require BUPA to pay additional 
compensation to Miss S for any inconvenience caused by its error.
Recoupment
Miss S is also unhappy that BUPA wouldnt cover her for treatment, and then allow her to 
pay this back. Shes provided an email from BUPA dated 13 June 2019 which says it had 
advised Miss S that it may be possible to change a claim to self-pay, even if it had previously 
been paid for by BUPA. And that BUPA would need to contact the provider and advise them 
that Miss S would be paying for the treatment herself. BUPA said the provider would need to 
agree to the change.
My ombudsman colleague issued a final decision in February 2021 in relation to a 
separate complaint made by Miss S against BUPA. In that decision, my colleague 
acknowledged that BUPA had wrongly advised Miss S in May 2019 that she could repay 
BUPA for a claim that had been paid. And that BUPA had corrected that error in July 
2019.
I would assume the above email of 13 June 2019 followed the May 2019 call. In terms of 
the email itself, I dont think the content wouldve led Miss S to believe that BUPA would 
fund treatment and then allow Miss S to repay this  the email instead seems to refer to 
the change in funding of an ongoing claim.
However, its not in dispute that BUPA did give Miss S wrong advice about this the 
month before. But like my ombudsman colleague, I havent seen any evidence that 
Miss S was financially disadvantaged by this error. My colleague already made a 
finding about the compensation BUPA offered in respect of that error, and so I wont be 
commenting further on that.
Miss S has told this service she wanted to see what BUPA later said about recoupment, 
and so she asked if it would do this. Shes sent this service an email dated 2 December 
2019 from BUPA. This said the only assistance I can provide as mentioned in my 
previous emails regarding having the claims removed from your policy so that you can 
self-fund and have your renewal recalculated.
Miss S says that BUPA did later say that she could repay it for some claims that it had 
paid. She says this happened too late in the policy year and she no longer had the 
money by that point.
We asked BUPA about this, and it said that if an individual manager used their discretion 
to allow Miss S to repay it for claims paid, then that was up to that manager. However, it 
says the policy doesnt allow it to do so.
I havent seen the correspondence leading up to the email of 2 December 2019 that 
Miss S has provided, and so I dont know what was agreed or why that was. However, I 
agree with BUPA that the policy terms dont allow for recoupment to take place, so I dont 
think it did anything wrong by previously advising Miss S of that.Dietician claim
Miss S contacted BUPA to see if it would cover a claim for her to see a dietician. She 
explained that shed experienced symptoms, including weight loss. She thought she might 
have food allergies or food sensitivities. Miss S said she was going to see a consultant 
later that week and wanted to know, if her consultant required her to see a dietician, 
whether BUPA would then cover this. BUPA said it would only cover dietician services for 
certain diagnosed conditions. It wouldnt disclose those conditions, as it said this 
information was for its internal guidance only.
BUPA later told Miss S that it doesnt cover dietician services if a member wishes to use 
this as a diagnostic tool.
In BUPAs correspondence with this service, it said that Miss S hadnt received a 
diagnosis. And that it may pay for a member to see a dietician if the sessions are aimed 
at treating an acute condition, but weight loss is a symptom and Miss S hadnt been 
diagnosed with a condition.
Ive looked carefully at the policy. This says that BUPA will pay therapists (which includes 
a dietician) for treatment when the member is referred for the treatment by their GP, 
consultant or BUPAs Direct Access service.
Treatment is defined in the policy as surgical or medical services (including 
diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or 
injury.
It therefore seems to me that if Miss Ss consultant had referred her to a dietician 
for diagnostic purposes, then this wouldve been covered by the policy.
BUPAs Insurance Product Information Document says that it doesnt cover treatment of 
or relating to allergies or allergic disorders. However, the policy terms only exclude 
treatment to de-sensitise or neutralise any allergic condition or disorder. It doesnt 
exclude the diagnosis of an allergy.
Id therefore like BUPA, in its response to this provisional decision, to explain why it 
thinks a referral to a dietician wouldnt be covered by the policy for diagnostic reasons.
Miss S says she had no intention of using BUPA to see a dietician, and that she only 
called BUPA to check. She explains that she did go and see a dietician, and paid for the 
appointment herself, though I dont know if she was referred there by her consultant.
If Miss S didnt intend to make a claim, it seems she hasnt been financially 
disadvantaged (nor inconvenienced) by the matter. However, if thats not correct and 
Miss S thinks she wouldve made a claim if shed known she was able to do so, she 
should confirm this in her response to this provisional decision. Depending on BUPAs 
response, I may then require BUPA to reimburse Miss S for the cost of this appointment 
(so long as Miss S did receive a referral from her consultant). Though if that means that 
Miss Ss NCD wouldve been impacted and renewal price increased, then BUPA would 
be able to take that into account.
I asked both parties to provide me with their further comments before I reached a final 
decision. 
BUPA responded to say that dietician services can be used as a diagnostic tool to determine whether acute symptoms are due to an allergy or intolerance. BUPA says that 
as Miss S knew she had a food allergy, but didnt know which food group she was 
allergic to, the dietician service wouldve been covered to establish this. It therefore 
confirmed that if Miss S were referred to a dietician by her consultant, and the 
appointment was to do with testing which of the food types/groups she was allergic to, 
this would be covered. 
BUPA also said that if it were to process the claim retrospectively, this would impact 
Miss Ss NCD, meaning that the premiums shes paying are likely to increase as a result.
Miss S responded but didnt say whether she wouldve made a claim under the policy for 
her dieticians appointment, if shed known that she was able to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA now accepts that dietician services can be used for diagnostic reasons. Its therefore 
apparent that BUPA gave Miss S wrong advice about this previously. 
Miss S went to see a dietician and paid for this appointment herself. But Miss S previously 
told this service that she didnt intend to make a claim for that appointment, and she hasnt 
disputed this in her response to my provisional decision. I therefore dont know whether 
Miss S has experienced a financial loss or has been inconvenienced by BUPAs wrong 
advice. I therefore wont be awarding redress for this. 
However, if Miss S decides she would like to make a backdated claim for the appointment, 
she should contact BUPA about this directly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman