DRN-4520289
The complaint
Miss M complains about the service Santander UK Plc provided when she tried to change 
her bank account. She wants compensation for the trouble and upset this caused her.
What happened
On 8 September 2022, Miss M applied to open an account with Santander online. The bank 
sent Miss M a welcome pack, bank card and PIN in preparation for her to use the account. 
However, following Miss Ms application Santander completed further checks. And stopped 
the switch process from her existing bank. This meant Miss M had to spend time on the 
phone manually setting up her direct debits and speaking to her employer to provide them 
with details of the Santander account.
Following this Miss M visited a Santander branch to deposit some money. During this visit 
Santander told her that she didnt have an account with the bank. So, Miss M had to spend 
time reverting her direct debits back to her existing bank. Miss M says Santander didnt let 
her know it had decided to close her account. And she found out after shed arranged to 
transfer money from her existing account across to Santander.
Miss M complained to Santander and was told that shed receive a call back. However, 
Santander didnt ring her. Instead, on 11 September 2022, it sent Miss M a final response 
letter explaining that as a result of checks Santander decided it wasnt able to offer Miss M 
an account. It apologised for any inconvenience that this had caused Miss M and told her to 
speak to her existing bank if she needed to find out more information.
Miss M wasnt happy with this response and brought her complaint to our service. She said 
Santander provided her with poor service and should have at least let her know it had 
decided not to offer her an account. She said because the bank didnt let her know she 
wasted time and effort setting up direct debits and then had to do it all over again. So, she 
wants compensation. 
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ms complaint. She said all applications for 
accounts are subject to further checks and that Santander hadnt done anything wrong when 
it decided not to offer Miss M a bank account. And it didnt have to provide Miss M with an 
explanation about why it didnt want her as a customer. The investigator also said that 
Miss M found out within a couple of days that Santander werent going to open an account 
when she visited a branch and received the banks final response letter. So, she didnt think 
there was a significant delay, and that Miss M was due any compensation.  
Miss M disagreed. She said she understands that Santander can close an account without 
providing any reasons. But she is unhappy that Santander didnt let her know. This meant 
she wasted hours setting up direct debts and then moving them all back to her existing bank. 
She says this was time consuming and frustrating. So, she wants compensation for the 
trouble and upset this caused her.
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. After reviewing 
everything I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
Firstly, banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with someone if they dont consider it appropriate to do so. Thats because it has 
the commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt decline to open an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or 
unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly. 
Santander has explained that it is a normal part of its process to carry out further checks 
after an account has been opened, which included looking at information recorded at credit 
and fraud prevention agencies. I havent seen anything to suggest that Santander treated 
Miss Ms application differently. Following completion of these checks Santander decided it 
wasnt able to offer Miss M an account. Santander is entitled to do this, and it seems Miss M 
accepts this too, so whilst I can appreciate Miss M was no doubt disappointed, I dont think 
Santander acted unfairly when it decided it didnt want to offer Miss M an account. 
Santander also isnt obliged to explain to Miss M why it didnt want to offer her any account. 
So, its not done anything wrong by not providing her with this information.
The crux of Miss Ms complaint is that Santander didnt tell her it wasnt going to accept her 
as customer. And she only found out after she complained. Santander says Miss Ms 
account was never fully functional  as the account switch was stopped by her existing bank. 
It says it let Miss M know it wasnt able to offer her an account when it wrote to her on 11 
September 2022 addressing her complaint, which was three days after Miss M had applied 
to open an account with them.
  
Miss M says after she received her new bank card from Santander, she spent a lot of time 
rearranging all her direct debits to come out of, what she believed, to be her newly opened 
Santander account. And had arranged for £12,000 to be transferred to her old account to the 
new Santander account. She said she only found out that there was a problem when she 
went into a branch and was told there wasnt an account set up for her. She then had to 
spend time moving everything back to her old account. And also had to wait for the £12,000 
to bounce back to her existing account. So, she says she was put to a lot of trouble that 
could have been avoided if Santander had simply told her it wasnt going to go ahead with 
her account application.
I can appreciate finding out that the account application was unsuccessful would have been 
upsetting for Miss M  it cant be pleasant being told you are not wanted as a customer. Miss 
M had also spent time arranging and then rearranging her financial obligations including her 
direct debits and telling her employer where to pay her wages. And had to wait for her 
£12,000 to be sent back to her existing account. So, Im satisfied that Miss M was put to 
some trouble and upset. 
Whilst I accept that Miss Ms application was subject to further checks by the bank, which is 
its standard process, I think it would have been helpful if Santander had let Miss M know it 
wasnt able to offer her an account sooner than it did. I can see that Santander took this 
decision on 9 September 2022 but didnt tell Miss M until 11 September 2022, and this 
appears to be only once Miss M had raised a complaint. Its not clear to me why Santander 
didnt let Miss M know earlier than it did or why it sent Miss M a bank card when it still had 
outstanding checks to complete, which given Miss M then spent time arranging her finances 
no doubt gave her the impression that everything was fine with her application  when it 
wasnt. So, I think Santanders communication could have been better in this particular case.Based on the evidence Ive seen so far and having considered the impact Santanders poor 
communication had on Miss M, I am currently minded to say that Santander should pay 
Miss M £50 compensation for the overall trouble and upset this matter has caused her.  
Neither party accepted my provisional decision. In response Miss M raised a number of 
points. In summary she said:
£50 compensation isnt enough to cover the calls costs she made to change her 
direct debits and she thinks £100 is fairer
She had to make an unnecessary eighty-mile round trip to deposit cash at a branch, 
so the amount of compensation offered doesnt cover her travel costs and parking 
fees
Santander also disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary it said:
The bank would told Miss M about the closure of the account and would have sent 
her a letter informing her. However, it cant provide a copy of this letter and it accepts 
Miss M may have received the letter after Miss M noticed that the account switching 
process wasnt working due to delivery timescales 
Miss M would have been aware why her account had been closed with her existing 
bank and didnt inform Santander about the reasons
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Santander and Miss M has raised a number of 
concerns, which Ill now address below.
Santander has said that it did let Miss M know it wasnt going to be able to offer her an 
account. It says it would have sent Miss M a letter, albeit it accepts that this may have 
arrived after Miss M found out her account wasnt going to be opened. So, it says it did tell 
Miss M it couldnt offer her an account.
Whilst I accept that Santander would have sent Miss M a letter, I still think it would have 
been helpful if Santander had let Miss M know it wasnt able to offer her an account sooner 
than it did. I can see that Santander took this decision on 9 September 2022 but didnt tell 
Miss M until 11 September 2022, and this appears to be only once Miss M had raised a 
complaint  after shed moved her direct debits. Based on Santanders response to my 
provisional decision it seems Santander also accepts it sent Mr M a letter later than it should 
have. So, when I weigh everything up, I think Santanders communication could have been 
better in this particular case.
In response to the provisional decision, Miss M says she wants more compensation. And 
that £50 doesnt adequately reflect the trouble, upset and financial losses she incurred as a 
result of Santander not telling her soon enough that it wasnt able to offer her an account 
sooner than it did.
There isnt a set formula that we use to calculate awards for particular mistakes or poor 
service. Its my role to consider what impact Santanders actions have had on Miss M and decide, within guidelines set by our service, whether compensation would be appropriate in 
the circumstances. 
Ive considered what Miss M has said about her personal situation and the impact 
Santanders poor communication had on her. I dont doubt Santander caused Miss M trouble 
and upset. So, Im satisfied that compensation is appropriate for this. However, Im satisfied 
that £50, is fair and proportionate to the trouble and upset Miss M was caused. In reaching 
this conclusion, Ive kept in mind that Miss M hasnt provided any evidence to support these 
losses (call costs, parking fees). Given this and considering the overall circumstances of this 
complaint, Im not persuaded to award Miss M more compensation. 
In summary, I appreciate that Miss M will be disappointed by my decision, and I appreciate 
that Miss M was upset and inconvenienced by Santanders actions, but I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this complaint should be partly 
upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are repeated above and 
form part of this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint. To put 
things right Santander UK Plc should:
Pay Miss M £50 compensation for the trouble and upset its poor communication 
caused her in this matter
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman