DRN-4389435
The complaint
Mrs and Mr C are unhappy that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined their claim for 
accidental damage under a wear and tear exclusion.
They jointly held buildings and contents insurance, underwritten by Admiral. For ease of 
reading, Ill refer mainly to Mrs C throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs C made a claim under her policy after noticing a leak in her living room and 
conservatory. Admiral appointed a leak detection contractor who found water was getting 
into her home through an exterior crack and running into the chimney. Mrs C said the 
contractor told her the crack mightve been caused when her extension was built, so she 
thought Admiral should consider her claim under accidental damage.
Admiral declined the claim. It said the crack was caused by wear and tear. Mrs C disagreed 
and said the leak detection report supported her claim that the crack was accidental 
damage.
Admiral didnt identify any documented evidence that its contractor had said the damage 
was accidental. Even so, Admiral said the policy didnt provide cover for anything which 
mightve happened such a long time ago, and before the policy started. 
But Mrs C said the policy didnt say anything about undetected accidental damage and it 
couldve happened gradually over years. Mrs C remained unhappy with Admirals decision, 
so she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator thought Admiral had fairly relied on the policy terms and conditions to 
decline Mrs Cs claim. He said there was no cover for wear and tear, and Admiral had 
reasonably stated that accidental damage from the time the extension was built was 
excluded. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs C didnt agree with our investigators view. After raising further questions, Mrs C asked 
for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Accidental damage
Mrs C said the leak detection contractor told her the damage mightve been caused when 
her extension was built. But Admiral declined the claim under the policy exclusion for wear 
and tear. 
The policy defines accidental damage as, Sudden, unexpected and visible loss or damage 
which has not been caused deliberately.
For me to uphold the complaint, Id need to see that Mrs C has shown that, more likely than 
not, the damage was caused by a specific, identifiable event, and that Admiral unfairly 
declined the claim.
Admiral said theres no evidence of its contractor saying the damage was caused when the 
extension was built. But I have no reason to doubt Mrs Cs statement that its contractor said 
it couldve been the reason for the crack. However, if the crack was accidental damage 
caused when the extension was built around 20 years before, its more likely than not that 
water ingress wouldve been evident much sooner. 
Admiral pointed out that the policy wasn't in place 20 years before. So even if the damage 
was accidental during the extension build, Admiral wouldnt be responsible for any repairs.
Mrs C said the crack didnt necessarily happen at the time of the build, but it happened 
gradually because of the build. Admiral said if that was the cause, then it would be the result 
of poor workmanship or gradual damage, both of which are excluded under the policy. I think 
thats a fair and reasonable response.
Overall, Im satisfied that Admiral fairly declined Mrs Cs claim for accidental damage based 
on the evidence available and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Wear and tear
To begin with, Admiral declined the claim stating that the damage was due to wear and tear. 
Mrs C didnt agree that the horizontal crack was consistent with wear and tear.
Looking at the evidence, I see Admiral provided an expert opinion on the cause of the 
damage. Mrs C hasnt provided any documented expert evidence to contradict that opinion. 
Nor has she provided anything to show how or when the damage happened. So, I think 
Admiral declined the claim fairly based on the evidence available to it.
I note Admiral said it would review the matter again if Mrs C provided evidence to support 
her claim. I think thats a fair offer.
Overall, Im satisfied that Admiral reached a fair conclusion that the event was not an insured 
peril covered by Mrs Cs policy. Admirals reasons for declining the claim were in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. I havent seen any evidence to indicate that Admiral treated 
Mrs C unfairly, or that its decision was unreasonable. Therefore, I wont be asking Admiral to 
do any more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. 
Im not asking Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to do any more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman