DRN-3416745
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr K complain that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly turned down a claim for damage to an 
underground pipe under their home insurance policy.
All references to QIC include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. The 
facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
Mrs B and Mr Ks policy covers, the costs of repairing accidental damage to the 
underground pipes, tanks, cables and services (including their inspection covers) that 
reach from the buildings to the public supply and septic tanks, which you are legally 
responsible for.
So, there are two parts to this definition which need to be met for the claim to 
succeed; evidence of accidental damage, and to a pipe Mrs B and Mr K are legally 
responsible for. 
Mrs B and Mr K have provided evidence from the water company that the cause of 
damage to the pipe was accidental. But the evidence also shows the pipe was owned 
by the water company; they ultimately dealt with and repaired the problem. So, even 
if the damage was caused in a way which met the definition of accidental damage, 
Im satisfied QIC has no insurable interest in the pipe (or any associated repair costs) 
under the policy in any event. So, I agree with QICs position in its final response 
letter  where it mentions Mrs B and Mr K arent legally responsible for the pipe, so a 
claim cannot be considered under this section of the policy.
Ive next considered whether the costs QIC did reimburse were fair and reasonable. 
Strictly speaking, I cannot see any terms in the policy which would require QIC to pay 
anything towards the claim. It seems it has gone beyond the terms of the policy in 
settling some alternative accommodation and food allowance costs for Mrs B and   
Mr K which dont appear to have been pre-authorised. Therefore, I can only conclude 
this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs B and Mr K say that QIC had an opportunity to appoint a loss adjuster to validate 
the repairs to their property but didnt do so. However, I can see that QIC appointed 
an in-house surveying team to validate the costs and agreed to reimburse an invoice 
of £400 for reinstatement works. Given the relatively small amount claimed at this 
stage, I think it was reasonable for QIC to validate this in-house rather than appoint a 
loss adjuster.
Mrs B and Mr K then submitted a larger invoice for property repairs which QIC turned 
down. It said it hadnt been given the opportunity to validate or authorise the repair 
costs, or to confirm all the repairs were necessary and directly related to the incident.
Whilst I accept the policy does cover Mrs B and Mr K for any loss or damage caused 
by an escape of water, theres no evidence to persuade me that theyd made QIC 
aware of the scope of the damage, or that they intended to proceed with a relatively 
expensive repair. Mrs B and Mr Ks policy also states under the Claims procedure 
and conditions section, You may carry out any temporary repairs that are 
necessary to reduce any further loss or damage, but do not carry out any permanent 
repairs without first getting our permission in writing.
I dont find this term unusual for policies of this type, and I cannot see this condition 
was met. So it follows that I find QICs decision to turn down these repair costs 
reasonable in the circumstances.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about QIC Europe Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman