DRN-1541037
The complaint
Mr T complains that when he closed his savings account with FCE Bank Plc, it didn't give 
him the breakdown of interest payments he'd asked for.
What happened
Mr T had a fixed term savings account with FCE Bank. Shortly before it was due to mature, 
he rang the bank to ask whether he'd get a closing statement showing all the interest 
payments he'd received - and how much he'd got overall. The bank told him he would.
When Mr T's account matured, he got his closing statement. But it only showed the interest 
he'd received in the previous two months. Mr T complained. 
FCE Bank replied to apologise for giving Mr T the wrong information about what his closing 
statement would show. It sent him a full breakdown of the interest payments he'd been 
credited, and offered him £25 to say sorry.
Mr T wasn't happy with FCE Bank's offer and said he thought the inconvenience he'd been 
put to warranted a higher compensation payment.
One of our investigators looked into things. She agreed FCE Bank had given Mr T some 
misleading information, but noted this hadn't impacted him financially and said FCE Bank 
had sent Mr T what he'd asked for as soon as he complained. She thought its offer of £25 
was fair in the circumstances.
Mr T didn't agree, and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isn't in dispute that FCE Bank told Mr T it'd send him a full interest breakdown, then didn't. 
I'm pleased to see it's apologised for that and offered to put things right for Mr T.
While Mr T had to wait longer than he ought to have done to get the information he'd asked 
for, I've taken into account that his monthly statements - and how much interest he'd been 
paid each month - were available for him to look at online on FCE Bank's website. And once 
he complained FCE Bank quickly acknowledged its mistake and arranged for a paper 
statement showing all his payments to be sent out promptly.
Overall I agree FCE Bank's mistake caused Mr T some inconvenience. But taking everything 
into account I'm satisfied that its efforts to put things right were reasonable. And so I don't 
think it needs to pay Mr T anything further.My final decision
For the reasons I've given I don't uphold this complaint, because the £25 FCE Bank Plc paid 
Mr T was fair compensation for what happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman