DRN-3708890
The complaint
Mr W has complained Marks & Spencer Financial Services plc placed a default on his credit 
record later than they should.
What happened
In early 2018 Mr W took out a debit management plan to help him with his finances. One of 
his financial commitments was a credit card with Marks & Spencer. Hed not been in touch 
with them about these issues and hadnt made the full minimum payments required in 
February and March.
Mr W through his debt management provider made reduced monthly payments. These were 
lower than the minimum payment would have been. Marks & Spencer sent a notice of their 
intention to default Mr W in October 2018. The default was applied to Mr Ws record in 
March 2019.
Mr Ws other creditors all applied defaults much earlier and Mr W wants this default moved 
to reflect him being in financial difficulties earlier.
Marks & Spencer explained theyd applied the default correctly after Mr W was in arrears for 
six months worth of minimum repayments due on the account.
Still unhappy, Mr W brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator believed Mr W was in six months arrears at an earlier point and asked 
Marks & Spencer to amend Mr Ws credit record and pay him £75. Marks & Spencer asked 
an ombudsman to consider the complaint as they believed theyd operated within the 
required guidelines.
I completed a provisional decision on 25 August 2022. I explained why Id reached a 
different conclusion to our investigator.
Both Mr W and Marks & Spencer confirmed theyre received the provisional decision but 
provided no further comments.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain my thinking.
The issue at the heart of this complaint is clear. Mr W knows he didnt make the minimum 
repayment due on this account on 1 February 2018. He feels at least the default should 
apply by August 2018 which was six months after his inability to make this and subsequent 
minimum repayments. 
All parties accept that a default should be applied at least by the time somebody has fallen 
into six months arrears. This is in line with the Information Commissioners Offices 
principles. Ive reviewed what happened with this in mind.
Marks & Spencers initial submission suggested theyd delayed applying the default to 
Mr Ws account. I asked them for further information. They confirmed this hadnt been the 
case.
Marks & Spencer supplied detailed information which showed how they calculated that Mr W 
was only in six months arrears when the default was applied on 7 March 2019. 
After Mr Ws debt management plan started, payments were being made to Marks & 
Spencer. These were over £70 and equated to about 80% of the monthly payment owing on 
the account. This means that it took more than a year for six months worth of arrears to 
build up. Im satisfied Marks & Spencer has demonstrated they applied the default correctly.
I appreciate the difficulty this may cause Mr W in ensuring his credit record is in as good a 
position as possible, but I wont be asking Marks & Spencer to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ws complaint against Marks 
& Spencer Financial Services plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman