DRN-1631569
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs G says Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold her the 
PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2000 Mrs G took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for a credit card online. 
The policy provided protection for Mrs Gs card payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy would pay out a monthly benefit 
of 10% of what Mrs G owed on the card and it would do so for up to 12 months per claim. Its 
basic cost was 59 pence for every £100 Mrs G owed on the card - and the payments did 
attract interest.
At the time of the sale Mrs G was employed and she said she was entitled to sick pay of 13 
weeks' full pay followed by six weeks' half pay. She said she had an accident, sickness and 
unemployment policy, which paid out a monthly benefit of just under £280. She said she had 
no other means she couldve used to make her repayments, and she was in good health at 
the time.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought it 
likely Mrs G chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or 
inappropriate for her. But they said the offer Canada Square made in relation to high 
commission and profit share was fair in the circumstances.
Because Mrs G disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs Gs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs G's complaint. My reasons are set out 
below.
 
did Mrs G have a choice about PPI? I think Canada Square made it clear that Mrs G didn't have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
This was a sale by Internet application. Canada Square has provided us with a screenshot 
from the PPI page of the credit card application, which it says is what Mrs G would've seen 
when she made her application.
Looking at this I can see a customer was presented with two radio button options - one of 
which they had to select to move onto the next part of the application. The two options were 
'Yes' to take out PPI or 'No' to decline it. According to Canada Square's records of what Mrs 
G input in her application, she selected the 'Yes' option.
On the basis that the screenshot is one we've seen before and I've not seen enough to 
persuade me that Mrs G saw something very different when she made her application, I 
think she chose to take out PPI by selecting the appropriate option during the application 
process.
the information  
Because this was a sale by Internet, there was no interaction with a member of Canada 
Square staff. I'm satisfied therefore that Canada Square didn't recommend PPI to Mrs G, so 
it didn't have to ensure it was right or suitable for her. But it did have to give her enough 
clear and timely information, so she could make an informed decision about it.
While the PPI screen of the online application gave a broad description of the policy, it's not 
clear from the evidence available that Canada Square did all that it should fairly and 
reasonably have done when providing information about the PPI. So I accept it's possible 
the information Mrs G got wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. 
But as I found above, I think Mrs G chose to take the policy out - so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and she appears to have a need for cover 
- so it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs G off 
taking out the cover. 
I can see that Mrs G has said she already had an insurance policy of a similar nature 
providing her a monthly benefit of around £280. So this together with her sick pay meant the 
PPI wasn't needed.
It's not entirely clear what Mrs G's existing insurance policy was protecting - for example 
whether it covered a mortgage payment or another credit type product. But in any event I've 
already said that Mrs G chose to take the policy out, so she was clearly interested in 
this type of insurance cover. And while the information Canada Square gave her might not 
have been as clear as it could've been, in my view there was enough to give her a broad 
understanding of the nature of the cover - that is protection for her card payments in the 
event of accident, sickness or unemployment. So I think she understood this much.
 
The cost information might also not have been clear as it should've been. But had things 
been clearer, in weighing up the cost and benefit proposition on offer - the policy had the potential to clear the outstanding card balance in full - I think Mrs G in her particular 
circumstances would've still decided to go ahead and take the policy out.
conclusion 
In light of my findings above, this means Canada Square doesn't have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Canada Square got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because Canada 
Square didn't tell Mrs G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Canada Square Operations Limited does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman