DRN-2316888
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) incorrectly declined her home 
insurance claim and failed to provide her with alternative accommodation.
What happened
Mrs S had home insurance with Fairmead. Her daughter and son both dealt with the 
complaint on her behalf but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mrs S (the policy holder) throughout 
my decision.
An electrical short-circuit melted and burned bitumen under Mrs Ss flooring, causing toxic 
smoke to be released into her home. She made a claim under her home insurance but 
Fairmead declined it because, at the time, the cause was unknown. Mrs S moved into her 
daughters home to escape the fumes.
Mrs S complained to Fairmead because she thought she was covered for the claim, and for 
alternative accommodation while her home was uninhabitable. Fairmead declined her claim 
for a second time. After complaining further, Fairmead agreed her claim was covered and 
shouldve been accepted from the start.
Fairmead said it was too late to provide alternative accommodation and, as Mrs S was living 
with her daughter, it offered disturbance allowance instead. The offer was based on the 
standard industry rate of £10 per adult per day which Mrs S accepted. However, she 
remained of the view that Fairmead shouldve provided alternative accommodation so she 
wouldnt have needed to sleep on her daughters sofa. Fairmead apologised and offered 
£350 compensation for the distress Mrs S experienced, but she didnt think it was enough.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ss complaint. He thought that it was reasonable for Fairmead to 
provide the disturbance allowance instead of alternative accommodation given that Mrs S 
was already staying with her daughter when it eventually accepted the claim. But he didnt 
think the compensation it offered for the distress and inconvenience caused was enough. 
Our investigator suggested an additional £150 compensation was warranted in the 
circumstances.
Mrs S didnt agree. She thought that Fairmead should provide her with a payment equivalent 
to what it wouldve cost if it had provided her with alternative accommodation. She also 
thought that her son and daughter were due compensation for the effort they had made in 
bringing her complaint.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
 
  
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ss complaint for the same reasons as our investigator, but I 
havent increased the amount of compensation. Ill explain why.
The facts of the matter arent disputed here. The issues are whether Fairmeads offer of 
£350 compensation is enough, and whether it should pay what it wouldve cost for 
alternative accommodation (AA) as well as disturbance allowance (DA).
To put this complaint into context, Mrs S is an elderly policyholder and she was unable to 
live at home for eight weeks because of the toxic fumes. During that time she stayed at her 
daughters home and slept on the sofa/camp bed. Mrs S says she felt that she was 
inconveniencing her family and AA wouldve made things easier and more comfortable all 
round. The parties are aware of the facts of this complaint, and there is no dispute that 
Fairmead didnt handle the claim as well as it couldve done. So, Ill focus on why Ive 
reached my decision and what Fairmead needs to do to put things right.
Fairmead paid Mrs S a little under £600 DA after it incorrectly declined her claim. DA is to 
cover costs above and beyond a policyholders usual day to day living costs, for example, 
laundry costs or additional food bills while a kitchen is being repaired, and the insurer is 
entitled to ask for receipts. The payment isnt intended to compensate for inconvenience 
while work is being carried out. Mrs Ss policy doesnt provide for DA, and I expect her 
additional costs while staying with her daughter wouldve been minimal, so I think it was 
helpful that Fairmead made the payment to her and without requiring evidence of additional 
costs.
Mrs Ss policy did provide for AA but. because Fairmead declined her claim, it didnt offer 
any accommodation. Fortunately, Mrs S was able to stay with her daughter, but I can see 
that she didnt feel comfortable with the arrangement. And having somewhere to stay doesnt 
change the fact that Fairmead failed to provide her with the option of AA under her policy. I 
can understand why Mrs S thinks Fairmead should now pay her what it wouldve cost to 
provide AA as its a cost that Fairmead shouldve incurred. But I dont agree. Thats the 
policy doesnt offer a cash alternative if a policyholder chooses not to accept AA. The option 
is there to ensure that the policyholder has somewhere to live  not to benefit from a 
payment  and in this case, Mrs S did have somewhere to stay, albeit on a camp bed. So, if 
Mrs S had chosen to stay with family rather than accept AA, Fairmead still wouldnt have 
paid anything more than DA.
That said, Ive thought about the inconvenience to Mrs S and her family. Fairmead has 
already paid £350 in recognition of its error and our investigator thought a further £150 was 
warranted. While I think its likely that AA for eight weeks wouldve cost more, I cant see that 
Mrs S has incurred a financial loss. So, I think the proposed sum of £500 for the 
inconvenience and by way of apology for the loss of choice caused when Fairmead 
incorrectly declined the claim is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Finally, I understand that Mrs Ss daughter and son requested compensation for their 
professional time spent dealing with Mrs Ss claim. The policy is a contract between Mrs S 
and Fairmead, so its responsibility is directly to her. While Mrs Ss representatives may have 
dealt with the complaint, I dont think its fair or necessary for Fairmead to pay them for 
assisting their elderly mother with her claim. 
In summary, theres no dispute that Fairmead didnt handle Mrs Ss claim as well as it 
shouldve done. I think an additional payment of £150, bringing the total compensation to 
£500, in addition to the DA of a little under £600, adequately addresses the inconvenience 
caused. My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Fairmead 
Insurance Limited must:
pay Mrs S £150 compensation, in addition to the £350 it has already paid, in 
recognition of the inconvenience and upset caused by its failure to handle her claim 
properly.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman