DRN-2652452
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that National Savings and Investments didnt register her for telephone and 
online services for her account when she completed the relevant documentation and also for 
poor customer service.
What happened
As National Savings and Investments (NS&I) are moving to a system where payments made 
by them will need to be paid into a bank account, Mrs Y tried to register for telephone service 
for her premium bonds. She wanted to inform NS&I of her bank account details so prizes 
she won from premium bonds could be paid direct to her account. 
Mrs Y completed the paper based form to register her premium bonds for online/telephone 
services in July 2020. As NS&I didnt hold a copy of her signature on file, they wrote to her 
on 28 August 2020 to ask her to sign a form and have the form witnessed so they could 
match the signatures from both forms. Mrs Y completed NS&Is request and sent the 
witnessed signature back to them. 
Mrs Y received a prize from a winning premium bond number. The letter attached to the 
prize urged Mrs Y to contact NS&I so she could have prizes paid into her current account so 
she rang NS&I on 16 October 2020 to inform them of the bank account details.
When Mrs Y spoke to NS&I they informed her that they were unable to take bank details 
from her over the phone as the signature on the registration form didnt match the signature 
on the witness form.
Mrs Y made a complaint. She said she had completed these forms months ago and NS&I 
were just telling her now that there was a problem. She felt that NS&I decided the signatures 
didnt match and they decided to do nothing about it. The call handler told Mrs Y that theyd 
only came to that outcome two days prior to this call and thats why she hadnt received 
correspondence about this yet. Mrs Y inferred that NS&I thought she was lying about being 
the person who signed both forms which frustrated her.
NS&I didnt uphold Mrs Ys complaint. They explained that the signatures on the two forms 
differed and so they couldnt register Mrs Y for the online/telephone services because of 
security measures. Mrs Y wasnt satisfied with the outcome so brought the complaint to our 
service. She told our investigator that she had medical conditions that may affect her 
signature.
Our investigator also didnt uphold Mrs Ys complaint. The investigator acknowledged Mrs Y 
is now registered for online/telephone access for her account. The investigator added that 
the signatures originally didnt match. NS&I need to ensure the signatures match as changes 
could be made by an unauthorised person if NS&I didnt check that the signatures match. 
This could enable somebody else to change Mrs Ys personal details or withdraw her funds 
once the online/telephone access was granted so its important to ensure controls are in 
place to stop unauthorised people accessing Mrs Ys account. 
The investigator also listened to the call where Mrs Y thought the call handler was saying 
she was lying but found no evidence of this. Mrs Y asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint as she said the signature didnt match due to a medical condition and said NS&I 
called her a liar in a letter they sent her. Mrs Y also said she did her third signature slowly, 
carefully and clear but she doesnt think this is how she would normally sign for things. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Y is now registered for online/telephone servicing for her account. So what I need to do 
now is to assess whether NS&I were fair in how they handled the circumstances leading to 
Mrs Ys complaint. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs Y said regarding her medical condition. This is why she 
thinks the signatures didnt match. Ive asked NS&I if they were aware of her condition and 
they told me that Mrs Y hadnt made them aware of the condition. So, as NS&I werent 
aware of her condition, they wouldnt automatically make reasonable adjustments to ensure 
it was Mrs Y who had signed both forms. The outcome may have been different had they 
been made aware of Mrs Ys condition. But I dont think its fair to hold NS&I accountable for 
not being aware of this information.
Having looked at the signatures in question, I can understand why NS&I considered that 
they are different. As our investigator highlighted, if the wrong person accessed Mrs Ys 
account online then they could withdraw her money or change personal details so I think its 
fair that NS&I have controls in place to stop this happening. Although on this occasion it 
genuinely was Mrs Y who signed both forms I would expect NS&I to challenge the accuracy 
of the two signatures considering they werent aware of Mrs Ys medical condition.
Mrs Y has said that she felt that NS&I had inferred she was a liar over the phone and by 
letter. Ive asked NS&I for the recording of the call and a copy of the correspondence they 
sent to her. While I understand Mrs Y feels that NS&I are inferring she is lying, Ive listened 
to the call in full and Im satisfied there is no evidence of the call handler inferring she is 
lying.
NS&I dont have a copy of the correspondence they sent to Mrs Y asking her for the 
signature to be witnessed again which would have been helpful for me to see this. Mrs Y 
also hasnt got a copy of this letter. I asked NS&I why they didnt have a copy of this letter 
and they said as it is a generic letter it is not always scanned by the operator into our 
systems and a copy retained.
NS&I have sent us a template of the letter they say they wouldve sent. I asked them how 
this would be completed and if there was room to free type any information here. They said 
the signature letter has no free text. The operator would choose the appropriate wording 
from the listed paragraphs.  Ive looked at the template letter and Im satisfied that the letter 
is simply saying the signatures dont match. While Mrs Y thinks the letter is accusing her of 
lying about the signature, Im not persuaded that the template is saying she lied about 
signing both forms.
While I understand Mrs Ys frustration about the signatures not being accepted originally and 
she believes that NS&I were inferring she was lying, Ive seen no evidence to say that NS&I 
have done anything wrong here. So it follows I wont be asking NS&I to do anything further.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman