DRN-4055829
The complaint
Mrs L is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) declined her claim under 
her product insurance plan and failed to return her appliance.
What happened
Mrs L had a product insurance plan with D&G through her bank account which provided for 
repair or replacement. She claimed under the policy when her iron stopped working properly. 
D&G arranged for its repair team to look into the fault, but the parts needed were no longer 
available.
D&G asked Mrs L for proof of purchase. She sent a copy of the receipt, but D&G noted the 
price was different to that claimed. Mrs L said it was a mistake by the retailer incorrectly 
adding on delivery. She provided the second, corrected receipt.
For a number of reasons, D&G didnt think the receipt was genuine and it asked Mrs L for 
further information. But, because D&G wasn't satisfied with the evidence, it declined the 
claim and sent the iron back to Mrs L.
Mrs L complained that D&G unfairly declined the claim, didnt handle her calls well, delayed 
handling the claim and failed to return her iron.
D&G looked into her complaint and issued two final responses. In one response, D&G said 
the tracking evidence showed that the iron was delivered to Mrs Ls address. So, it didnt 
uphold this complaint. In response to the rest of the complaint, D&G said it declined the 
claim because the proof of purchase wasn't genuine, and the second proof of purchase was 
an amended version of the first. However, D&G accepted that Mrs Ls calls had dropped 
during contact, so it paid £20 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs L remained unhappy so she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. He said the evidence supported D&Gs 
reason for declining the claim, and its tracking information showed that the package was 
delivered to Mrs Ls address. Our investigator didnt identify any significant delays caused by 
D&G that couldve been avoided. Therefore, he didnt propose any further action.
Mrs L didnt agree. She said D&G hadnt provided any explanation about the evidence it 
relied on to decline the claim, or show that the iron was returned to her. Further, Mrs L said 
her bank statement and proof of purchase hadnt been taken into consideration, so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs L will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Claim
The first issue is about whether D&G declined the claim fairly.
Ive noted in the policy documents that D&G is entitled to ask Mrs L for proof of purchase 
and to decline the claim if it doesnt receive evidence. Although she provided the receipt, 
D&G didnt think it was genuine.
Ive looked carefully at the receipts provided directly to this service by both D&G and Mrs L. 
D&G said the receipt had been amended and I can see the changes it refers to. For 
example, the first copy showed the price as £10 more than both the second copy and the 
claimed amount. Mrs L explained that the retailer sent an amended copy after incorrectly 
including a delivery charge.
Although D&G hasnt mentioned this, I note theres a spelling mistake on the receipt. While 
that might be a genuine error on the retailers part, the spelling mistake is corrected on 
another copy of the receipt which Mrs L sent directly to this service. This tells me the 
receipts have been amended at some point. On checking the product reference number on 
the retailers website, Im not persuaded that it matches the item listed on the receipt.
Mrs L did provide me with a copy of her card statement which shows she bought something 
from the retailer to the value she was claiming. So, I have no reason to doubt she bought the 
iron. But Im satisfied that it was reasonable for D&G to decline the claim because it couldnt 
rely on the authenticity of the retailer receipt. 
Overall, Im satisfied that D&G reasonably declined Mrs Ls claim for the reason it gave and 
in line with the policy.
 
Delivery
Mrs L said D&G didnt return her iron after declining her claim.
Ive looked at the evidence D&G provided to show that the package was returned to Mrs L. 
Im aware Mrs L now has a copy of the tracking information and photograph of where the 
package was left.
Firstly, Im satisfied that the account notes, delivery company tracking records and 
photograph of the package outside Mrs Ls address show that D&G returned her iron. But 
Mrs L says it wasnt left in a safe place and she didnt receive it.
I realise its difficult to provide evidence that something hasnt been received. So, Ive taken 
into consideration what Mrs L said about not receiving it along with the evidence D&G 
provided to show that it sent the iron back.
On balance, Im persuaded that the evidence suggests its more likely than not that D&G 
returned the iron to Mrs L. I see no reason to ask D&G to do anything in respect of this 
matter.
 Claim Handling
Mrs L was unhappy with the number of calls she felt she needed to make to D&G, the delay 
handling her claim and the dropped calls. Shed like compensation for the time she spent on 
this matter and for the overall inconvenience.
D&G accepted that some calls were dropped, and it awarded Mrs L £20 by way of apology. 
However, it didnt agree that there were any significant or avoidable delays, and it didnt think 
it was responsible for the time Mrs L spent on her claim.
The evidence shows that the claim was declined a month after Mrs L raised it. During that 
time, D&G asked for proof of purchase and waited around a week for her response. The 
claim was also delayed because of the matter with the receipts and because D&G needed 
further information from Mrs L. Overall, I dont think the time taken to conclude the claim was 
unreasonable, and I cant fairly hold D&G responsible for the amount of time Mrs L spent on 
her claim.
Therefore, Im satisfied that D&G acknowledged the shortfalls regarding the dropped calls, 
but I dont find any further shortfalls that would warrant compensation.
In summary, the evidence shows that D&G fairly declined the claim in line with the policy 
because it couldnt rely on Mrs Ls receipts as proof of purchase. The evidence also shows 
that D&G sent the iron back to her and that the courier delivered it to Mrs Ls address. So, I 
see no reason to uphold Mrs Ls complaint or require D&G to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman