DRN-4467941
The complaint
Mr W complains about a dental plan with CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV.   
Mr W has also made a complaint about a claim he made against the plan. That complaint is 
being dealt with separately.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr W is a member of a group private dental insurance plan as a 
benefit of his employment. In May 2023, Mr W tried to arrange an appointment with a 
dentist participating in the plans Full Cover. 
The first practice he contacted said that it wasnt accepting new patients but that it had 
added Mr Ws details to its waiting list. Mr W says that the second practice he contacted 
didnt respond to his enquiries. He managed to secure an appointment with a third 
practice. In August 2023, Mr W told his previous dentist that hed taken out dental cover 
via his employer and that he was moving to another practice. 
Mr W complained to Cigna that he was attracted by its Full Cover service but couldnt 
secure an appointment with a participating dentist. He says that Cigna advertised a 
service that didnt exist. 
 
In September 2023, Mr W saw a dentist and subsequently made a claim against the 
plan. He wasnt happy with the treatment or service he received. Thats the subject of a 
separate complaint not dealt with here.  
In response to Mr Ws complaint, Cigna provided contact details for participating 
dentists, offered to cancel his membership and reimburse one months membership fee. 
It said that Full Cover is an additional feature at no extra cost and that it cant control 
whether participating dentists are taking new patients. Mr W wasnt satisfied with Cignas 
response, so he pursued his complaint. 
Mr W says that the cover Cigna offered was misleading. He says that hes been 
inconvenienced and had to delay dental treatment due to the difficulty he had in finding a  
dentist. Mr W wants compensation of around £100. He says that Cignas offer to cancel 
his membership and provide a refund isnt sufficient; he wants Cigna to provide the 
service it offered
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that Cigna was 
at fault. The investigator said that Cigna isnt responsible for the actions of any dentists. 
She said that Cigna offered to cancel Mr Ws membership of the plan. The investigator 
said that she was satisfied that there are participating dentists in the Full Cover service 
and that theres nothing in the plan that says Cigna guarantees that a particular dentist 
will accept new patients or reply to enquiries. 
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the Full Cover service is an 
inherent feature of the plan and if its not available, the plan has been mis-sold. There 
was further correspondence between the investigator and Mr W, but the investigator 
didnt change her view. Mr W asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it 
was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W is responsible for the costs he incurs in having dental treatment. However, if his 
treatment is eligible treatment, Cigna pays the costs that are covered under his benefits 
and in accordance with the terms of cover. The Full Cover feature is an additional feature 
of the plan and provides full reimbursement of the majority of eligible treatment costs 
Cigna has agreed with participating dentists. 
Cigna doesnt employ the participating dentists and isnt involved in the day to day 
management of dental practices, including management of enquiries from new patients 
and whether they are willing to take on new patients. 
The investigator contacted two of the dental practices Cigna gave Mr W the details of. 
Both said that they were taking on new patients and accepted Mr Ws plan. Whilst it took 
Mr W some time to arrange an appointment with a participating dentist he was able to get 
an appointment for September 2023. I appreciate thats not as early as he would have 
liked and that he wasnt satisfied with the treatment and service he received. But Cigna 
isnt responsible for any delay in Mr W securing an appointment with a dentist who accepts 
the plan. 
When Mr W complained to Cigna, it offered to cancel his membership and reimburse one 
months membership fee. I think that was fair and reasonable. I dont think that there are 
any grounds on which I can fairly direct Cigna to do any more. 
Cigna is obliged to provide information thats clear, fair and not misleading. In the 
circumstances here, that information is provided to Mr Ws employer. I dont think that the 
information Cigna provided was misleading. The membership guide includes the following: 
How can I find a Full Cover dentist? To find out if theres a Full Cover dentist near you 
visit [website address]. 
Theres nothing in the membership guide that promises that a participating dentist will 
agree to take new patients. The membership guide says that the number of participating 
dentists will continue to grow and that members should check the website for an up to date 
list of participating dentists in their area. 
The membership guide also says that Full Cover is an additional feature:
This is simply an additional feature. If your own dentist is not a Full Cover dentist you can 
continue to visit them and use your plan.
I appreciate that this has been very frustrating for Mr W but, based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think that Cigna is at fault here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman