DRN-3881799
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the service provided by abrdn Fund Managers Limited (abrdn) when 
it took longer than it shouldve done to deal with her request for the release of funds it held 
on her account after a planned share sale in June 2022. 
This complaint is brought on behalf of Mrs H by her representative. I am grateful to Mrs Hs 
representative for her assistance in bringing this complaint. But, to keep things simpler, Ill 
mostly refer to Mrs H as the complainant as this complaint is about Mrs Hs account.
To put things right, Mrs H (and her representative) would like more compensation than abrdn 
offered to pay.  
What happened
The background facts are not in dispute. Mrs Hs representative has set out in some detail 
what happened and why this has been such a frustrating process and abrdn agrees that it 
didnt provide a good enough service on this occasion, which meant Mrs H had to wait 
longer than she ought reasonably have had to wait to receive her sale proceeds. So, as 
abrdn has upheld Mrs Hs complaint, I will concentrate on the question of fair redress, which 
is the main concern now and the reason Mrs H has requested an ombudsman referral. 
Over the course of dealing with this matter, abrdn paid has £150 compensation and offered 
to pay Mrs H a further £100 in settlement of her complaint. 
When our investigator looked into what happened, he felt that abrdns offer of £250 
compensation in total was fair and reasonable. He didnt think he could fairly or reasonably 
ask abrdn to pay Mrs H more and he couldnt ask abrdn to award compensation to Mrs Hs 
representative.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigator. Through her representative, she has expressed 
disappointment and said that an additional £100 doesnt seem a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for what both Mrs H and her representative have been through. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can completely understand that whats happened has been upsetting and frustrating for 
Mrs H. Id like to reassure Mrs H that Ive looked at the complaint afresh. Having thought 
about everything I've seen and been told, Ive independently reached the same conclusions 
as our investigator. Ill explain why I say this. 
A large part of the frustration that has arisen in this situation understandably reflects the 
impact of what happened on Mrs Hs representative. I can understand that she had to spend 
a lot of time chasing things up for Mrs H due to the service failings and errors on the part of 
abrdn. I sympathise with her position. 
But this complaint relates to the way abrdn handled Mrs Hs money and her representative, 
who has no standing in the matter in any personal capacity, is effectively a third party. This 
is an important distinction which goes to the heart of what this service can do in this 
situation. 
We can only tell a business to pay compensation for upset and inconvenience experienced 
by its client, not by a third party. 
This means, when thinking about what I can fairly and reasonably require abrdn to do to put 
things right, I must keep in mind that redress for its poor service is owed to Mrs H, rather 
than to her representative. Although it was mostly Mrs Hs representative who engaged with 
abrdn and she was involved in dealing with matters on a day to day basis, she was 
representing Mrs Hs interests rather than her own. So, even though it was Mrs Hs 
representative who was put to the trouble of trying to sort things out with abrdn, under the 
rules governing our service, as representative, she isnt entitled to any personal 
compensation.
It is how abrdns failings affected Mrs H that matters when thinking about whether abrdn has 
provided fair compensation to reflect the extent and impact on Mrs H of what happened. 
Theres more information on our website which explains the Financial Ombudsman Service 
approach. Briefly, I can require abrdn to do more here for Mrs H only if I find that it hasnt 
already done enough to put things right. 
I agree that Mrs H was entitled to expect a better level of service from abrdn than she 
experienced. Her particular concern seems to be that the additional £100, on top of the £150 
already paid via her representative, is insufficient for all the distress and inconvenience shes 
been caused. I've thought carefully about this. This additional £100 compensation reflects 
abrdns failure to have told Mrs H sooner that it wanted her to provide further verification of 
the Power of Attorney (POA) she provided. It accepts that it should have told her this 
information as soon as she sent the POA to abrdn and, had it done so, I think its likely that 
matters could have been brought to a satisfactory conclusion for Mrs H more quickly. I've taken into account what Mrs H has said about how everything affected her  even to the 
extent of making her unwell. Im very sorry indeed to learn this. And I accept that whilst it 
was mainly Mrs Hs representative who had all the stress of sorting things out on a day to 
day basis, the unnecessary delay impacted directly on Mrs H and was an ongoing worry for 
her, until the matter was resolved.  
Thinking about all this, I find the way abrdn assessed overall compensation owed to Mrs H 
reflects the level of award I would make in these circumstances had it not already offered 
this amount. I dont doubt that abrdns poor handling of matters, which it admits, caused 
Mrs H significant distress and inconvenience but I think the payment it has made/agreed to 
make is fair compensation for this. 
I understand that the sale proceeds Mrs H was waiting for were paid to her promptly once 
the issues affecting the POA were sorted out. In these circumstances, I dont think it would 
be fair to ask abrdn to make any additional payment.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs H, abrdn should pay redress amounting to £250 in total  so to be 
clear, if it hasnt already done so, it should pay Mrs H a further £100 on top of the £150 
compensation it has paid already. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and direct abrdn Fund Managers Limited to take the steps set 
out above to put things right for Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman