DRN-2051135
The complaint
Mr P complains that Society of Lloyds has only settled half of his claim.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr P took out a single trip travel insurance policy. During the application, he 
was given the option to choose an individual policy or a couples policy. He says he chose 
the individual policy because he required specialist cover due to his past medical history. 
And that he chose a cancellation benefit which matched the total cost of the trip.
Within hours of purchasing the policy, Mr P was admitted to hospital having suffered from a 
heart attack. It therefore became necessary to cancel the holiday, so Mr P made a claim. 
Society of Lloyds initially concluded that Mr P had taken out the policy after his diagnosis, 
but after reviewing his hospital discharge letter it accepted this wasnt the case. It said it 
would pay Mr Ps proportion of the cost of the holiday, but not his wifes as she wasnt an 
insured person.
Mr P felt this was unfair. He said the policy terms and conditions were unclear. And he 
highlighted that hed borne the full cost of the holiday. So, whilst his wife wasnt an insured 
person he didnt think that mattered as she hadnt incurred a loss. Society of Lloyds didnt 
change its stance and maintained that it could only pay the proportion of the prepaid holiday 
costs that related to Mr P. It sent Mr P £50 to apologise for initially declining his claim in full.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She highlighted that Mr P would 
have noted that there was an option to take a couples policy. She thought it was clear from 
the policy literature that only Mr P was insured and that in the event of a cancellation hed 
only be covered for his proportion of any prepaid costs. Mr P didnt agree, so Ive been 
asked to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P booked a holiday for two people. As such, he paid for two sets of travel and 
accommodation costs - his own and those of his travelling companion (his wife). 
Cancellation cover generally applies per person, so Ive thought carefully about whether 
Society of Lloyds made that clear in this case. 
Society of Lloyds has highlighted that Mr P chose an individual policy rather than a couples 
policy. In fact, under either option Mr P had the opportunity to enter the details of a travelling 
companion and add them as an insured person. However, he only submitted his own details. 
Mr P accepts this and says it was a deliberate decision. So, it isnt in dispute that he was the 
only person named on the policy as an insured person. Effectively, his wife was uninsured. 
During the application process, Mr P had access to the policy wording, which included a 
summary of cover, and a product information document. In the policy wording, you and 
your were defined as any person named on the insurance validation documentation. 
The inclusion of a summary of cover meant Mr P had an opportunity to read a brief 
description of each section of cover without having to read the entire policy wording. 
Under the section headed if you are unable to go on your trip, it said cover was provided for 
your proportion of prepaid transport, accommodation and additional travel expenses in 
certain situations. The full cancellation section explained that Society of Lloyds would pay:
up to £4,000 for your proportion of prepaid:
transport charges;
loss of accommodation;
foreign care hire; and
pre-paid excursions booked before you go on your trip
As both explanations refer to an insured person only being able to recover their proportion of 
prepaid travel and accommodation costs, Im satisfied that this was brought to Mr Ps notice. 
In my view, it ought to have been clear from the policy literature that as the only person 
insured on the policy, Mr P would only be able to claim in relation to his own travel and 
accommodation costs in the event of a cancellation. I dont think someone could reasonably 
conclude theyd be able to recover the cost of two peoples travel and accommodation 
despite having only paid a premium for one person. 
Mr P says he was misled into thinking hed be covered for any travel and accommodation 
costs hed paid for. But I dont think that Society of Lloyds policy literature was misleading. 
And Im not persuaded Mr P and his wife ever actually intended to rely solely on his 
cancellation cover. Its clear to me that they both intended to buy separate policies, which 
each would have covered their own proportion of the travel and accommodation costs. 
In an email to our service, for example, Mr P said, my partner had not taken out insurance at 
that point and then was unable to of course post my diagnosis. And hes talked of individual 
policies being preferable to a joint policy because of his medical history. 
Its very unfortunate that due to the sudden nature of Mr Ps heart attack, his wife hadnt had 
an opportunity to apply for a policy of her own as intended. But for the reasons given above, 
I cant fairly ask Mr Ps insurer to cover her travel and accommodation costs instead.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Mike Walker
Ombudsman