DRN-1138652
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that he was mis-sold a regular payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by HSBC UK Bank PLC (HSBC).
What happened
Mrs B took out a credit card in 1989. Ten years later after the credit card was agreed and 
Mrs B had been using it, she was sold a PPI policy by HSBC. 
The policy cost 0.72p per £100 of the balance on Mrs Bs credit card. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the credit card for up to 12 
months per claim if Mrs B was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought because the policy 
was sold so long after the credit account was opened Mrs B wouldve understood the policy 
was optional and that it provided a useful benefit. 
Mrs B disagreed. She says it wasnt made clear the policy was optional and she didnt need 
it. So the complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding Mrs Bs 
complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
HSBC had to make it clear to Mrs B she had a choice in taking the policy and that she chose 
to take it. The policy was sold 10 years after Mrs Bs credit card account was opened. I dont 
know exactly what information was given to Mrs B at the time she was sold the policy but 
because PPI was applied to Mrs Bs account a few years after her credit card account was 
opened and used and I think she wouldve understood she didnt have to take PPI to have 
the credit card. And I think PPI was likely applied to her account because she chose to take 
it  I havent seen anything to suggest otherwise. 
Mrs B says she filled in a leaflet to take the PPI so I dont think HSBC advised Mrs B to take 
PPI. What this means is that HSBC didnt recommend PPI to Mrs B, it just gave her 
information about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so she could make an informed choice about buying PPI.
I dont know if HSBC did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if HSBC 
did give all the information Mrs B needed to make an informed choice on taking out the 
policy, I think she wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what we 
know about HSBC policies: 
She was eligible for the PPI. It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of 
the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it 
difficult to make a successful claim.
 
At the time of the sale Mrs B says she was entitled to some sick pay and had savings 
she could use to make her repayments if she couldnt work due to accident or 
sickness or if he lost her job. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay 
and savings and helped her in these situations, so I cant see how knowing this 
information wouldve put her off buying it.
 
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mrs B and she could 
cancel the policy if she no longer wanted it.
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mrs B on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.
Which means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But HSBC 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
 
When the policy was sold, HSBC expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about 
that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mrs B, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But HSBC UK Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman