DRN-3420398
The complaint
Mr W complains that Capital One (Europe)plc (Capital One ) turned down a credit card 
application due to an issue with his address. He would like an apology and compensation.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Its unfortunate that Mr Ws address has two different numbers attached to it. He has 
told us the number he uses as his official address wasnt on the drop-down menu, so 
he had to use the other number. Capital One has explained that there was an option 
to manually input an address - as that is common practice I think its likely this would 
have been available to Mr W to input the correct address.
Information for credit applications does need to be accurate and I understand proof of 
identity information Mr W provided supported his official address not the address he 
gave on his application. There is some dispute as to whether Capital One declined 
this application or whether Mr W withdrew it. I think Capital One would have been 
entitled to decline the application given the mismatch between the supporting 
documentation and his application.
As I understand it Mr W went on to make a further application which was declined. 
There could be any number of reasons for this but ultimately, its a business decision 
for Capital One as to who to offer credit to .
I appreciate Mr W is concerned about the impact on his credit file. I havent seen Mr 
Ws credit file but its  important that credit files are accurate, and this includes 
recording credit searches relating to credit applications. I have no evidence to show 
that Capital One has done anything wrong in this respect. 
Capital One has paid Mr W £30 compensation for failing to make a call back  leading 
to some inconvenience for Mr W. I think that was a fair response by Capital One and 
I see no reason to ask Capital One to pay further compensation
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman