DRN-3450012
The complaint
N complains that a hire agreement was mis-sold to them by Propel Finance No1 Limited 
(Propel)
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Propel, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
N acquired their phone package through a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) explains that finance providers are liable 
for what they say and for what is said by a credit broker before the consumer takes out the 
credit agreement. 
So, if N was persuaded to enter into an agreement by information that was false and if N 
wouldnt otherwise have entered into the agreement I would think the agreement had been 
misrepresented to N and that Propel should put things right.
Here, Im persuaded its likely there has been a misrepresentation. I dont think the terms of 
the contract were likely to have been adequately explained to N. I say that because:
N sought to terminate the contract as soon as they received a hard copy of it, and I 
think that suggests they were surprised by the details in the contract.
The FCA's Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) applies to all credit-related 
regulated activities. CONC 4.2.5R b (iii) says that where the information about the 
agreement is disclosed in person, as was the case here, the customer should be 
allowed to take that information away. That wasnt the case here. 
The agreement was signed in person by the owner of the business (Mr N) who has 
explained he isnt computer literate and communicates solely with pen and paper. I 
think its likely that would have been apparent to the broker at the time. There was 
therefore an added onus on the business to demonstrate that Mr N understood what 
he was entering into so he could ensure the agreement was suitable for his needs. 
Whilst I can see the contracts were supplied I dont think I have evidence that the key 
aspects of the agreement, that could have an adverse impact, were explained and 
CONC 4.2.5 (2) says they should have been.
So, I dont think N were given an adequate explanation and I therefore think this agreement 
has been misrepresented to them.
Putting things right
In these circumstances wed usually try to put the consumer back in the position they would 
have been in had the misrepresentation not have taken place. So, the contract will need to 
be ended as if it hadnt been entered into and Propel will need to refund or waive payments, 
interest and charges for all periods except where N have had use of the goods (which it 
doesnt seem they have).
N have clearly been distressed and inconvenienced by these issues. I can see theyve been 
pursued by debt collectors and havent been able to use their usual telephone number. 
Theyve also had to escalate their complaint to this service when I think it could have been 
resolved earlier. In those circumstances I think Propel should pay N £150 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Propel Finance No1 Limited 
to:
Void the contract as if it had never been entered into.
Buy back the debt if theyve sold this on to a third party.
Waive the amount theyve asked N to pay and any associated interest and
charges that have been applied for the time that N wasnt using the
telecommunications. If there was a period that N has been using the handsets
under the contractual terms, I think its fair that they pay for any use theyve had.
Release Ns telephone number back to their previous supplier,
Refund the administration cost of £100 adding 8% interest per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
Ensure that no adverse credit information regarding this contract has been recorded
on Mr N or Ns credit file.
Pay N £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenient caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman