DRN-4349992
The complaint
Mr K, director of IL (a limited company) is unhappy Tide Platform Ltd wont reimburse IL for 
the money it lost when Mr K fell victim to a scam.
What happened
IL is represented in this complaint by a claims management company, but for simplicity I will 
refer to IL and Mr K throughout this decision, even when referencing what those 
representatives have said on ILs behalf.
Mr K fell victim to a safe account scam. After Mr Ks details were compromised via a 
phishing text he was contacted by individuals claiming to be from Tide. Mr K says he was 
told that ILs Tide account was at risk  as were other accounts Mr K held elsewhere  and 
that he needed to move money to a safe account to protect it. Unfortunately, and unknown to 
him at the time, Mr K was actually speaking with fraudsters.
Believing that he was genuinely dealing with Tide, Mr K ended up making two payments, for 
£9,000 and for £7,200 out of ILs Tide account.
Mr K realised he had been the victim of a scam when he could not see the safe account the 
funds had supposedly been moved to, and immediately reported the matter to Tide to see if 
it could help stop the payments or recover the funds. Tide logged the fraud and contacted 
the business the funds had been sent to, to see if any funds remained that could be 
recovered. Ultimately though, Tide told Mr K that it wouldnt be reimbursing IL for the 
payments made from its account.
Unhappy, Mr K referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators looked into the 
complaint. Overall, they considered that while Mr K had authorised the transfers (albeit as a 
result of a scam) Tide should have done more to intervene given that the payments were 
unusual. They felt Tide should have contacted Mr K directly, rather than relying on any 
written warnings it had provided. It was our Investigators view that, had Tide done so, it was 
more likely than not the scam wouldve unravelled, and the loss wouldve been prevented. 
Our Investigator also considered that Mr K  on behalf of IL  wasnt partly to blame and 
shouldnt bear any responsibility for the loss.
Our Investigator recommended Tide refund the losses to IL.
Mr K, on behalf of IL, accepted the Investigators findings, but Tide disagreed. It did not 
consider that the payments were unusual, and noted that it had provided warnings  that the 
payee did not match what had been input by Mr K, and via a message asking for a one-time 
passcode  which Mr K had ignored. It also said that, given Mr K thought he was already 
speaking with Tide, it likely wouldnt have been able to make direct contact with him anyway.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons. 
Its not disputed that Mr K authorised the payments that are in dispute here. So as per the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that 
means IL is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Mr K was the 
unfortunate victim of a scam.
Because of this, IL is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, 
along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account providers to 
protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts 
to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victims to scams.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether Tide acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with IL, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Tide has said that, as it provides business banking facilities, its fraud detection systems 
should have greater tolerance for out of character transactions and larger payments may 
happen from time to time. Ive taken this into account when reviewing the transactions in 
dispute here.
There was regular activity on ILs account for the months in the run up to the scam, most of 
this activity was relatively small payments, and payments over £2,000 were rare. On 24 
August 2022 the account received a credit of £9,000 from a bank account belonging to Mr K 
before it was transferred out shortly after to the scammers.
This is a not insignificant amount of money, although I appreciate IL had previously made a 
payment of £9,000, that was seven months prior and was itself a relative anomaly on the 
account. I dont think this on its own would be enough to say Tide should have intervened, 
but the payment was also to a new payee. I do not think that this activity, taken as a whole, 
was usual for ILs account. I think the activity was unusual enough that Tide ought to have 
been alerted to the possibility of financial harm and intervened.
I acknowledge that this is a business account, which are usually operated differently to 
personal accounts in that they deal with higher payments and new payees more often. 
However, while keeping this in mind, with this particular business account, I dont think the 
payment in question was the norm.
Considering the nature of the scam, I think a conversation about what the payment was for 
would have quickly revealed the scam and prevented the first payment  and then any 
further payment  from being made. Mr K doesnt appear to have been given a cover story to 
use by the scammer, and he already though he was talking to Tide, so if hed been unable to 
progress with making a payment until hed been forced to speak to the real Tide, then I think 
hed have been open and honest about what was happening. With this in mind, I think it 
would be reasonable for Tide to refund the payments that are in dispute here.
Ive thought about whether IL should bear some responsibility for its loss by way of 
contributory negligence, but I dont think it should. IL fell victim to a sophisticated scam. From what Mr Ks said, the scammer knew personal details about him and they had 
knowledge of ILs account movements. And the number Mr K was called from did appear to 
be Tides genuine number. In the circumstances of the scam  including the real fear that he 
might lose a significant amount of money  I can understand why the fraud went undetected 
by Mr K.
With the benefit of hindsight, there may have been some red flags (for example the
mismatch in the confirmation of payee and the message sent with the one-time passcode) 
that Mr K couldve picked up on, particularly if hed had more time to think. But the scam took 
place over a short period of time and in the heat of the moment, in a pressured situation. 
This is of course a deliberate tactic by the fraudsters to create fear  in the hope it would 
disrupt Mr Ks thinking and make him more compliant. On balance, Im satisfied that in the 
circumstances Mr Ks actions were not unreasonable.
I have also considered if Tide did enough to try to recover ILs money once Mr K had told it 
of the scam, and Im satisfied Tide did act quickly. It contacted the recipient bank within 
around an hour of being told of the scam, but unfortunately Tide was still unable to recover 
any funds.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Tide should:
- Refund the payments  totaling £16,200
- I am not recommending that interest be paid on this amount as the funds in dispute 
here initially came from Mr Ks personal account, so IL has not been deprived of the 
funds. And this complaint is in ILs name, so I cannot consider Mr Ks personal losses 
as part of this decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Tide Platform Ltd should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask IL to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman