DRN-4076320
The complaint
Miss T complains that Go Car Credit Limited irresponsibly granted her a hire purchase 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In December 2021, Miss T acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement from 
Go Car Credit. Miss T paid a £100 deposit and was required to make 48 monthly 
repayments of around £371. The total repayable under the agreement was £17,910.
Miss T says that Go Car Credit didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it 
had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Go Car Credit didnt agree. It said 
that it carried out a thorough assessment which included checking Miss Ts credit file and 
carrying out affordability checks. It noted that Miss T had a recent default and two active 
county court judgements but her other accounts were up to date. It said Miss Ts 
employment income was confirmed through her bank statements and her benefits through 
the portal and that Miss T was asked about her expenses. It said based on its checks the 
lending was affordable.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Go Car Credit didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss T didnt agree and said the information relied on wasnt from the months immediately 
preceding her getting the car. She said her income was nowhere near what had been 
recorded and she couldnt afford the repayments. She said she tried to get out of the 
agreement before taking the car. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Go Car Credit will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The credit check Go Car Credit completed showed Miss T had several historic defaults, two 
active county court judgements (from 2016 and 2019) and one account that had more 
recently gone into default. While the more recent data from the credit report showed Miss T 
was generally managing her accounts without any major issues, I think, given the issues 
Miss T had previously experienced it would have been proportionate for Go Car Credit to 
have got a thorough understanding of Miss Ts financial circumstances before lending. In this 
case I think that Go Car Credit did do this and I have explained why below. 
Before providing the lending, Go Car Credit received copies of Miss Ts bank statements 
covering the three months leading up to the application. These showed that Miss T was 
earning money through her business. Additional to this evidence was received from its portal 
showing the benefits Miss T was receiving. Based on this, Go Car Credit found Miss Ts 
income to be around £2,500 a month. I find it reasonable that Go Car Credit verified Miss Ts 
income and based on the information it received it recorded her monthly income as around 
£2,500. Miss T has since provided evidence to show her benefit payments were less than 
Go Car Credit recorded, and I have taken this into consideration. 
An income and expenditure call took place with Miss T in October 2021. Miss T was asked 
about her residential status, and she said her partner owned the property she lived in, and 
she didnt pay any rent or make payments towards the mortgage. She was asked about her 
historic defaults and county court judgements and said that she paid £80 towards these. She 
was also asked about her other credit commitments and her expenses. Details were taken of 
Miss Ts expenses, and I find this level of checks reasonable.
Based on the evidence Go Car Credit received, it found Miss T had disposable monthly 
income of around £1,400. I find it reasonable that it relied on this information. However, even 
if I take the reduced amount of benefits Miss T showed she was receiving then this still 
would have shown she had sufficient disposable income to cover the costs of the 
repayments. Therefore, I do not find I can say that Go Car Credit was wrong to provide the 
finance. 
I note the comment Miss T made about the timing of the information provided compared to 
when she received the finance. The checks were undertaken in October and her income and 
expenses were recorded at that time and Miss T was then asked to provide some additional 
evidence. It was on this information that the offer of finance was made. On 11 November 
2021, a further call took place when Miss T explained there had been some issues with the 
car she had been considering, but she was then happy to go ahead. On the call it was 
explained the finance had been set up previously and she was told that the timing would be 
reset to reflect the delay. Based on the timings I do not find it unreasonable that Go Car 
Credit relied on the information it had received in October for the assessment of Miss Ts 
income and expenses. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman