DRN-3284557
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that the late Mrs S took out in 
2012 on the advice of Key Retirement Solutions Limited. The complaint is that the lifetime 
mortgage was mis-sold; it been brought by Ms M and Mr B, acting on the authority of the 
executor of the estate of Mrs S. 
What happened
In what follows, I have summarised events in rather less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mrs S took the mortgage out in 2012; sadly, she died in 2021. The terms of the mortgage 
provide that no monthly repayments are required. The intention is that the mortgage is due 
to be repaid if the borrower goes into full-time nursing care or after their death. It can be 
repaid voluntarily before either of those events have happened, but then an early repayment 
charge (ERC) is usually payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
I summarise below the main reasons given in the initial complaint to Key for believing that 
the mortgage had been mis-sold:
The advisor wasnt properly authorised to give advice on a regulated mortgage;
Mrs S should have been treated as vulnerable, and the appointment should not have 
gone ahead without friends or family present as she wouldnt have understood the 
implications of the contract or been able to make an informed decision.
The advisor didnt assess or verify Mrs S income, expenditure and financial provisions, 
or discuss alternatives to equity release; the recommendation was poor and not 
personalised to Mrs S
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld; Mrs S asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the specifics of the complaint.
As I said earlier, if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  We 
deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mrs S was a consumer, and 
so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. That eligibility now vests 
in her estate.
Our rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant by a 
person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, Ms M and 
Mr B are bringing the complaint on behalf of the estate, having been belatedly authorised to 
do so by the executor.
But I must explain that, although Ms M and Mr B have the executors authority to represent 
the estate, it is the estate that is Keys customer. Its Ms M and Mr Bs role is to bring the 
complaint on the estates behalf, in the same way that other consumers might instruct a 
solicitor or accountant to represent them in a complaint. But this does not entitle Ms M and 
Mr B to air their own grievances about Key, because they are not its customer; their role is 
limited to putting forward the estates complaint.
Insofar as no complaint was raised during Mrs S lifetime, in this decision I have looked at 
the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as good industry practice at the 
relevant time) and considered generally whether Key did anything wrong when the mortgage 
was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to any hindsight that the intervening years 
might have brought.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If the available evidence is incomplete and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what 
we consider is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly 
the same test that the courts use in civil cases. 
Before I address the sale itself, Ill deal with Ms M and Mr Bs concern about whether the 
status of the advisor allowed him to give advice on regulated products. Where an advisor 
works for him (or her) self, then theyre required to be individually regulated by the FCA. But 
where, as here, the advisor represented a business, it is the business that is regulated.
Turning to the sale, the starting point is the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; but its typically more reliable than peoples individual 
recollections at a distance of time which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be 
inaccurate or contradictory. 
So unless theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well 
generally attach some weight to it; more so than wed typically attach to the views expressed 
retrospectively by parties not present at the time of the transaction.
Staying with the point of sale documentation for a moment, this recorded that Mrs S had 
declined to have a family member present during her meetings with Keys advisor. Theres 
nothing at all untoward in that. Its not a requirement (whether legal, moral, regulatory or any 
other reason) for equity release applicants to involve their family or friends in the transaction. If they do not, thats not automatically evidence of a procedural failing on the part of the 
advisor or a lack of concern for a persons potential vulnerability. Its more likely to just be an 
indication that the applicants wished to keep their business private. The advisor should 
recommend applicants tell their family; that happened here. 
If an advisor insisted on someone else being informed or present, that would be an invasion 
of privacy. And if an advisor refused to proceed without someone else present, that could 
leave them exposed to an accusation of discrimination.
The information-gathering exercise identified various specific financial objectives, these 
included £6,000 to repay Mrs S existing mortgage, £6,000 for home improvements, £1,000 
to repay a credit card debt, and £2,000 to cover the fees for taking the mortgage out. On top 
of that, a contingency of £9,300 was recorded; making £24,300 in all, the maximum amount 
Mrs S could borrow against her property. The information captured also indicated that Mrs S 
didnt have any personal savings. 
Ms M and Mr B have said the latter wasnt true, and that Mrs S did have savings. But by 
proceeding with the application, Mrs S signed to confirm the information given about her 
personal circumstances and spending plans to be true and accurate at the time. Keys 
advisor wasnt required to double check that she was telling the truth; he could reasonably 
take her at her word and assume the information shed given was true. 
On that premise, it was reasonable to infer that Mrs S would have need of some form of 
borrowing if she was to be able to realise her stated objectives. Affordability is not an issue 
with equity release mortgages, as there are no monthly payment to keep up with. 
Mrs S says other possibilities for raising the money werent discussed. Its possible Mrs S 
would have been accepted for a traditional mortgage; her age, circumstances and income 
would in all probability not have disqualified her from that. But thats to assume she wanted 
to continue making regular monthly payments. The fact-find suggests otherwise; that Mrs S 
wanted to free up more of her income. That indicates to me that an equity release was 
probably the most viable option for Mrs S given the circumstances recorded at the time. The 
mortgage Key recommended and then provided for Mrs S raised the money shed asked for.
Its possible that after the mortgage had gone through, Mrs S subsequently changed her 
mind about what shed do with some or all of the money, but Keys duty was to give suitable 
advice, which Im satisfied it did. Key couldnt insist its customer follow every aspect of the 
advice it had given her. Nor was it obliged to monitor its customers behaviour after the sale 
to ensure she did what shed said she was going to do.
Ms M and Mr B say the estate is happy to pay back the amount borrowed, but not the 
interest thats accrued. That takes me to the interest rate. Having no regulatory function 
means its not my role to decide if a particular interest rate is fair or not. So I can only 
comment in general terms. Its normal for interest to roll up on a lifetime equity release 
mortgage, and then to attract further interest on a compounding basis. 
The effect of this is demonstrated in monetary terms in the point-of-sale material. Ive seen 
the illustration for the mortgage; it uses an assumption that the mortgage will last for 30 
years, but it includes a narrative pointing out this assumption and reminding the reader of the 
lifetime nature of the mortgage. That information is then replicated in the mortgage offer 
itself.The rate charged is 7.33% fixed for the duration of the mortgage, and that is set out in the 
offer. I cant know, and wont speculate on, how closely Mrs S studied the offer, or how much 
of the information it contained she assimilated; but I will return to this point in due course. 
Nonetheless, the information was set out in a manner prescribed by the FCA. I appreciate 
Ms M and Mr B say the offer wasnt personal to Mrs S, but the format, structure, content and 
language used in such documents is part of the regulatory process.
Getting back to the interest charged, the use of fixed rather than variable rates has always 
been normal on equity release mortgages, as they enable a lender to forecast the likely 
growth in the debt over time as the interest rolls up. Thats important to the lender, from a 
risk assessment point of view when deciding how much to lend. 
But it also gives a degree of clarity to the borrower about how their debt will grow over time, 
because that forecast can be incorporated into the illustration and mortgage offer, as it was 
in this case. Yes, 7.33% sounds very high in the current climate. But this rate was set in 
2012, when the financial landscape was very different from what it is now. 
Ms M and Mr B say that given the complexity of the documents, Mrs S wasnt given enough 
time to acquire a proper understanding of the mortgage. But Mrs S didnt just have the 
benefit of financial advice from Key when taking out this mortgage. 
Thats because, before she took out the mortgage, she was required to have independent 
legal advice from a solicitor. The solicitor was chosen by Mrs S from a list provided by Key; 
thats normal, and is allowed for by the FCA. Once selected, the solicitors acts exclusively 
for, and in the interests of, the borrower.
I have seen a copy of the certificate Mrs S solicitor signed. By signing the certificate, the 
solicitor was confirming that the terms of the mortgage had been explained to Mrs S. I think 
that if the solicitor had any concerns that Mrs S didnt understand, or wasnt capable of 
understanding, the nature and effect of what she was doing, she wouldnt have been allowed 
to proceed with the mortgage. 
Putting all of the above together, whilst I appreciate how much of a disappointment this will 
be to Ms M and Mr B, I dont find that Key mis-sold this equity release mortgage to the late 
Mrs S.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman