DRN-4436105
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about AXA Insurance UK PLC (AXA), who declined their claim 
under their contents insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M discovered that their outside shed had water ingress, and this had damaged 
several of their belongings. Mr and Mrs M contacted AXA to make a claim. They also sent in 
some photographs of the damage that had occurred. They explained to AXA that water had 
come into the shed and damaged the contents. 
AXA told Mr and Mrs M that as the water had entered the shed and hadnt come in as a 
result of an escape of water. Further, it said that as there had been evidence of wear and 
tear (seen on the photos submitted) there was no cover for this under the policy. So, the 
claim was declined. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to AXA as they felt that the policy had been mis-sold as they said 
they had been told that the contents in an outbuilding would be covered. In its final response, 
AXA said that the reason to decline was the correct one. As the damage caused had 
happened on a gradual basis, rather than a one-off insured event. It relied upon the policy 
terms but offered to pay Mr and Mrs M £25 compensation for a delay during the claims 
process.
As Mr and Mrs M had been given her referral rights, they referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
concluded that AXA had fairly declined the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions, 
based on gradual deterioration, due to the damage as shown in the photos.
AXA accepted the view, Mr and Mrs M did not. They said that there was damage to the 
contents of the shed, and they wanted an ombudsman decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
Ive considered both parties comments, and the evidence theyve provided. I should say at 
the outset that when we look at complaints, our role is to consider whether the insurer has 
declined the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions. In addition, I should say at the 
outset, that it is for the policyholders (here Mr and Mrs M) to prove that they have a claim, 
that is covered under those terms.  
Mr and Mrs M said that they made a claim after having discovered a hole in their shed floor, 
in June 2023. They said that it appeared that water had caused the damage and in doing so, 
had damaged several possessions that they kept in the shed. They said that they were 
unable to tell AXA, when the damage occurred, as it had been several months earlier. But as 
they felt that the policy, they held with AXA provided cover for contents in outbuildings, they 
wanted AXA to settle the claim. 
Ive had a look at the policy to see what Mr and Mrs M had agreed to when they took it out. 
In particular Ive looked at what is covered under the policy and any exclusions that may 
apply. 
Dealing with what was covered under the policy. An escape of water is an insured peril 
under the policy. But Mr and Mrs M couldnt explain how the damage occurred. Nor could 
they confirm that it happened for instance, as a result of a burst pipe. This wouldnt be 
covered under the policy. 
Storm is another insured peril that is covered under the policy and would likely cause water 
ingress. But again, Mr and Mrs M havent provided any evidence that supports that the 
damage caused, was due to a storm. So, again, under the storm peril, there is no cover. 
Mr and Mrs M provided photos of the damage caused to the shed, which Ive reviewed. They 
said that the water had run down the wall and caused the hole in the shed floor. I agree that 
this can be seen from the images provided.
AXA said that after it had reviewed the photos, it concluded that the cause of damage was 
due to wear and tear. And because the damage was caused by a gradual deterioration, the 
claim would be declined. 
The policy states:
Gradual deterioration/maintenance Any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, 
depreciation, the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet rot or fungus and costs 
that arise from the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of your buildings and its contents.
Mr and Mrs M explained that their possessions became mouldy due to the water ingress. 
And coupled with their description of water running down the walls and causing a hole in the 
shed floor, I think this shows that the damage happened over a period of time and not as a 
result of a single, one-off event.
Had Mr and Mrs M showed that the damage was caused by a single one-off event, then the 
accidental damage term wouldve applied. But as this there was no evidence of this, the 
accidental damage term wasnt applicable either. 
 
Mr and Mrs M felt that it was unfair for AXA to make an assessment on just the photos. And 
that it ought to have instructed a surveyor to assess what caused the damage. But there is 
no requirement for AXA to instruct a surveyor where other evidence, such as the photos and 
the policyholders explanation was provided. And it was able to make a reasonable 
determination, on the cause of damage. Which is what AXA did here.
Additionally, Mr and Mrs M were told they could obtain evidence that disputed AXAs cause 
of damage. But this wasnt done. 
On balance, Im satisfied that the damage caused, was as a result of a gradual deterioration 
and not because of a one-off event. I think that AXA were therefore reasonable to decline the claim. And it did so based on the account given by Mr and Mrs M, as well as the photos 
they provided. 
I acknowledge Mrs and Mr Ms strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why 
they referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I think that 
AXA declined the claim, in line with the policy terms and conditions. And I havent seen 
enough evidence to show that it acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to do anything 
further here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman