DRN-3876476
The complaint
Mr H complains that transfers he tried to make werent completed by Lloyds Bank PLC. 
What happened
Last summer, Mr H tried to complete three transfers to a broker account he holds. Mr H 
attempted two transfers of £1,000 and one of £1,200. Mr H has explained he intended to use 
the funds to trade and, as a result of the delay, lost out on a return of around £5,200. 
Mr H contacted Lloyds and raised a complaint when the transfers didnt complete. Lloyds 
reviewed Mr Hs account and issued a final response. Lloyds said its systems had failed to 
complete a two factor authentication process when Mr H attempted the transfers due to an 
unexpected systems issue. Lloyds confirmed the systems issue had been resolved and 
offered Mr H £65 to apologise. 
Lloyds didnt offer to cover Mr Hs trading losses and pointed to its terms and conditions. 
Lloyds terms advised it wouldnt be liable for losses of the nature Mr H is seeking to recover. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Hs case. They thought Lloyds had dealt with it 
fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr H asked to appeal so his complaint has been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about what happened. Mr H attempted three transfers but due to a systems issue, the 
authentication process wasnt completed and they didnt go through. Mr H seeks to recover 
his associated trading losses but Lloyds says its terms means its not liable. 
Ive reviewed the relevant terms and conditions which have been set out by the investigator 
and business already. The terms says Lloyds doesnt have to compensate a customer for 
their losses in certain circumstances, including when the issue was caused by unexpected 
problems with the IT system. Here, Lloyds has confirmed an unanticipated error with its 
systems meant the two stage verification process wasnt completed for the transactions Mr H 
attempted. And Lloyds says its fair to rely on its account terms in the circumstances as Mr H 
accepted them when he opened the account. 
I understand Mr Hs view that he had the intention to use the funds for trading and wouldve 
made a profit. But I think Lloyds makes a reasonable point when it says Mr H accepted the 
terms and conditions of its current account when it was opened. The terms specifically note 
that there are circumstances where Lloyds wont be liable for associated losses. And it 
specifically notes the circumstances of Mr Hs case (IT issues) as one of the situations 
where it wont be liable for associated losses. 
Mr H accepted the terms and conditions of the current account as part of the application 
process. So whilst I understand Mr Hs frustration, I think its fair to say Lloyds response to 
his complaint is in line with the agreement it entered into when he opened the account. And 
the agreement confirmed that Lloyds isnt liable for losses caused by unexpected IT issues 
like the one experienced here. Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, but Im satisfied Lloyds has fairly 
applied the account terms and conditions in this case. 
Lloyds apologised for the errors and offered Mr H £65 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I understand why Mr H feels the offer is too low. But Im satisfied the offer fairly 
reflects the level of inconvenience caused when the payments werent approved as 
expected and is a fair way to resolve his complaint. As Lloyds has already agreed a 
settlement that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
My final decision
My decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman