DRN-3058465
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has undervalued 
his car following the theft of his vehicle. 
What happened
Mr Ks car was stolen so he made a claim. Admiral offered Mr K £14,220 as a total loss 
settlement.
But Mr K wants Admiral to pay what he thinks the car is worth. Mr K says that from his own 
research to get a like for like replacement it would cost him around £15,200. He also says 
that by undervaluing the car he is now out of pocket as he has to make up approximately a 
£1,200 differential between what he owes on finance and what Admiral has paid. He is also 
a further £252 out of pocket due to an arrears payment he now owes. 
An investigator from our service looked at this complaint. The investigator felt that Admiral 
hadnt made a fair offer and suggested that Admiral increase its offer to £14,634.33. The 
investigator also suggested a £150 compensation payment for the inconvenience caused. 
But Admiral doesnt agree, and its asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning on upholding this complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr K is unhappy with the valuation that Admiral has placed on his car. Mr K says that he and 
his family have just gone through a traumatic experience where they had suffered a burglary. 
And now Admiral are compounding that suffering by undervaluing his car. He says that 
Admiral should be paying whats owed on the vehicle, and that he shouldnt be left out of 
pocket for this. Mr K says Admiral are valuing the incorrect model of vehicle, the MK7 model, 
whilst his is a MK7.5 facelift model with added extras. He also states what Admiral is offering 
will not get him the spec of car hes lost. His is a white car he says its worth more on the 
market. 
Our approach is to consider whether Admiral has settled Mr Ks claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of his policy, fairly and reasonably. So, I have considered the terms of the 
policy and the offer made in order to determine whether Admiral have acted fairly. I can see 
that in the event the car cant be repaired, Admiral wont pay more than the market value of 
the car at the time of the loss.
Market Value is defined as The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value 
is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
Our usual approach to complaints about car valuations is similar to Admirals and that is to 
look at motor trade guides for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these persuasive 
because their valuations are based on nationwide research and likely selling prices. The 
guides refer to advertised and auction prices to work out what the likely selling price for the 
same vehicle would be. This takes into account all the specifications of the vehicle as well as 
any extras and the mileage. If a guide price is significantly higher or lower than the others, 
we may think its reasonable to ignore it. This depends on the value of the vehicle.
Customers sometimes say the amount theyve been paid is unfair because theyve seen 
similar vehicles advertised at higher prices. We wouldnt normally place as much weight on 
adverts to decide whether a valuation is fair. Differences in mileage or year of registration 
can significantly affect value. But adverts can be indicative of whats really going on in the 
market. And they can be helpful if the complaint involves a classic or rare model or if they 
strongly indicate that the guides could be wrong. 
Ive checked the motor trade guides for the value of Mr Ks car at the time of the incident and 
they produced the following valuations: 
CAP £14,200; Glasss £14,220 and Cazana £15,483. 
Admiral has offered a value of £14,220. It says this is the highest valuation it was able to 
obtain. It says that the figure from Cazana is over £1,200 higher than the CAP or Glass 
valuation which clearly indicates the value from Cazana is an outlier and therefore should be 
discarded in line with Financial Ombudsman Service approach. Admiral says the car is not a 
classic or rare car and as such including the Cazana valuation it is unreasonable.
As a service we generally use two approaches to provide a fair value using the data from the 
trade guides alongside all other evidence. We utilise as many trade guides as we can and 
use the values provided. If the values vary greatly, we might think its reasonable to ignore 
any outlying valuation. Or alternatively we might take the average of all the valuations weve 
received. But the key is that we use an approach that feels fair. So, if theres varying 
valuations presented, we dont just look at the guides and decide. Wed look at everything 
thats been provided on the file, engineers comments, trade guides, and even 
advertisements, to ensure the consumer is getting a fair valuation for the vehicle. 
In this case Admiral didnt use Cazana. But its an available trade guide, so I will be using it. 
Further to this Im not convinced that the Cazana valuation is such an outlier that it should be 
discounted. Mr K has submitted a few valuations, and from what I can see they are identical 
models with similar mileage and include the added extras that Mr K had. These 
advertisements are all coming in at around £15,500. Helpfully the Cazana valuation tool also 
provides us with details of similar specification vehicles that have sold in the UK. And from 
this information I can see that this type of vehicle, with mileages ranging from 40,000 to 
70,000, is selling for between £15,000 and £18,000, and all inside the last 10 months in the 
UK.
So, I think we should look at everything we have and not just two specific trade guides. The 
criteria that drive the price are so varied, and some very specific criteria such as age, 
mileage, or additional extras play a big part in determining the price. Because of this it 
makes sense to rely on the guides and also use the data provided by Mr K to make sure the 
valuation is fair. 
But I need to stress, its not up to this service to place an exact valuation on Mr Ks vehicle. 
Its our role to make sure Admiral is giving Mr K a fair valuation. And in this instance, given 
all the evidence on file, I think the valuation Admiral has placed on the vehicle is too low. So, based on the information provided about Mr Ks car Im satisfied we should include the 
Cazana valuation and I think the fairest approach would be to take the average of the three 
guides, which in this case is £14,634.33. This is the amount Admiral should pay Mr K for his 
car (less any applicable excess). 
I appreciate that Mr K wants Admiral to pay what he owes on the finance on this car. But 
market value as defined in the policy is the cost of replacing the car. Market value doesnt 
mean that any outstanding finance will be paid over and above the market value. Thats not 
what this specific insurance is for. So, the approximate £1,200 differential owing on the car 
and the £252 in additional charges are Mr Ks responsibility and are not costs we would be 
asking Admiral to cover. 
However, I do note that our investigator did recommend that Admiral pay £150 in 
compensation to Mr K for the inconvenience caused. And I agree. Mr K was caused an 
inconvenience because Admiral didnt pay him a fair value for his car. And Im satisfied £150 
is a fair amount of compensation for this.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is to uphold this complaint in part.
I require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
pay Mr K £14,634.33 less any applicable excess for his car. If Mr K has already 
received a payment, Admiral should pay the difference up to this amount.
pay 8% simple interest on the amount being paid to Mr K from the date the claim was 
made to the date of payment.
pay £150 in compensation to Mr K for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman