DRN-1621288
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that the vehicle they acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by First Response Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. They further complain 
it wasnt supplied as described. They want to reject the vehicle and end the agreement.
What happened
The finance agreement is in joint names but for ease of reading Ill mostly refer to Mrs B.
Mrs B tells us that she acquired the vehicle through a dealer Ill refer to as R, having seen it 
offered in an advertisement. She reports that soon after supply, a knocking noise was 
heard. She also states that there were faults with the handbrake, door latch and washers not 
working. Mrs B states that shes provided a report from a local garage N which inspected the 
vehicle and found the knocking noise to be probably associated with the gearbox or 
driveshaft. In addition, she explains that several of the items advertised werent supplied with 
the vehicle. The missing items included satellite navigation system; heated seats; sunroof; 
electric door mirror and service history. And that there was a mileage discrepancy with the 
vehicle having covered around 2,000 more miles than that advertised. 
FRF told us that R had repaired the vehicle including replacing a wheel bearing, and repairs 
to a handbrake cable and door lock mechanism. And it accepted this hadnt fully solved the 
problem. FRF said it had then arranged for the vehicle to be independently inspected by a 
company Ill refer to as S. It said S had identified that the four alloy wheels had recently 
been refurbished and the rear offside wheel was buckled. It said this was probably due to the 
vehicle being driven over a pothole. And it identified a knocking noise which might be caused 
by a worn suspension bush or damaged driveshaft. It concluded that the vehicle had been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought there 
was insufficient information to show that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when 
supplied.
Mrs B didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs B and Mr B would be disappointed when it became apparent that the 
vehicle was exhibiting faults soon after it was supplied. As a used vehicle with over 80,000 
miles covered it would be reasonable for the vehicle to be showing signs of wear and tear. 
And not every fault would mean the vehicle would not be of satisfactory quality.
Mrs B and Mr Bs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and 
our service is able to consider complaints relating to it. FRF supplied the vehicle so its 
responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle.
It would also be responsible for any misrepresentation made about the vehicle by R during 
antecedent negotiations. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induces a 
consumer to enter an agreement and suffer a loss as a result of the misrepresentation.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA); the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA); and the Consumer 
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations of 2008 (CPUTR).
The CRA states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of satisfactory quality 
when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined being what a reasonable person would 
consider to be satisfactory. And this would include aspects of price, previous use and 
durability. The CPUTR requires that a consumer be given sufficient information in order to 
make an informed decision before proceeding to acquire goods.
The CRA contains a presumption that where goods dont conform to contract within six 
months of the date of supply that they didnt do so at that time. This presumption applies 
unless its shown that the goods did conform to contract at that time.
Mrs Bs complaint is that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. And that it 
wasnt supplied with all the items which were advertised.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive seen various documents including the advertisement, and reports from two companies, 
S and N, which inspected the vehicle. And Ive viewed an MOT certificate dated 30 July 
2019 which shows the vehicle passed without advisories. The odometer reading was 
recorded as 81,205 miles. Ive also listened to a recording of a telephone conversation 
between Mr B and FRF prior to the agreement being incepted.
Its apparent from the telephone conversation that the original screen price of the vehicle 
(£6,740) has been reduced to £6,000 after it was discovered that some items werent being 
supplied. As a price reduction has been negotiated and agreed I dont find that there was 
any misrepresentation in respect of the difference between the advertised features and 
those supplied.
The report by S, which inspected the vehicle on 8 November 2019, lists the qualifications of 
the engineer and is accompanied by a statement of truth.
It concluded that the wheel rims were all consistent with having been recently refurbished. 
And that the nearside front wheel bearing had been recently replaced. It identified that the
offside rear wheel was buckled. It felt this was likely due to driving over a pothole.The report from N gives only the name of the business and the director. Letters dated 16 
December 2019 and 17 January 2020 identify the problem as being with the driveshaft or the 
gearbox.  But it doesnt note any problem with the (buckled) rear wheel.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The vehicle was supplied to Mrs B and Mr B on or around 1 August 2019. This is about two 
days after the MOT test. The MOT did not reveal any advisories, and in my opinion, it seems 
more likely than not that any buckling of a wheel wouldve been identified had it been 
present at this stage. When S examined the vehicle, it had covered around 2,400 miles since 
supply. Which is about average use in that three month period. Its also clear that work had 
been carried out on the wheels since supply.
Im unable to say why N wouldnt have identified a buckled wheel several weeks after S had 
inspected the vehicle as theres no information to show that any repairs had been 
undertaken in this time. But on a balance of probabilities its more likely that this fault would 
be overlooked rather than be positively identified if it wasnt present. And Ive no information 
to show that N  unlike S - carried out any check using a wheel balancing machine. I find 
that the report by S is more reliable. And that the vehicle has probably suffered damage due 
to impact with a pothole after the point of supply.
In summary, its not in dispute that the vehicle was supplied when not of satisfactory quality. 
And that repairs were required to bring it up to the required standard. FRF has identified that 
R carried out repairs to the reported faults with the handbrake and door locks as well as 
replacing a wheel bearing. But the knocking noise is the subject of contradictory opinions 
from engineers who have inspected the vehicle.
On a balance of probabilities, it seems more likely than not that the current knocking noise 
is the result of damage resulting from impact with a pothole. And as it wasnt identified at the 
MOT immediately preceding supply its reasonable to infer its occurred since that time. As 
such I think FRF has shown it wasnt present at the point of supply. Ive also taken into 
account the mileage the vehicle has been able to cover which suggests its performance 
wasnt substantially impaired. I shant be asking FRF to do anything else to resolve this 
complaint.
I accept that Mrs B and Mr B will be disappointed at my decision. But Im not upholding the 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman