DRN-4213986
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about the way National House-Building Council [NHBC] handled a 
claim they made under a Buildmark building warranty. 
What happened
Mr A has brought this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife so Ill refer to him mainly 
throughout. NHBC is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint 
concerns the actions of its agents for which NHBC has accepted responsibility. Any 
reference to NHBC includes the actions of the agents.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive included a summary 
here.  
Mr A owns a property with the benefit of a Buildmark building warranty underwritten 
by NHBC.
In 2020, the chimney of Mr As property began leaking and he made a claim on the 
warranty. NHBC took over responsibility for resolving the issue from the house 
builder. Unhappy with the way the claim was handled, Mr A made several complaints 
to NHBC. Over these complaints, it acknowledged it should have handled the claim 
better and paid Mr A several amounts in compensation. These previous issues arent 
covered under this complaint but included for context. 
In December 2022, Mr A made a further complaint. NHBC issued a final response 
and apologised for the additional claim delays and for the inadequate repair 
undertaken to the chimney. It reiterated its £750 offer of compensation.
Mr A raised a complaint with this Service. Our Investigator considered the evidence 
and concluded the offer was fair for the impact of the delays during the period of time 
covered by the complaint. Mr A disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand this claim has had a significant impact on Mr A and his family over the 
entirety of the claim and I empathise with the personal circumstances he describes in 
his submissions. My role requires me to assess the evidence in an unbiased manner 
and that may mean at times my decision sounds a little dispassionate. I mean no 
offence by this, it merely reflects the nature of what Im required to do here.  
Our Investigator has explained we cant consider Mr As previous complaints to 
NHBC as the issues they covered werent raised with this Service within the six 
month deadline from when the final responses were issued. From what Ive seen 
Mr A has accepted this.
So the focus of my decision is on the issues covered under NHBCs final response of 
20 December 2022 covering the period March 2022 to December 2022. And Ill be 
considering the impact of NHBCs actions during this time period only.
Its clear NHBCs attempts to fix the problem by repairing the lead work and 
undertaking brickwork sealing was unsuccessful. A water test identified a hairline 
crack that had previously been missed. I would have expected NHBC to identify this 
sooner to ensure the repair it undertook was effective and lasting but it failed to do 
this. 
Following this, there were a number of supply delays relating to tiles which were out 
of stock and a replacement chimney with a six to eight week lead time which arrived 
but wasnt the right pitch so had to be corrected. In the end, the work wasnt 
completed until towards the end of 2022. While these delays may not have all been 
directly within NHBCs control, had the repairs been effective the first time, these 
could have been avoided so Im satisfied it is responsible for the impact of the time 
this took.
I understand from the evidence there were additional issues with scaffolding having 
to be erected, taken done and then re-erected and the removal of a portaloo. There 
was also some damage caused by debris and scaffolding. This increased Mr As 
concerns about health and safety and he says he felt his family couldnt safely use 
the garden.  Mr A also expressed his view that NHBC had failed to learn from the 
lessons of previous mistakes and lack of oversight of its contractors on site.
I can understand how this would have all added to the stress and inconvenience 
Mr A experienced and if NHBC had handled things as it should have, this could have 
largely been avoided.
I can see the significant impact the claim has had on Mr A and his family. But I have 
also had to keep in mind that Im only considering part of the life of the claim and the 
compensation I award will be limited to the impact of NHBCs actions over that time. 
That said, I can see how the impact of NHBCs actions over this period will have had 
a greater impact on Mr A because of his experiences in the earlier part of the claim. 
Ive thought about this all very carefully and having done so, Ive concluded the £750 
NHBC has offered Mr A is a fair way for it to recognise the impact of its actions over 
this period. I acknowledge Mr A doesnt agree with this, but Im satisfied it is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
National House-Building Council has already made an offer to pay Mr and Mrs A £750 to 
settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that National House-Building Council should pay Mr and Mrs A £750.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman