DRN-3952531
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained National Westminster Bank plc wont reimburse money they 
lost as the result of a scam.
What happened
Mr and Mrs W hold a joint account with NatWest. Mrs W received a phone call from 
someone saying they were from the police. They told her that her card had been used to buy 
a laptop and they were concerned fraudsters had copied her cards and would now be able to 
access all her money. Mrs W was initially sceptical and advised to phone 999. This was to 
show her how seriously this issue was being taken. She did this and believed she was put 
through to the Serious Fraud Office.
She was asked about the accounts she held. She was then advised to take out money from 
her bank to keep it safe. Mrs W was also provided with a cover story to provide to branch 
staff. She was asked to then give this cash to someone whod come round to the house. 
Mrs W went into the branch in town to withdraw £5,800 following the instructions shed been 
given by the people she thought were police.
The staff at her branch asked Mrs W some questions about her withdrawal being a large 
amount and unusual in accordance with NatWests procedures. She told them she was 
buying a whippet puppy for £3,200 and needed the rest to pay for repairs to her boiler which 
had just been carried out after an annual inspection. She didnt have an invoice but expected 
to receive one. 
After being satisfied that Mrs W hadnt been called by anyone saying they were from her 
bank, the police or HMRC, NatWest gave Mrs W the cash she requested. That evening she 
gave this money  along with another £750 shed taken out at cash machines from three 
different accounts on her way home  to a courier outside her back gate.
The following day Mrs W received a further call from the scammers but just after was 
phoned by the genuine police. Although details arent completely clear it is suspected that 
the scammers had been under observation by the police and then arrested. Mrs W realised 
shed been a victim of a scam and reported this immediately to NatWest. She asked 
NatWest to reimburse her. They believed there were no suspicious circumstances based on 
what Mrs W had told them when running through their checklist. Unhappy with this outcome, 
Mrs W has brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Mrs W is represented by her 
son in her complaint but for ease Ill refer to her throughout.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence including the questions NatWest confirmed Mrs W 
had been asked. She believed there was little more that NatWest could have done.
Still unhappy, Mrs W has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 31 January 2023. I believed NatWest should have 
taken further action to intervene in this case. I asked NatWest to reimburse Mr and Mrs W 
£6,050.
In response, NatWest offered to pay £2,600 as a gesture of goodwill. They questioned a few 
other aspects of what happened including saying they had no evidence to show Mrs W had 
withdrawn £250 from her NatWest account.
Mrs W rejected this offer but accepted the outcome of the provisional decision. She also 
clarified a number of points around what had happened and what NatWest had said.
I now have enough information to complete a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why and also cover the issues raised by both NatWest and Mrs W where relevant.
Theres no dispute that Mrs W used her debit card to withdraw £5,800 from a NatWest 
branch. She also withdrew £750 from three cash machines. This was withdrawn as three lots 
of £250 from three different accounts. One of those £250 withdrawals came from Mr and 
Mrs Ws NatWest account. NatWest say they cant evidence this withdrawal. I can confirm, 
however, this was noted as a transaction on 5 October 2021 (but completed on 4 October) 
on the transaction list NatWest provided to our service along with their other evidence.
At the time she believed she was doing this to keep her funds safe from someone who had 
access to her card details and therefore her accounts. And whilst nobody disputes Mrs W 
has been the victim of a scam, Im satisfied Mrs W instructed NatWest to give her the cash. 
The evidence shows that NatWest followed her instruction after taking some steps to 
understand why Mrs W was making this transaction. I explore this further below.
Its accepted that NatWest has an obligation to follow a customers instructions. In the first 
instance Mrs W is presumed liable for her loss. I say this because Mrs W made the 
withdrawal herself. But thats not the end of the story.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider that NatWest 
should:
have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
Mrs W fell victim to a sophisticated but not unknown scam. I can also see from the testimony 
her son has provided that Mrs W was initially cautious. I should stress here that this 
testimony came from Mrs W but provided to our service by her son as her representative. I only say this as NatWest wondered how Mr W knew this. I dont doubt this is Mrs Ws direct 
testimony. It was only when she supposedly spoke to the Serious Fraud Office  although 
this remained the fraudsters taking advantage of Mrs W  that she believed what she was 
being told and did what she was asked. She believed she was taking steps to secure her 
funds. 
However I also note that Mrs W realised pretty quickly that things werent as she believed. 
The scam was reported to NatWest the following day after Mrs W had spoken to the genuine 
police.
Im aware that NatWest has procedures in place to check unusual transactions and cash 
withdrawals. In fact theyve confirmed to us that as this was a large amount and unusual 
they ran through a checklist of questions with Mrs W. These were to understand Mrs W 
knew what she was doing and was giving her instruction to withdraw cash willingly. In fact 
NatWest calls these steps My Customer Protection Checks. The staff member dealing with 
Mrs W confirms and signs these checks were undertaken and a senior authorised person  
in Mrs Ws case, the branch manager  also confirms their completion.
I have reviewed the checks NatWest has in place.
NatWest has given us the checklist they went through with Mrs W. Ive also seen testimony 
from both members of staff who having reviewed the checks and having both spoken to 
Mrs W confirmed they were satisfied to proceed and gave Mrs W her cash. I should add 
that this testimony was completed more than four months after Mrs W made her withdrawal, 
but I appreciate why in one instance the staff member predominantly dealing with Mrs W 
would recall her.
I note Mrs W remains unconvinced that she talked to any other staff member than the one 
who was dealing with her request. The branch manager was asked to bring over more cash 
but she didnt interact with him.
Mrs W is an older woman, doesnt often attend the branch to withdraw cash and in fact has 
no record of doing this over the previous two years. However her age alone might not be an 
indicator of vulnerability. But the bank would know that older customers are more likely to be 
victims of scams and that customers are often provided with a very convincing story of why 
they would need so much cash. This is what I believe happened here.
Mrs W confirmed she needed the money to pay for a whippet puppy, costing £3,200, and to 
pay for boiler repairs. £2,600 for boiler repairs strikes me as a substantial amount to be 
paying without either an invoice or in fact paying by any other means but cash. I should add 
here that Mrs W has said she didnt specify two amounts for the two different things she was 
purchasing. Banks are prompted to keep an eye out for potential rogue traders. These are 
most likely to require cash payment. Although Mrs W hadnt fallen victim to a rogue trader 
scam, I still think Id have expected NatWest to have probed a little further on this aspect. 
Theres no evidence this was done.
Also nobody appears to have thought it was unusual that Mrs W  taking into account her 
age  would be buying an expensive puppy. And I think I may know why this could have 
been missed. The person Mrs W was dealing with at the branch counter was being 
persuaded at home to buy a whippet for her family, so they discussed the suitability of such 
a pet. Mrs W has denied she showed or saw any photos of puppies during this exchange, 
but Im not persuaded this matters. The key thing is I believe the discussion about how lovely 
whippet puppies were meant not enough attention was being paid to Mrs W being a victim of 
a scam. I remain concerned that no-one really thought about the overall feasibility  and the 
coincidence of two large bills appearing at once  of Mrs Ws story.I know Mrs Ws son has wondered why NatWest thought it appropriate that a vulnerable 
customer was allowed to go through the streets of a major market town holding as much 
cash as she did. I have some sympathy for this view. Its not clear that NatWest offered her 
any advice about keeping the money secure as she went home. I should also add though it 
would not be fair and reasonable to place such a responsibility on the bank alone.
The checklist means that Mrs W was asked upfront whether shed had a call from someone 
saying they were from the police. She denied this was the case. I know her son has 
wondered whether this question was in fact ever asked but I see no reason to doubt it from 
what Ive seen of NatWests evidence. Id also expect the scammers to have briefed Mrs W 
to answer in this way. And importantly in Mrs Ws mind I dont believe she thought they were 
saying they were from the police as shed been satisfied they were the police.
Overall I do think theres enough evidence to suggest NatWest should have taken additional 
steps to probe further about what was going on here. A bank is always in a better place than 
an individual customer to appreciate the complexity of scams. And in this instance this is a 
scam of a type banks have seen before. I have considered whether Mrs W insisted that she 
was perfectly capable of making her own decisions to manage her money and that stance 
could have deterred NatWest from taking this next step. But Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Mrs W made such statements. I know Mrs W is concerned I may be accusing her of being 
bolshie. I can reassure her Im not, rather considering all possibilities which could have 
influenced what happened.
There would have been different options open to NatWest. They could have taken Mrs W to 
another room to discuss things in private. There they could have asked additional questions 
to their checks to get a better idea of what was in Mrs Ws mind. Or they could have invoked 
the banking protocol. This would have resulted in the police being called to discuss what was 
happening with Mrs W. I think the combination of potential rogue trading and the infeasibility 
of a puppy purchase should have meant NatWest took this step.
I have no doubt  despite what Mrs W told NatWest  that faced with the actual police, 
Mrs W would have quickly realised she was being scammed. I say this because she quickly 
realised the following day this was the case after speaking to the genuine police.
On balance and based on the evidence Ive seen, I do believe NatWest could have done 
more.
Putting things right
If NatWest had done more, I believe this would have meant that Mrs W would not have lost 
£5,800. In addition, she wouldnt have gone to three cash machines to withdraw a further 
£750. £500 of this money didnt come from a NatWest account but £250 did and I think 
NatWest should refund this amount too.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct National Westminster Bank plc to 
refund £6,050 to Mr and Mrs W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman