DRN-3729754
The complaint
Miss E complains that Studio Retail Limited (Studio), provided her with a catalogue 
shopping account that she could not afford, and continued to increase her credit limit when it 
shouldnt have.
What happened
In August 2014 Studio approved a catalogue shopping account with an initial limit of £250 for 
Miss E. It then increased that limit five times until it reached £1,300 in August 2016.
By January 2020 Miss E had clearly run into difficulties maintaining repayments, and Studio 
defaulted her account in March of that year, with the outstanding debt being ultimately sold 
to a third party later in May 2020. Ive included a table showing the limit increases for ease of 
understanding:
Event Date New limit
Account opened August 2014 £250
1st limit increase March 2015 £400
2nd limit increase October 2015 £550
3rd limit increase March 2016 £800
4th limit increase May 2016 £1,050
5th limit increase August 2016 £1,300
After Studio rejected her complaint, Miss E brought the case to our service. One of our 
adjudicators looked at the evidence and thought that Studio hadnt done anything 
significantly wrong. Miss E doesnt accept that, and asked that the case be passed to an 
Ombudsman for review.
Miss E has confirmed to us that the third party has written off the debt and she no longer 
owes anything. This raises the possibility that she has therefore suffered no financial loss in 
this instance. That is, if the amount of debt that has been written off is greater than what I 
would direct Studio to pay if I found evidence to uphold the complaint, then she would be 
owed nothing regardless of the outcome of my decision. However, I have proceeded to 
review the merits of the complaint in full.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Studio was required to carry out sufficient checks to ensure that Miss E would be able to 
repay the borrowing it was making available to her in a sustainable way. The rules in 
place dont require any particular or named evidence to be gathered. Simply that the 
checks be proportionate.
Studio used a combination of high-level credit checks and information about how Miss E had 
been managing her account with it in order to decide whether to open an account, and then 
whether the credit limit increases were affordable. The adjudicator thought that Studio 
should also have asked Miss E about her income and expenditure at each lending decision, 
and that by March 2016 it should have been verifying her financial circumstances.
I agree with that, particularly noting that at no point does Studio seem to have even asked 
Miss E basic questions about her income.
I therefore need to go on to consider what Studio would have found had it done further 
checks, and whether more evidence ought to have led it to conclude that the borrowing 
was not affordable for Miss E. To help me with that question, Ive had the benefit of seeing 
Miss Es full credit file. Studio could have decided to gather different evidence, but in the 
absence of anything else, I feel it is right for me to place weight on what the credit file 
shows.
In short, it raises no concerns which ought to have let Studio know that Miss E could not 
afford the credit increases. At the time of the lending decisions, the file suggests that Miss 
E was managing a fairly modest number of credit accounts well. Later, particularly from 
2019 onwards, its sadly clear that Miss E was experiencing wide ranging financial 
problems. But prior to the last credit limit increase, there is no evidence of any difficulty, or 
over indebtedness. There were one or two late payments on the account prior to the final 
increase, but no sustained or significant indicators of problems in how Miss E was 
managing it.
Miss E says that as she only ever made the minimum required repayment, or slightly more 
than that, it should have been clear to Studio that she couldnt afford any of the credit limit 
increases. I dont agree. People choose to manage credit and income in a range of ways, 
and making the minimum required repayment isnt, in and of itself, an automatic sign that 
there are affordability problems in play. And in this case, Ive been given no evidence to 
support the conclusion that the credit limits should have been identified as unaffordable.
Of course I accept that ultimately Miss E wasnt able to manage the repayment on this 
account. But that doesnt necessarily mean that Studio could have, or ought to have been 
able to, predict that from the available evidence at the time in question. Based on what Ive 
seen, I dont think more in-depth checks ought to have led Studio to conclude that this 
borrowing wasnt affordable.
It therefore follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Studio doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman