DRN-3192151
The complaint
 A company which Ill refer to as C, complains that without the joint authorisation of the two 
signatories on its bank account, Santander UK Plc amended its on-line banking facility so 
that only one signatory was able to authorise on-line payments. 
In bringing this complaint C is represented by one of its directors  who I refer to as Mr S.
What happened
 In 2017 C opened a business account with Santander. Mr S and a fellow director who I refer 
to as Mrs O were the authorised signatories on the account mandate. Either of them had 
authority to sign cheques, request transfers and give other instructions to the bank. Later C 
signed up for Santanders on- line banking facility known as the Connect service (the 
Service). Mr S and Mrs O were the Administrators of the Service. 
In early April 2020, Mr S made changes to the settings on the Service so that in future all on-
line payments required the authorisation of both himself and Mrs O. 
A few days later, Mrs O asked the bank to reverse the changes because she needed to 
make urgent payments on behalf of C, including staff salaries. Cs relationship director 
arranged for that to happen. 
In the weeks that followed, Santander received opposing instructions from Mr S and Mrs O. 
In other words, Mr S would ask for the settings on the Service to be changed to one of joint 
authorisation for on-line payments, whereas later Mrs O would countermand those 
instructions. In the end, Santander decided to close Cs account. And so, in May 2020 
Santander gave C notice to that effect and in June 2020 the account was closed. Mrs O 
resigned as director of C in May 2020. 
C was unhappy about the way Santander acted in this matter. In particular, Mr S didnt think 
the bank was even handed in the way they treated him compared to Mrs O. He said his 
mental health was impacted as a result. 
Santander didnt think theyd done anything wrong.  In summary - they said:
because of the way both Mr S and Mrs O were set up on the Service, they could 
individually and separately make changes to the settings; 
the changes that were made to the settings were authorised either by Mr S or Mrs O 
or an employee of the bank; 
they believed the relationship between Mr S and Mrs O had broken down, so they 
took the decision to close Cs account. 
C remained unhappy, and therefore, referred its complaint to this service. It would like 
Santander to refund all the fees that were charged to operate the account from when it was 
opened to the date it was closed. Mr S has told us also that he received treatment for his 
mental health condition which deteriorated because of Santanders actions. So, he would 
like the bank to refund the cost of his treatment. 
Our investigator didnt think Santander had done anything wrong so, she didnt uphold Cs 
complaint. The investigator observed that the account opening documents showed both Mr 
S and Mrs O had administrative access to the Service. And so, she was satisfied, either of 
them could arrange the settings to one requiring either joint or sole authorisation for on-line 
payments. Although the investigator acknowledged that on occasions the relationship 
director personally arranged the changes requested by Mrs O, nonetheless, she concluded 
that in reality the changes were in line with those Mrs O could have made in any event as an 
Administrator of the Service. 
C didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. Mr S said he believes the relationship 
director colluded with Mrs O in an attempt to remove him from any involvement in the 
running of C. And he repeated that the events impacted his mental health. 
What I provisionally decided and why
I provisionally concluded based on available information that Cs complaint should be 
upheld. So, I wrote to C and to Santander on 17 January 2022 setting out my reasons for 
coming to that conclusion. I gave both parties until 31 January 2022 to respond with any 
further points.
In my e-mail to both parties I said:
Its not in dispute Mr S and Mrs O were both set up as Administrators of the Service. And, I 
note the scope of their responsibilities as Administrators were set out in clause 4 of the 
terms and conditions of the Service which says:
4. Administrators and Users.
4.3 An Administrator is responsible for the following functions on behalf of the Customer:
a) appointing and removing other Administrators
b) undertaking administrative controls and functions within the Service including (but 
not limited to) establishing payment limits, account settings, role management and 
customer settings.
Im satisfied that as Administrators both Mr S and Mrs O were able to alter, amongst other 
things the settings on the Service. The investigator is right about that. And clearly on 9 April 
2020 Mr S did so when he called the bank and asked for help in that regard to ensure that all 
on-line payments had to be jointly authorised by him as well as Mrs O.
I also note that later on that day, Mr S called in again to make sure the settings were 
properly in place. And in his conversation with the banks employee he explained that he felt 
Mrs O and another employee of C had taken the decision to cut him out of the company. He 
said: 
I dont want to interfere with [Mrs Os] right to make payments. All I want is the ability for 
both of us to authorise stuff. Also, that works the opposite way around so if I want to make 
payments, I want [Mrs O] to authorise or deny it.  
In spite of what Mr S had said the settings were subsequently changed so that payment 
authorisation could be done by one Administrator only. 
Although Ive found no persuasive evidence the relationship director colluded with Mrs O to 
remove Mr S from the running of C as he alleges, nonetheless I dont currently think the way 
the bank initially handled the conflicting instructions from Mr S and Mrs O was fair - for these 
reasons: 
Ive thought carefully about Santanders case that they did nothing wrong since as 
Administrators Mr S and Mrs O were able separately and individually able to request the 
turning on and off the settings on the Service requiring joint authorisations for on-line 
payments. Ive considered too the case thats been made that in effect thats what happened 
until the bank took the decision to close Cs account. By then the bank had come to the 
realisation Mr S and Mrs Os actions demonstrated a breakdown in their relationship. However, in light of the phone calls from Mr S on 9 April 2020 it seems to me Santander 
were on notice at that point that there was an issue between the two directors and as C was 
their customer, I think it would have been fair and reasonable for the bank to begin taking 
appropriate steps to safeguard Cs position. 
I appreciate the bank had no way of determining whether what Mr S alleged on 9 April 2020 
was taking place between him and Mrs O was true. But its clear hed done what was 
necessary and appropriate to ensure both he and Mrs O acted together when it came to 
executing on-line transactions on Cs behalf. Nonetheless, on Mrs Os request Santander 
subsequently changed the settings on the Service so that she alone was able to authorise 
such transactions. In the circumstances Im minded to conclude that was unfair. And I am 
further minded reaching that conclusion having regard to the conversation that later took 
place between Santander and Mr S when on 16 April 2020, he called the bank after realising 
the instructions hed given on 9 April 2020 had been countermanded. 
When Mr S called the bank on 16 April 2020, he queried whether it was possible for a note 
to be put on the account requiring that both he and Ms O had to authorise future alterations 
to the settings on the Service. The employee to whom he spoke told him that Santander had 
internal security procedures when it came to such matters. The employee went on to explain 
that under those procedures when activating the joint authorisation settings on the Service, 
only one persons authority was needed because this amounted to an increase in the 
companys security platform. Whereas, as he further explained to reverse that setting the 
bank would have to speak to both the account signatories before acting because such a 
change would amount to a reduction in security and therefore expose the company to an 
increase in risk. 
Santander hasnt referred to that policy. But, in any event, in the circumstances of this case, 
it seems to me the procedure confirmed by the employee indicates good practice. 
After Mr Ss 9 April 2020 instruction that would have been the fair and reasonable way to 
proceed. In other words, I do not think the fair and reasonable thing to have done was simply 
to alter the settings on the Service without recourse to Mr S as Santander did. I propose 
finding therefore that, this amounted to unfair treatment of C. 
Mr S has asked for a refund of the charges C incurred for the operation of the Service from 
when it commenced to the date the account was closed. But Im not presently persuaded 
that is fair and reasonable, particularly since it hasnt been argued there was anything wrong 
with the functionality of the Service itself. 
I am sorry to learn of Mr Ss mental health condition. In the light of that, no doubt the events 
complained about would have been challenging for him. But Im not presently persuaded 
either that Santander should cover the cost of his mental health treatment. The letter from Mr 
Ss psychiatrist detailing his consultation which Mr S has submitted in support of his claim, is 
dated 15 March 2020. Therefore, it predates the events complained about. 
Also, l think its important to note that in this complaint the complainant is C, as the customer 
of Santander. C, is a limited company. So, when considering matters such as compensation, 
I must consider the impact on C the limited company. This means, in general I cannot 
consider or make an award for the impact or distress caused to its employees which Mr S is 
as a director. Rather I must look at the impact on the company itself which is C. 
All that being said, I am satisfied C was inconvenienced by Santanders actions. Thats 
because after 9 April 2020 Mr S had to go back to the bank to reinstate the settings on the 
Service that hed put in place and which the bank had subsequently reversed on Mrs Os 
instructions. 
When deciding the amount of compensation that is reasonable for that inconvenience, Ive 
taken into consideration that these events happened over a relatively short time frame of 
around a month. That is from 9 April 2020 when the settings were first changed to 5 May 2020 when Santander finally gave notice to close Cs account.  In the circumstances, I 
presently consider a payment of £250 to C is fair and reasonable
Responses to my provisional decision.
Both Santander and C have accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, and since there is no new evidence or arguments for me to consider that
might have led me to come to a different conclusion to that which I set out in my provisional
decision, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
In summary, Santander treated C unfairly when they altered the settings on the Service 
without first consulting Mr S. As a result, C was inconvenienced for which Santander should 
pay compensation 
My final decision
 My final decision is I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Santander UK Plc 
should pay C £250
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman