DRN-3091912
The complaint
Mr M complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund all the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
  
What happened
Mr M received a call from someone claiming to be from the fraud team of a third-party bank 
he had an account with. Unfortunately, we now know the caller was a scammer. 
The scammer told Mr M someone had been trying to use his account with the third-party 
bank at a location they knew he didnt live in. They said his account had been compromised 
and that he needed to transfer the balance of that account to a new account they were 
setting up for him, to keep it safe. Mr M says the scammer knew his name, the area he lived 
in and the sort code and account number for his account with the third-party bank. The 
number the call was from also appeared to be the correct number for the third-party bank. 
So Mr M believed the call was genuine.
Mr M first tried to transfer his balance to the new account using the third-party banks online 
banking, but the transfer was blocked. The scammer then asked if Mr M had any other 
accounts. And, when Mr M said he had an account with Metro, the scammer said he should 
transfer the money to the Metro account and then on to the new account. So Mr M made a 
series of payments, totalling £5,000, from his account with the third-party bank to his Metro 
account, and then from his Metro account to the new account.
Mr M says he was told the new account would show on his online banking with the third-
party bank in a few hours. But, when it wasnt showing, he realised it was a scam and 
contacted Metro to report it.
Metro is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the 
CRM code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
authorised push payment scams like this, except in limited circumstances. Metro 
investigated Mr Ms case but said one or more of those exceptions applies, specifically that 
Mr M had made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing they were legitimate. 
So it didnt think he was entitled to a full refund under the CRM code. But it did accept it 
hadnt done everything it could to help protect him, so refunded 50% of the money hed lost. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Metros response, so brought a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr Ms complaint and felt it should be upheld. They didnt 
think Metro had established that Mr M had made the payments without a reasonable basis 
for believing they were legitimate. So they felt Mr M met the requirements to be fully 
reimbursed under the CRM code and recommended Metro refund the remaining money hed 
lost. Metro disagreed with our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer even though they 
authorised the payment.
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Metro 
should have reimbursed Mr M under the provisions of the CRM code and whether it ought to 
have done more to protect him from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. The CRM 
code places a level of care on Mr M too, so Ive considered whether he met this.
The CRM code
As I mentioned above, Metro is a signatory to the CRM code. The CRM code requires firms 
to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish 
that a customer failed to meet their requisite level of care under one of the listed exceptions 
set out in the CRM code.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
othe payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
othe payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
othe person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr M have a reasonable basis for belief?
Metro has said that Mr M made the payments without a reasonable basis for believing they 
were legitimate. But I dont agree.
Mr M was called by someone claiming to be from a third-party bank he had an account with. 
The call appeared to be from a genuine number for that bank. And Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Mr M was aware scammers could spoof phone numbers in that way and hes said 
he checked the number while he was on the phone and it showing as a genuine number 
reassured him the call was legitimate.
Mr M says the caller also went through the same type of security questions he usually gets 
from the third-party bank, and knew his name, the area he lived in and his sort code and 
account number. Its possible the scammer had obtained this information from a link Mr M 
had clicked on in a text message hed received some time earlier. But Ive also not seen 
anything to suggest the text message or link Mr M followed didnt appear legitimate and the 
call from the scammer wasnt obviously connected to the text message. So I think its reasonable that the information the caller had will have further convinced Mr M the call was 
legitimate.
Metro has said the account Mr M ultimately sent the payments to from his Metro account 
wasnt with the third-party bank the caller said they were from. And that, as the caller said 
they had set the new account up for him, this should have caused Mr M some concern. But 
Mr M says he did ask the caller about this and was told the third-party bank was having 
technical issues at the moment, but that the new account was with the third-party bank and 
the records would be updated to show this shortly. And while this story may sound 
implausible to Metro, I can understand why someone like Mr M, who isnt familiar with 
banking processes, would be persuaded by what he was told. So I dont think its reasonable 
to say Mr M lacked a reasonable basis for belief because he accepted this explanation. 
Instead, I think its likely the explanation further reinforced his belief the call was legitimate.
Metro has also questioned why Mr M wasnt concerned when the caller told him the balance 
of his new account would be considerably less than the £5,000 he was transferring, and why 
Mr M didnt simply leave the money in his Metro account  which there was no reason to 
suspect was also compromised  instead of transferring it on to the new account. But Mr M 
says he was just trusting the caller at this point and thought the call was genuine, so didnt 
ask any further questions of what was happening. And I dont think its reasonable to say he 
lacked a reasonable basis for belief because he didnt question these issues either.
This was clearly a very sophisticated scam. The caller had called from a genuine-looking 
number and had built up trust with Mr M by knowing information about him and answering 
the queries he did raise. Mr M also says the caller was pushing him to do everything quickly, 
as he was told his account was at risk in the meantime. So, with hindsight, there are flags 
Mr M could have picked up on to spot that this was a scam. But I dont think its 
unreasonable that, in the moment, he didnt identify these or ask more questions of the 
caller. And so I think Mr M did have a reasonable basis for believing the caller was legitimate 
and that the payments he was making were genuine to safeguard his money.
Did Mr M ignore an effective warning?
Metro has accepted that no effective warnings were displayed when Mr M made the 
payments out of his Metro account and so refunded 50% of the money he lost. I therefore 
havent considered this exception any further.
Overall, Im not satisfied that any of the exceptions set out in the CRM code apply in this 
case. So I think Metro should have refunded the full amount Mr M lost under the provisions 
of the CRM code.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund Mr M the remaining £2,499.53 he lost as a result of this scam
Pay Mr M 8% simple interest on that refund from the date it initially rejected his claim 
until the date of settlement
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman