DRN-3599997
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about how AWP P&C SA dealt with their claim against their travel
insurance policy. Reference to AWP includes its agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs B had an annual travel insurance policy with AWP
which started on 1 January 2020. They planned a trip visiting a number of countries.
Their original departure and return dates were 14 February 2020 and 20 April 2020
respectively.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic. On
17 March 2020, the UK government advised against all but essential travel abroad and
on 23 March 2020, it advised all UK tourists abroad to return home. On 25 March 2020,
the government of the country Mr and Mrs B were in imposed lockdown.
On the advice of their travel provider, Mr and Mrs B returned their hired motorhome and
moved into other accommodation. The airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Bs flight to their
next destination which was planned for 16 April 2020. I understand that they returned
home on 24 May 2020.
Mr and Mrs B made a claim against their policy for additional and unused costs from
25 March 2020 onwards. They say that their trip was curtailed from that date. AWP
declined the claim. It said that the policy doesnt cover claims where a trip is cut short or
disrupted because of government imposed restrictions. Mr and Mrs B pursued their
complaint.
Mr and Mrs Bs travel provider settled their claim in part in that it refunded the costs of
unused accommodation and travel and additional return flights. Mr and Mrs Bs
remaining claim against the policy is for additional costs they incurred in extending their
stay, including additional accommodation costs, car hire and groceries. Mr and Mrs B
want AWP to settle this part of the claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Mr and Mrs Bs trip
was extended, not curtailed, which isnt covered by the policy. The investigator said that
what happened here didnt come within the travel delay provisions of the policy either.
He didnt think that AWP had acted unfairly in declining part of the claim.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. They said that their trip was curtailed as
the government of the country they were in imposed quarantine, which is covered by the
policy. The investigator considered what Mr and Mrs B said but didnt change his view.
Mr and Mrs B asked that an ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to
me to decide.
My provisional decision
On 15 June 2022, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated that Id 
come to the same view as our investigator but for slightly different reasons. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say as
follows:
Section D - Cancellation or curtailment
WHAT YOU ARE COVERED FOR
Up to £5,000
[]
Should you necessarily have to cancel the projected journey before commencement or
curtail it before completion as a result of:
1. The death, accidental bodily injury, illness, compulsory quarantine on the orders of
a treating doctor, redundancy that qualifies for payment under current redundancy
legislation, cancellation of leave for British Forces, police or government security
staff, summoning to jury service or witness attendance in a court of you or your
travelling companion.
[]
The insurer will pay either:
[]
2 For curtailment after initial departure; or from the date you were hospitalised as an
in- patient.
a A pro-rata proportion of non-refundable unused inclusive tour costs, or
b Alternatively the original value of non-refundable unused air tickets up to the sum insured
for any of the above reasons.
The insurer shall not pay (unless agreed in writing by or on behalf of the insurer) for
any claim directly or indirectly caused by, arising or resulting from, or in connection
with:
[]
5. []
b. Any costs for;
[]
iii food and drink expenses (unless these form part of your hospital costs if you are kept as
an in-patient).
[]
10 You travelling to a country, specific area or event to which the Travel Advice unit of the
British Foreign and Commonwealth Office or the World Health Organisation has advised
against travel, unless agreed by or on behalf of the insurer.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that AWP has a responsibility to handle claims
promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im not upholding
Mr and Mrs Bs complaint because I dont think that AWP treated them unfairly in declining
their claim in part. I say that because:
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation. An insurer 
will decide what risks its willing to cover and set these out in the terms and 
conditions of the policy document. The onus is on the consumer to show that their 
claim falls under one of the agreed areas of cover within the policy.Mr and Mrs Bs policy provides certain cover for cutting short a trip for specified 
reasons. Mr and Mrs D didnt cut short their trip; their trip was extended. Their 
original return date was 20 April 2020, but they returned on 24 May 2020. Theres 
no cover in the policy for extending their trip.
Mr and Mrs Bs contention is that their trip was effectively curtailed by the actions 
of the government of the country they were in. But thats not one of the listed 
reasons covered in the policy. Mr and Mrs B say that there was compulsory 
quarantine by the government of the country they were in. But the policy covers 
compulsory quarantine on the orders of a treating doctor. My understanding is that 
neither Mr nor Mrs B were treated by a doctor. The government imposed lockdown 
to which they were subject allowed essential personal movement and some 
outdoor exercise and recreation. I dont think thats equivalent to compulsory 
quarantine on the advice of a treating doctor, which is likely to be much more 
restrictive.
I think that, in the particular circumstances here, Mr and Mrs B could treat their trip 
as effectively curtailed on 23 March 2020, when the UK government advised its 
citizens to return to the UK. Whilst Mr and Mrs Bs policy doesnt cover them for 
curtailment arising out of changes to the advice of the Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Office (FCDO), theres an exclusion in the policy relating to claims 
arising from travel against the advice of the FCDO. There are some limited 
situations where, if I didnt think an insurer had clearly and transparently signposted 
a policyholder to certain policy exclusions such as an exclusion for claims for 
travelling against FCDO advice, I might think its fair and reasonable for an insurer 
to accept a claim outside of the policy terms and conditions. However, I dont think 
thats the case here and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Bs remaining claim is for additional costs they incurred, including 
additional accommodation costs, car hire and groceries. But AWP is only obliged 
to cover unused tour costs or unused flight costs, not additional costs. And theres 
a specific exclusion in relation to food and drink expenses. So, I dont think that 
AWP acted unfairly in declining these parts of Mr and Mrs Bs claim. There are no 
grounds on which I can fairly direct AWP to reimburse those costs.
The airline cancelled Mr and Mrs Bs flight to their next destination. When deciding 
what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case of this 
nature, wed generally consider the ultimate impact of the situation on the 
consumers. If Mr and Mrs B were unable to arrange an alternative flight, then the 
impact of the situation on them is the same as if the original flight was delayed, 
then cancelled. So, Ive also looked at the travel delay section of the policy. But 
that doesnt assist Mr and Mrs B here, as it doesnt cover delay caused by a 
pandemic or government restrictions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr and Mrs B nor AWP have provided any substantive response to my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached previously. So, for the 
reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think that AWP treated Mr and Mrs B 
unfairly or unreasonably in declining their claim. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman