DRN-2850464
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about Covea Insurance PLC (Covea) who declined a claim, under 
their property insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs R owned a property that they had rented out to tenants, until the tenants vacated 
it in February 2020. The property remained unoccupied and unfurnished and was put up for 
sale. The sale was agreed in March 2020, but due to the government restrictions at the time, 
the sale wasnt completed until August 2020. And therefore, during this time, the property 
was still Mr and Mrs Rs responsibility. 
When the new owners moved in, they discovered that there had been a leak. So, they 
contacted Mr and Mrs R to raise this, and asked them to address the problem. Mr and Mrs R 
contacted Covea who appointed a surveyor to assess the damage. Following this 
assessment, Covea declined the claim because of under occupancy of the property, as it 
had been unoccupied for around 170 days, during the sales process. 
Mr and Mrs R complained to Covea as they had been told by their contractor that the leak 
had started towards the end of the last tenancy and therefore before the 90 days had 
elapsed. As such, Mr and Mrs R wanted Covea to contribute towards the cost of the repairs 
that they had incurred of £12,150. 
In its final response, Covea said that the claim had been correctly declined, as Mr and Mrs 
Rs property hadnt been occupied from February 2020 until August 2020 and was a breach 
of the policy terms and conditions. Additionally, Mr and Mrs R had a duty to inform Covea of 
any changes to their policy, which they didnt do. Finally, it said that had the property not 
been empty, the damage couldve been discovered earlier, and something done to mitigate 
the loss. So, the claim remained declined.
Mr and Mrs R remained unhappy by this outcome and referred a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He 
didnt think that Covea had been unreasonable in declining the claim, based on the property 
being unoccupied. He thought the four conditions of the policy that Covea relied upon to 
decline the claim were fairly applied. And for those reasons, there was nothing further he 
could reasonably ask Covea to do. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt accept our investigators view. They said they were prevented from 
visiting the property because of the government restrictions at the time. And the extent of the 
damage as well as the professional opinion of their contractor was that the water leak had 
started when their tenants were still in the property probably towards the end of February. 
They accepted that they hadnt told Covea of the change of circumstances but believed that 
this didnt mean that the claim shouldve been declined. Finally, Mr and Mrs R said this 
services previous cases state that if any event happened before the defined period, then a 
claim should be met. So, they asked for a decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. I realise this will be a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs R, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive 
reached this decision.
Covea has relied upon a few elements within the policy to decline the claim, all of which I 
have considered. However, I only need to be satisfied that Covea fairly and reasonably 
declined the claim under one of those elements, to assess whether it has acted fairly 
towards Mr and Mrs R. Consequently, Ive concentrated on what I think is the crux of this 
complaint. I will concentrate on the issues of unoccupancy, the alternation of risk and the 
untenanted property. 
Based on the evidence before me, Mr and Mrs R confirmed that the tenants vacated the 
property in late February 2020 and the premises remained unoccupied until it was sold in 
August 2020. Covea calculated that the property was unoccupied for around 170 days, 
which exceeded the policy limit of 90 days unoccupancy. 
The policy provided: 
6. Unoccupancy
If you know that your property Is not going to be lived in by a tenant for more than 90 days
In a row, you must advise your broker Immediately, in order to provide us with
the opportunity to review the risk.
Covea also said that because the property was unoccupied, any damage caused (as a result 
of an escape of water) would not be paid for. The policy goes on to define what is meant by 
unoccupied which is: whenever the whole of the property is without a tenant in authorised 
residence for more than 90 consecutive days.
Covea said that had the property been occupied, and a leak had happened, the leak 
couldve been quickly isolated so that any damage would be lessened. But because the 
property was unoccupied for over 90 days, the leak wasnt discovered until much later.  
Given that the period of unoccupancy exceeded the 90-day limit, I dont think Covea were 
unreasonable to decline the claim for this reason.
Mr and Mrs R explained that Covea had changed the terms of the policy during the 
restrictions. They said that the guidance was on Coveas website and said that the 
requirement to occupy the property had been relaxed. I asked Covea what the new term 
provided and whether this term had been relaxed. It said that the guidance on its website 
said the following:
Where premises under our commercial and residentially let policies have had to become 
temporarily unoccupied due to Covid-19 restrictions announced by the government, brokers 
and customers will not have to advise us of the temporary unoccupied status of the property, 
and the existing level of cover  will continue for a period of 90 consecutive days from the 
date the premises was closed. 
Covea explained that this meant that where a property cant be occupied because of the 
restrictions, then customers or their brokers would not have to tell it. 
Mr and Mrs R believed that they didnt have to tell Covea that the property was unoccupied, 
because of this term. But, as Covea explained, the reason why the property was unoccupied was due to its sale and not due to the Covid-19 restrictions at the time, so this term didnt 
apply to Mr and Mrs Rs claim. And it would mean that they had to tell Covea that the 
property was unoccupied, which they didnt do.
I have next looked at the alteration of risk, which I think should be linked to the unoccupancy, 
as Covea said that the risk had altered due to the unoccupancy of the property. The policy 
provided: 
You or your broker must tell us immediately if during the period of the
insurance there is any alteration in risk or to the facts which you disclosed when you took
out this policy, which materially affects the risk of injury, loss, damage or liability which
would fall within the policy cover. This Includes but is not limited to alterations to the
business or the premises. 
There is no dispute that Mr and Mrs R didnt tell Covea or their broker that the property 
would be unoccupied or unfurnished. Covea said that Mr and Mrs R had a duty to let them 
know that if there were going to be any changes made since the start of their policy, 
otherwise this could affect their cover and result in a partial or no payment of their claim. It 
said that the reason for this was to allow them to assess the risk (especially where a 
property was unoccupied) and to apply additional terms and conditions or cancel the policy. 
I asked Covea to provide me with evidence as to what its position would have been had Mr 
and Mrs R told it that the property was to be unoccupied during the process of its sale. 
Covea has shown me this and Im satisfied that it wouldnt have offered cover had it known 
that the property would be unoccupied whilst it was awaiting its sale. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs R felt that this shouldnt have been a reason why their claim 
was declined. But, having reviewed the terms and conditions of the policy and Coveas 
underwriting criteria, I think that Covea were not unreasonable to have declined the claim for 
this reason. 
I have next considered whether Covea were unfair to have declined the claim as the 
property was untenanted. The policy provides: 
5. Untenanted Property
Whenever the property Is untenanted for more than 14 consecutive days then you must:
(a) Inspect the property Internally at least once a week; 
(b) during the months of October-March Inclusive turn off the water at the mains and
drain the system or leave the central heating system in full operation to maintain a
minimum temperature of at least 10 degrees Celsius throughout the property.
The property was untenanted from the end of February. Mr and Mrs Rs policy provided that 
where the property was to be untenanted for more than 14 days, it must be inspected. I have 
examined this further to see what this means. Covea explained that this would mean that the 
property would either be inspected by Mr and Mrs R or by their agent. The inspection would 
also have to include checking the water supply to the property amongst other things. 
There was around one month before the government restrictions came into force and the 
property was untenanted. Then a few months before the property was next due to be 
occupied. Mr and Mrs R have not provided any evidence to show that the property was 
inspected in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy, either during that first 
month or subsequently. 
Mr and Mrs R said that they were unable to inspect the property due to the restrictions but 
provided details of viewings that had taken place between 6  10 March and a valuation that took place on the 23 March. All the dates, pre-date the government restrictions. And Mr and 
Mrs R havent provided me with any further evidence to show that these visits were actually 
inspection visits. 
In addition, I have checked the regulations at the time. Changes to government advice 
meant that it was possible to be able to travel to second or unoccupied homes to undertake 
necessary checks from around May 2020. Also, there were breaks when restrictions were 
eased, again allowing Mr and Mrs R or their agent opportunities to carry out inspections, 
again from May 2020 to around early July 2020 . But these were not done. 
Consequently, Im satisfied that the viewings and valuations that Mr and Mrs R relied upon, 
were not inspection visits. And no other inspection visits were carried out during the 
restrictions (as was permitted by the government) or when those restrictions eased. So, I 
dont think that Covea were unreasonable to rely upon this condition to decline the claim.
Finally, Mr and Mrs R said that previous decisions from this service indicate that if an event 
happened before the defined period (i.e. the 90 days), then a claim should be met. Whilst I 
accept there are cases like this with regards to unoccupancy, each case is unique and is 
considered on its own merits. Our aim is to always examine the evidence to arrive at a 
decision that is both fair and reasonable depending on the circumstances of that case.  
I fully appreciate that this is not the outcome that Mr and Mrs R wouldve liked, and I am 
sorry to disappoint them. But I think Covea has applied the policy terms fairly and I cant 
reasonably ask Covea to do anything more to resolve this complaint. And if Mr and Mrs R 
had let Covea know the property wouldnt be occupied, it wouldnt have provided cover, I 
dont think it acted unfairly in declining a claim there would have been no cover in place for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons given.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman