DRN-2301918
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wrongly told him it would not approve his mortgage 
unless he took out two insurance protection plans as well  in 2003.
What happened
One of these plans was a form of Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) and has been 
investigated as a separate complaint.
This complaint concerns a policy providing life and critical illness insurance.
An investigator at this service did not feel Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She said shed 
not seen sufficient, persuasive evidence to conclude that the advisor had told Mr M this plan 
was compulsory i.e. a condition of his mortgage.
She therefore assessed whether the non-compulsory recommendation had been suitable 
given Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. In her view, the evidence indicated that Mr M 
had not wanted or needed life insurance but that he had a need for critical illness cover to 
help pay his mortgage in such life-threatening circumstances.
Crucially, however, Mr Ms monthly premiums were solely designed to pay for the critical 
illness cover, with the life insurance being provided free. She said this was not unusual and 
meant that while Mr M hadnt needed the life cover he had not been charged for it or 
disadvantaged by its inclusion.
Mr M did not accept that he had not been charged separately for life cover in addition to 
critical illness and enclosed bank statements showing two separate direct debits. Santander 
said that one referred to his PPI plan and the other to his critical illness (with free life cover) 
plan.
Having sought further information, the investigator was satisfied this was correct i.e. Mr M 
had not paid separately for a life insurance plan. Given this, she still did not believe this 
complaint should be upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons.
My role is to decide if there is sufficient, persuasive evidence to fairly conclude that a 
business did something wrong. And in this case I dont believe there is such evidence.
I acknowledge that Mr M strongly recalls that the advisor misled him by saying these two 
policies were a pre-condition of his mortgage but this is not supported by the available 
documentation. So while I cannot be certain about what was said at the time, there is simply 
not enough evidence to conclude that the advisor did claim the policies were compulsory.
Further, the evidence indicates that the two direct debits were to pay for Mr Ms PPI policy, 
the subject of a separate complaint, and this critical illness (with life cover) plan. Santander 
has confirmed that the life cover was included free of charge  something which is quite 
common  and Ive seen no hard evidence to question this.
So, for the reasons the investigator outlined, there is not sufficient evidence to conclude that 
Santander did anything wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman