DRN-4503450
The complaint
Mr S complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) hasnt paid the full cost of his claim, when his 
motorbike was damage in a collision whilst he was driving in Europe, under his roadside 
assistance policy.
What happened
Mr S was involved in an accident whilst riding his motorbike on a touring holiday through 
Europe. He contacted AWP and it arranged for the repatriation of his motorbike to the UK. 
Mr S wanted to continue with his touring holiday, but AWP said it couldnt arrange for a 
replacement motorbike. He says he was told to arrange this himself and the cost would be 
covered by his policy. 
Mr S says he managed to arrange a replacement motorbike. He continued with his holiday 
and arranged for the rental motorbike to be returned when he arrived at his final destination, 
before returning home. Mr S claimed for the motorbike rental, the cost of returning it to the 
rental business, as well as his transport costs for getting home. 
Mr S says his losses amount to £4,160.22, which should be covered by his policy. But he 
says he only received £1,679.18. Mr S received an email from AWP saying his policy limits 
vehicle rental costs to £80 per day for up to 14 days. He disputed this but says he hasnt 
received a substantive response and no further payment has been made. 
AWP emailed Mr S in March 2023 confirming it would contact him about his complaint. It 
provided his referral rights to our service in this email. 
Mr S subsequently referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint. 
No information was provided by AWP, so he considered the matter based on the policy 
documentation Mr S provided. He didnt think the policy limited the daily rental cover in the 
way AWP had stated. Because of this he says it should pay Mr S the remainder of his claim 
costs, plus £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
AWP acknowledged receipt of our investigators findings but didnt respond to accept the 
outcome. 
As an agreement wasnt reached the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. Let me explain. 
Ive read the policy terms and conditions Mr S has supplied. This confirms theres cover for 
the repatriation of his motorbike if it cant be repaired in continental Europe, or if the repairs 
wont be completed before his intended return date. Based on Mr Ss testimony this is what 
happened here. His motorbike was returned to the UK as the repairs couldnt be completed 
in Europe in line with the policy terms. 
The section of the policy terms entitled, Replacement transport says:
Wherever possible we will attempt to provide you with a replacement motorcycle from the 
repairing authorised [motorbike manufacturer] Retailer. If we are unable to do so then a 
vehicle will be sourced through one of the major rental companies and you must be able to 
comply with their conditions of hire.
Mr S wanted to continue with his holiday through Europe and so needed a replacement 
motorbike. Ive read the remainder of the policy terms and conditions, including the 
exclusions. But there is no reference to a limit on the daily cost of a replacement vehicle or 
the time period. Ive seen the email Mr S received from AWP on 1 September 2022. This 
says hes only entitled to £80 per day for 14 days of rental. It says it can only reimburse him 
with £1,120 for the vehicle rental. But it hasnt shown where this limitation is stated in its 
policy. 
We asked AWP to provide its account of Mr Ss complaint as well as relevant supporting 
information. But it didnt respond. I have no reason to doubt Mr Ss testimony. I note what he 
says about being told to arrange motorbike hire himself and that the cost would be covered. 
Based on the policy information Mr S provided, he had cover in place for AWP to provide 
replacement transport in these circumstances. 
Based on this evidence I agree with our investigator that AWP should cover Mr Ss 
remaining claim costs. There is no reference to a limit on cost or duration for the 
replacement motorbike. I dont think Mr S behaved unreasonably in arranging the transport 
he did. So, I dont think AWP treated him fairly in limiting its payment in the way it did. This 
has no doubt caused Mr S inconvenience and some distress. To acknowledge this AWP 
should pay him £100 compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AWP P&C SA should:
settle the remainder of Mr Ss claim costs in line with the policy terms and conditions; 
and 
pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2024.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman