DRN-2789361
The complaint
Miss P is unhappy The Co-operative Bank Plc (The Co-op) hasnt refunded her the money 
she lost through a scam.
What happened
The details of this case have been clearly set out by our investigator - when she wrote to the 
bank upholding Miss Ps complaint. As such, the facts are well-known to both parties, so 
I dont need to repeat them at length here. In summary:
On 6 December 2019, Miss P was tricked into sending a scammer a Faster 
Payments transfer in the sum of £870.90, that being the full credit balance of her 
Co-op current account at the time.
Shortly afterwards, she was tricked into sending a second payment of £338 from her 
Co-op privilege account.
Miss P made both payments in the belief that her Co-op accounts were at risk and 
that she was acting to protect her money. This belief was based on a text message 
and telephone call shed received, both purporting to originate with Co-op.
The call and text message both utilised a genuine Co-op number (a scam technique 
known as number spoofing).
Prior to the main scam call, Miss P had noticed she had a missed call on her phone 
which appeared to be from a Co-op bank phone number (in reality this missed call 
was also from the scammer). Shed then called Co-op to find out what the missed call 
had been about - but she hadnt been able to stay on hold for long enough to speak 
to a call-handler. Seemingly fortuitously, Miss P received a call back a short time 
later purportedly from Co-op. Again, this appeared to originate from the Co-ops 
number but in reality, was the scammer  and during this call the scam was 
perpetrated.
The caller knew several details about her, helping persuade Miss P that the call was 
genuinely from her bank.
Co-op says it displayed a scam warning before Miss P made the transfers, but that 
because Miss P had chosen the incorrect payment reason (a friend or family 
member) this hadnt been particularly relevant to the scam.
Miss P was told by the scammer that an appointment would be made for her at a 
Co-op branch later. When she visited the branch, she explained what had happened, 
and the scam came to light. Co-op attempted to retrieve the funds, but only the 
nominal sum of £0.90 remained in the recipient account. 
It appears the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM) should be a relevant 
consideration here. The CRM Code is a voluntary scheme Co-op signed up to from the 
outset of December 2019, and which is designed to reimburse customers that have fallen 
victim to a scam. The starting position under the CRM Code is for a customer to be 
refunded. A firm might choose not to refund if it establishes that a customer hasnt met their 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. In making such an assessment, a firm may 
consider whether it can establish that the customer:
ignored an effective warning;
made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing that it was for 
legitimate purposes; or
has been grossly negligent.
While not explicitly commenting on whether or not it had considered Miss Ps complaint 
under the CRM Code, Co-op declined to refund her. It didnt accept it was at fault. It thought 
that when Miss P had called it (after receiving the initial missed call) she ought to have held 
on waiting until she could speak to one of its staff  and that she is at fault for abandoning 
that call. Co-op also thought it would have given a more relevant scam warning had Miss P 
chosen a more appropriate payment reason than she did. Lastly Co-op didnt think Miss P 
had conducted sufficient checks prior to making the payments.
Miss P brought her complaint to our service as she was unhappy with Co-ops decision. One 
of our investigators looked into it and recommended the complaint be upheld. 
Our investigator, firstly, thought Co-op hadnt established a failure by Miss P to meet her 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. She considered the warning messages Co-op 
referred to in its submissions, but she found Co-op had not been able to establish that Miss 
P had ignored an effective warning. The investigator found Miss P would reasonably have 
thought the warning Co-op displayed didnt apply to her situation, given the specific 
circumstances of the scam and given that the warning made specific reference to someone 
you met on social media or a dating site has asked you to transfer money which wasnt 
relevant here.
The investigator thought Miss P had a reasonable basis for believing she was acting to 
protect her money in the circumstances of the scam, and that she was following the 
instructions of her bank. In particular, the investigator highlighted that the scam call had used 
number spoofing, as had a previous missed call and a text message, all of which appeared 
as if they had originated from Co-op. 
The investigator thought that, if had the case been fairly considered under the CRM Code, 
Co-op ought to have fully reimbursed Miss P at the time she made her claim.
Irrespective of reimbursement under the CRM Code, the investigator explained that she also 
thought the first payment sufficiently unusual (given in particular that Miss P was sending the 
entire balance of her current account to a new payee) that Co-op ought to reasonably have 
had concerns that Miss P might be at risk of financial harm. She thought it ought to have 
intervened at the time as a result. The investigator thought that if Co-op had taken the steps 
she believed it should have, the scam would have been identified (as it was when Miss P 
later visited the branch). That would have meant both payments would have been prevented 
and Miss P would not have suffered the loss she did.
Therefore, the investigator said Co-op should now settle Miss Ps complaint by fully 
refunding the total amount Miss P had lost together with interest on this sum at the simple 
rate of 8% a year from the date of the two payments to the date of settlement. 
The investigators findings were sent to both parties on 29 January 2021 with a deadline for 
responding of 12 February 2021. Co-op replied with an offer to refund Miss P half her losses 
but Miss P declined to accept that offer. 
Our investigator explained this to Co-op on 18 February 2021. The investigator further 
explained that her original view stood, and that Co-op should now either settle the matter in 
line with her original assessment or have the matter decided by an ombudsman. Unfortunately, over two months later, Co-op has yet to respond - despite the investigators 
prompting on more than one occasion. As such, the case has been escalated to me for a 
final decision to avoid any further delay in the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. 
Our statutory rules provide  at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision on the basis of what has been supplied and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information requested; 
Taking account of whats happened to date, Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence of 
any further response from Co-op to the investigators restatement of her opinion on 18 
February, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we already have.
I agree with the investigator that - had Co-op fairly reviewed this matter under the CRM 
Code - Miss P ought to have been fully reimbursed. In doing so, Ive considered whether or 
not Miss P met her requisite level of care under the CRM Code. I believe she did, and for 
substantively the same reasons the investigator has already explained, so it would have 
been fair and reasonable for Miss P to have received a full refund at the time.
Furthermore, I agree with the investigator that in any event, even were the provisions of the 
CRM Code not applicable to these transactions, Miss P ought still to have been reimbursed. 
I agree with the investigators findings that Co-op should have taken further steps when Miss 
P attempted to make the first payment and that in doing so, Co-op would have prevented the 
scam as a whole. I believe Co-op ought thereby to have prevented these losses, for 
substantively the same reasons as the investigator has already explained. I do not agree 
with Co-op that Miss Ps abandoned call transfers this liability  it was for Co-op to have 
taken sufficient steps to reassure itself that Miss P wasnt about to fall victim to a fraud, and I 
am not satisfied it did so.
For the avoidance of doubt, and again in line with the broad conclusions already reached by 
the investigator, I dont consider Miss P should bear some responsibility by way of 
contributory negligence. It is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the two 
payments she was still totally in the dark and believed she was acting to protect her money 
and in accordance with the instructions of her bank. I consider that a consequence of the 
scammers persuasiveness and the sophistication of the scam as a whole. Neither do I 
consider her actions to have been unreasonable when taking account of all the 
circumstances at the time.
So, I find it would be fair and reasonable for Co-op to redress the loss Miss P incurred in 
making these two payments. The money was taken principally from her current account and 
a smaller sum from her Co-op privilege account. It is not clear how Miss P would have used 
the money if the Co-op had refunded it when it should have done, so Co-op should also pay 
interest on the money she lost at 8% simple per year from the date of the scam payments to 
the date of settlement.
 
Putting things rightFor the reasons set out by the investigator and above, Ive decided that Miss P ought 
reasonably to have been fully refunded. I therefore direct The Co-operative Bank Plc to pay 
Miss P:
 the full amount of the money she lost as a result of the scam less any sums the bank 
has already been able to return to Miss P. It should do so within 28 days of receiving 
notification of Miss Ps acceptance of my final decision; plus,
 interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Miss P made each payment to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ps complaint about The Co-operative Bank Plc, as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman