The complaint
Mr W complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) trading as Mini 
Financial Services charged him £86.83 when he paid off a loan early. He would like an 
explanation of what the fee was for. And a refund of it.
 What happened
Mr  W says in March 2019 he wanted to buy a car. He says in the process of doing this the 
sales person advised him if he took out a Hire Purchase Agreement he would benefit from a 
£1,000 discount on the car.
Mr W says he questioned if there would be any charges if he paid the loan off early. And was 
assured there wouldn't be. And that he was told not to repay the loan within the first 14 days 
as this would count as a cancellation so he would lose the discount.
Mr W says on that basis he went ahead with the Hire Purchase Agreement. He says the took 
delivery of the car on 30 March 2019. Then he called BMWFS on 20 April 2019 to repay the 
money. He says he expected to pay £7,000 but BMWFS told him he owed £7,086.63 but 
didn't explain what the £86.63 was for.
BMWFS said there was no evidence to support Mr W was told there would be no charges if 
he repaid the loan early. And confirmed he could have withdrawn from the agreement within 
the 14 day cooling off period.
Our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. She found that it was likely that the  fact interest 
of up to 60 days would be payable if the loan was repaid in the first month would have been 
discussed at the point of sale. And she noted that Mr W had benefited financially from 
getting a discount on the car in taking out the Hire Purchase Agreement. She wasn't able to 
give a breakdown of the £86.63 as the business hadn't provided this.
BMWFS accepted this view but Mr W didn't. Our investigator was then able to provide a 
breakdown of the £86.63 for Mr W to consider. She said this comprised of 58 days of interest 
that BMWFS was able to charge under consumer credit legislation.
Mr W accepted how the figure had been arrived at. But said he had asked, and had been 
advised, during the sale process that there would be no charges.
Based on the further information from BMWFS and Mr W's rejection of her first view our 
investigator issued a second view. She found that BMWFS were entitled to charge the 58 
days interest. She noted that the finance agreement made no reference to any payment on 
early settlement of the agreement. She felt even if Mr W had been made aware of the 
DRN-1397697charge he would have still gone ahead with the agreement as he benefited financially from 
the £1,000 discount.
Mr W didn't accept this further view. He acknowledged if he had been aware of the charge 
he would have probably still have gone ahead with the agreement. He said if he had realised 
the implication of settling the agreement when he did he would have repaid the loan at the 
earliest opportunity which would likely have incurred a lesser fee. He felt the complaint had 
become unnecessarily complicated. And felt BMWFS could repay the £86.63 as a simple 
gesture of goodwill.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I don't think there is any dispute that BMWFS charged Mr W 58 days of interest totalling 
£86.63 when he chose to end his Hire Purchase Agreement early. I understand Mr W has 
made the payment but would like a refund as he says he was assured there would be no fee 
to pay if he ended the agreement early.
From what Mr W has told us he out the Hire Purchase Agreement as it attracted a £1,000 
discount on the price of the car. And he always intended to pay the agreement off early. I 
have no reason to disbelieve this since he did settle the agreement a month after taking it 
out.
The issue is that Mr W says the salesperson told him if he waited a month he wouldn't incur 
any charges if he then paid the loan off in full.  But if he cancelled the agreement within a 
month this would be taken as withdrawing from the agreement and he would then  lose the 
benefit of the discount. 
I have no evidence to support what the sales person told Mr W. Its always difficult when a 
consumer has to rely on a conversation to support their case and I do appreciate that. 
Mr W has told us the salesperson showed him online a reference in the agreement showing 
him the agreement could be ended at any time.  I've read the agreement Mr W signed. This 
states the right to withdraw from the agreement within 14 days - in that case the full amount 
of the loan needed to be repaid in addition to  daily interest oft £1.15 per day.
The information in the agreement on early repayment says this can be done at anytime -I 
think this is likely to be the information the sales person showed Mr W online. It doesn't 
make any reference there, or anywhere else in the contract that I can see, of charging 
interest of 58 days for repayment within the first month or so.
As Mr W paid off the loan in full I can't see why he wouldn't have done that earlier if that had 
been an option. He clearly had the funds to do so. So I am inlined to believe he was advised 
not to do this as this might affect the discount. 
I appreciate our investigator spoke to the dealership - the salesperson who Mr W dealt with 
is no longer there. But another member of staff explained that if a consumer asks about early 
repayment the fact the agreement is interest bearing for up to 58 days is always explained. I 
am sure that should be the correct process.
Consumer credit legislation does allow for the 58 day charge to be made on early 
settlement. when a contract is for twelve months or more as is the case here.  So 
BMWFS haven't done anything wrong in making this charge. But I not convinced that Mr W was made aware of this
When something goes wrong we look to put a consumer back in the position they would 
have been in - in this case had Mr W been given the correct information.  If BMWFS had 
made Mr W aware of a charge for ending the contract early I think Mr W would still have 
gone ahead with the contract. This is on the basis that the reduction on the cost of the car of 
£1,000 was considerably more than the £86.63 charge he incurred.
So I appreciate Mr W's frustration that BMWFS made a charge it was entitled to make that 
Mr W wasn't expecting. But  as a result Mr W hasn't suffered any overall financial loss. So  I 
don't feel in this situation it is appropriate to ask BMWFS to refund the charge Mr W 
incurred. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July  2020.
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman