DRN-3517447
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Lloyds Bank UK PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a package bank 
account.
What happened
On 14 January 2017 Ms Bs account was changed from an Additions Active account to a 
Barclays bank account including both Tech and Travel packs. 
Ms B says she was not aware that the Tech and Travel Packs had been added to her 
account or that she would have to pay a fee for them. Ms B says she was mis-sold this 
account.
One of our Adjudicators considered Ms Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. As 
Ms B disagreed this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms Bs account changed from an Additions Active account to a Barclays bank account 
with Tech and Travel pack a sale did not take place. Instead Barclays had decided it would 
no longer be offering the Additions Active account to customers and therefore migrated its 
customers across to accounts that most closely matched the existing benefits offered by the 
accounts they held at the time.
The migration of accounts in this way is common practice and considered to be a fair 
commercial decision. However, we would expect Barclays to give notice of the change and 
make the options available to Ms B clear.
To support Barclays following the correct processes it has provided a copy of the letters it 
sent to Ms B at the time her account was changed.
On 29 September 2016 Barclays sent Ms B a letter explaining her account would be 
changing from an Additions Active account to a Barclays Bank account with a Tech and 
Travel pack on 13 January 2017. The letter explained the fees that would apply, that the 
change would be automatic unless Ms B got in touch, and that she had the option to take the 
account without any packs, and no fees would be payable. 
On 20 January 2017 Barclays sent Ms B a second letter explaining her account had been 
changed and the fees that applied. The letter also stated:
Packs are optional, so you can remove Tech Pack or Travel Pack or add other Packs at any 
time.
Ms B says she doesnt recall receiving these letters, but I see no reason why either of the 
letters would not have been received by Ms B. The first letter gave more than three months 
notice of the change to Ms Bs account so I think she had fair notice this was going to 
happen, and the confirmation letter would have acted as a reminder of the change.
Ms B has also explained that she has a busy lifestyle so isnt always able to go through her 
bank statements and so didnt realise the charges until more recently. Ms B feels its unfair 
that she was paying for the Tech and Travel packs when she already had insurance 
elsewhere for her phone and did not travel. But Barclays has no obligation to check how the 
benefits of the account are being used. As previously explained Barclay sent the correct 
documentation explaining the benefits, changes, and charges for the account.
Overall, I think Barclays met its obligations when Ms Bs account migrated to an account that 
included both Tech and Travel packs, and it didnt need to do anything more.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman