DRN-4146442
The complaint
Mr C has complained, via a representative, that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to
act on a signed third-party authorisation (TPA) letter sent in August 2019, which allowed the
representative to act on behalf of Mr C, pending a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPOA) being
granted.
Once the LPOA was granted, Mr Cs representative says that a copy of the LPOA was sent 
to Barclays in February 2020, but Barclays says it never received it. The representative then
sent another LPOA in January 2021, and Barclays subsequently registered the LPOA in its
records.
During this time, Mr Cs account went overdrawn. Mr Cs representative says that Barclays
proceeded to repeatedly call him about the overdrawn balance that had built up on Mr Cs
account. However, Barclays was unable to discuss the matter with the representative, due to
the lack of either a TPA or LPOA being registered in its records for Mr C.
What happened
Barclays issued its final response letter, and it didnt think it had done anything wrong,
although it did agree to pay Mr Cs representative £300 compensation due to how long it
took to investigate matters.
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and they didnt think that Barclays should
do anything more than what it had already agreed to do.
Mr Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 28 April 2023 explaining why I thought Barclays should 
pay more compensation to Mr C. I have included an extract of my provisional decision 
below, and it forms a part of this decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I currently think that Barclays didnt deal with the matter 
fairly, and therefore Im currently minded to uphold this complaint in part. I will explain 
why.
Who can we award compensation to?
Having looked through everything that has been provided, I can see that Mr Cs
representative does not believe the £300 compensation offered by Barclays 
reasonably reflects the impact this matter has had on him.
I do appreciate that dealing with this matter, which started in August 2019, has been 
difficult for Mr Cs representative. I can see he has had to direct a large amount of 
time and effort into communicating with Barclays and administering Mr Cs finances. 
And I also recognise that it wouldve been distressing for him to receive a number of 
phone calls from Barclays, calling up about the outstanding balance on Mr Cs 
account, but was then unable to speak to Barclays about Mr Cs account.
However, this complaint is specifically about Barclays handling of Mr Cs affairs.
That means, for the purposes of this complaint, the eligible complainant is Mr C  not 
his representative.
This is an important distinction to make, because we can only award compensation 
(if its warranted) to eligible complainants. But we cant generally make any awards of
compensation for any distress or inconvenience experienced by a representative (or 
other family members) of an eligible complainant.
So, as explained by the adjudicator, although Barclays can choose to offer the
representative compensation, I wouldnt be able to award compensation for any 
distress or inconvenience caused to the representative (even if I thought some was 
warranted) in relation to this matter, as he is not an eligible complainant.
This means Im limited to only consider what impact, if any, this matter has had on Mr 
C directly.
Third Party Authority request
In August 2019, Mr C sent Barclays a signed letter asking for his address to be 
updated to that of his representative. He also provided his representatives mobile 
phone number and explained that he had applied for his representative to be a 
Power of Attorney. And Mr C gave his authority to Barclays to speak with the 
representative about his accounts until the LPOA was granted.
Barclays acknowledges receiving this letter, as reflected by Barclays changing Mr Cs
address and telephone numbers to the representatives. However, in its final 
response letter, Barclays said that it was unable to give the representative any 
authority over Mr Cs accounts as requested - due to not receiving any relevant 
paperwork to set up a registered authority.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont think Barclays dealt with the TPA request 
reasonably.
It was clear from the letter that Mr C had given his authority for the representative to 
act on his behalf. And  if it was necessary that certain paperwork be completed  
Barclays shouldve helped Mr C by sending him the relevant forms that needed 
completing. As far as I can see this paperwork was not sent out, and Barclays 
essentially ignored the request.
In my view, Barclays failure to assist Mr C in setting up a TPA meant that itd 
become more difficult for Mr C to manage his accounts  bearing in mind that the 
reason hed asked for the TPA in the first place was because he was suffering from ill 
health. Mr Cs representative has explained that Mr C was distressed by the fact that 
Barclays had not set up the TPA on his account as requested. This added further 
distress to Mr C because, due to his medical condition, he was unable to recall his 
online banking details, which meant that the account was essentially operating of its 
own accord i.e. only automated payments were leaving the account.As such, I think that Barclayss failure to respond to Mr Cs TPA request in a useful 
manner did cause Mr C some distress and inconvenience. And based on what I have 
seen, and what the representative has said about Mr Cs circumstances, I currently 
think a reasonable award to reflect the impact it had on Mr C (not his representative) 
is £300. This is to reflect the frustration caused by his request not being actioned. But 
also to reflect the initial distress caused to Mr C in the knowledge that his finances 
were essentially left to flounder, given that neither he (due to ill health) nor his 
representative (due to the TPA request not being actioned) were in a position to be 
able to fully manage his finances.
Of course, I have considered whether this award should be higher, however the
representative says that it was decided not to keep Mr C updated with what was 
happening with his account, so as to prevent him from suffering further distress. As 
such, whilst Mr C clearly did experience some distress initially, from what I have 
seen, I cant reasonably say that Mr C experienced ongoing distress due to Barclays 
failure to assist Mr C in setting up a TPA on the account.
Im also mindful that Mr Cs medical condition and change in circumstances would,
regardless of the issues he had with Barclays, be very distressing  both for him and 
his family. However, when considering how much redress is due, I have to be mindful 
that I cant hold Barclays responsible for any distress that Mr C wouldve naturally 
experienced because of his sudden deterioration in his health. It is for these reasons 
that I currently think that awarding Mr C £300 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by Barclays not assisting him in setting up an TPA in August 2019 is 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Original LPOA not received
I note that the representative says that a LPOA was eventually obtained and then 
sent to Barclays in February 2020. Barclays says that had it been received, it 
wouldve been passed on internally to the relevant department. However, Barclays 
has no record of the LPOA documentation being received around February 2020. 
And in the circumstances, I cant rule out the possibility that it was lost in the post. It 
therefore follows that I cant hold Barclays responsible because the LPOA was not 
set up in early 2020.
Impacts on the account
After itd been established that Barclays had not received the LPOA, the 
representative obtained a further copy. From the evidence I have been provided with, 
the representative obtained a copy in October 2020 and submitted it to Barclays in 
January 2021. Barclays then processed the LPOA and it was registered on Mr Cs 
profile in February 2021.
Unfortunately, in that time, due to no money being credited into the account, the 
overdraft was eventually removed in September 2020. This had the knock-on effect 
that the automated payments that had been set up on the account were then being 
returned unpaid from October 2020 onwards.
One of those payments was for an insurance policy. I understand that the 
representative was fortunately able to get the policy reinstated with the insurer, once 
the premiums were made up to date.
The representative has said that not having access to the account for so long had a 
number of other impacts. For example, the representative says that Mr C had no access to the funds in the account and could not deposit funds into the account from 
a pension, due to having no access to the account. The representative also says that 
one of the payments that got cancelled was for an investment in wine. The 
representative says that, because of non-payment to the organisation who held the 
wine, the wine was taken out of storage (by which stage it was beyond its 
recommended drinking date) and sold off at a greatly reduced price.
Having considered everything, it seems that a large part of the issues caused  
especially with the payments being returned unpaid - was because of the amount of 
time it took the representative to provide another copy of the LPOA to Barclays. I 
appreciate that a lot of the events referred to occurred during the pandemic, and so 
the representative mayve had difficulties obtaining the relevant documents. But 
equally I cant hold Barclays responsible for the delays that the representative 
experienced. And I think that Barclays allowed a reasonable amount of time for 
another LPOA to be resubmitted, before it eventually took action regarding the ever 
increasing overdrawn balance by eventually removing the overdraft - which in turn 
resulted in payments not being made.
As such, whilst Im sorry to hear about the difficulties that Mr C experienced, and I do 
think that Barclays didnt handle the initial request for a TPA correctly, in the 
circumstances I dont think I can reasonably hold Barclays responsible for the 
consequences of the delay in the LPOA documentation being sent to Barclays. 
Indeed, the representative has explained that once the LPOA document was 
submitted, the various departments within Barclays dealt with the process in a 
reasonable fashion.
Therefore, in summary, from what I can see about the turn of events, it seems that 
the bulk of the distress and inconvenience was experienced by the representative(s) 
in trying to get matters sorted, and rather than by Mr C directly. But that said, I do 
think Barclays couldve handled Mr Cs initial TPA request better, and I do think that 
some distress and inconvenience was caused directly to Mr C by Barclays poor 
handling of the request.
Putting matters right
Based on what Ive seen so far, Im currently minded to say that, in addition to the 
redress that Barclays has already agreed to pay the representative, Barclays should 
pay Mr C £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him in 
this matter.
After issuing my provisional decision, neither Barclays nor Mr Cs representative responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything, as neither party has provided any further information, I see 
little reason to reach a different outcome to the one I reached in my provisional decision.
As such, in summary, I think that Barclays shouldve done more when Mr C first contacted 
Barclays to give his authority for Barclays to speak with his representative about his 
finances. And I think that Barclays failure to do this caused Mr C to experience distress and inconvenience as a result of his request not being actioned (i.e. for failing to explain that 
further paperwork will need to be completed for the TPA request to be set up).
Putting things right
In addition to the redress that Barclays has already agreed to pay Mr Cs representative, I 
require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mr C £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him in this matter.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint 
and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to do what I have set out above, to put matters right, in 
full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, via his 
representative, to accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman