DRN-2967486
The complaint
Mr K complains that BISL Limited wouldnt change his cover on his motor insurance policy
from comprehensive, to third party, fire and theft (TPFT).
Any reference I make to BISL also includes its agents.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 26 July 2021  I wanted to give both parties 
the chance to respond with any additional information or comments they wanted me to 
consider. I said that if I didnt get anything that would change my view of this case, then my 
final decision would likely be along the same lines as my provisional decision.
I have copied my provisional decision below  it also forms part of this final decision. 
What happened
Mr K took out a comprehensive cover motor insurance policy with BISL on 16 July 2019
during a phone call  the cover started on 18 July 2019. The premium was £512.50 for the
year.
On 14 February 2020, Mr K got in touch with BISL and asked to reduce the level of cover on
his policy to TPFT because he was going to be out of the country for a few months and
wouldnt be using the car during this time. BISL told Mr K that it couldnt reduce the level of
cover he had because it only offered comprehensive cover  and it only offered all its
customers comprehensive cover.
Mr K wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to BISL. BISL sent its response to Mr K
on 10 March 2020 and confirmed the same again  that it didnt offer a lower level of cover
and so it couldnt reduce the level of cover on Mr Ks policy.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint too. But he didnt think BISL had done anything
wrong. He said that BISL didnt offer the type of cover Mr K had asked for and so he didnt
think Mr K had been treated unfairly by it not changing the cover.
Mr K didnt agree with our investigator. He said that the investigator hadnt considered the
exceptional circumstances surrounding this case. Mr K said that the investigator had
regurgitated old facts when coming to his view, and not tried to find out the reasoning behind
BISLs decision. He said that as a result of the pandemic, insurance policies and MOTs had
been extended at no extra cost.
Ultimately, Mr K doesnt believe that it was fair of BISL to not reduce the level of cover of his
policy given the exceptional circumstances of the pandemic. He said that he had paid the full
premium for a period of four to five months where he didnt deem he would be a greater risk
 and that BISL had pocketed funds for no effective service.
Mr K also added that BISL tried to take an extra premium of £52.65 for no good reason, after
his policy had expired.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont currently intend to
uphold Mr Ks complaint.
It isnt my role to tell businesses to change its policies or to tell it what types of policies it
should offer. But it is my role to determine if Mr K has been treated fairly by BISL in the
circumstances of this complaint. Based on everything Ive seen so far, I think it has treated
him fairly.
The main crux of Mr Ks complaint is that BISL wouldnt reduce the level of cover on his
policy from comprehensive. BISL say it doesnt offer a lower level of cover to any of its
customers, and so this is the reason it couldnt reduce the cover on Mr Ks policy.
BISL has sent this service evidence to show that it only offers comprehensive cover. It says
that this is because of the arrangement it has with the underwriter. I dont find it unfair of
BISL to not provide Mr K with a service it doesnt offer to any of its customers. Its ultimately
up to the underwriter to determine what types of risk it is happy to insure, and its not
something this service would generally interfere with.
Ive listened to the call Mr K had with BISL in February 2020 when he asked to change the
level of cover. BISL told him it wasnt able to do this  and explained the reason why. It also
let him know that he could cancel the cover if he wanted to. So, I think it was fair of BISL to
have reminded Mr K of his options if he didnt want to continue with the cover.
Mr K doesnt feel that BISL have been fair because it hasnt considered the pandemic and
the repercussions of this on customers when declining to offer a reduced level of cover. He
also feels that BISL hasnt provided him with the service he paid for because he wasnt using
his car for a number of months while he was away.
Firstly, I dont think BISL has disregarded what has happened to Mr K as a result of the
pandemic. Its just that it doesnt offer the cover Mr K wants it to. I understand Mr K feels that
it should have done more, but there wasnt any requirement for it to change the level of
cover it provided  even in the pandemic. While Mr K might have been given an extension
on his MOT, this is different to his insurance policy and there wasnt any requirement of
insurers to offer different types of cover during this time to which was usually offered.
Even if BISL had been able to offer a lower level of cover, its worth noting that this option
might not have been cheaper for Mr K, as some insurers deem cars insured in this way to be
a higher risk. So if Mr K was looking for a reduction in premium by reducing the cover, this
might not have been the outcome.
BISL still provided Mr K with a service during the time he wasnt using the car. While I
appreciate the car wasnt being driven, it was still covered for anything that might have
happened to the car while Mr K was away.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think BISL did anything wrong by not reducing the
level cover on Mr Ks motor insurance policy.
Mr K also raised concerns about BISL charging him a premium after he cancelled the cover.
Mr Ks policy was set to automatically renew. I can see Mr K didnt accept the renewal and
sent an email to BISL requesting the cancellation of the insurance on 18 July 2020, whichwas the date his policy was due to renew. By the time BISL had received the email and
responded to it, it had already collected the monthly premium due. When it realised that Mr K
wanted the policy cancelling, it refunded the premium. I dont think BISL has done anything
wrong here, Mr K didnt request that his policy was cancelled until the day it was due to
renew. BISL didnt take an unreasonable amount of time for it to respond to Mr Ks email 
and at the point it did, the policy had already renewed so it collected the premium. Mr K has
been fully refunded for this, and so hes not out of pocket.
BISL responded to my provisional decision to say it agreed with my provisional findings and 
it didnt have anything further to add.
Mr K also responded, but he didnt agree with the outcome or my findings. I have 
summarised the most relevant points to my provisional decision below. Ive not listed all the 
points Mr K has raised in response. Instead Ive summarised what I consider to be Mr Ks 
key points regarding my provisional decision:
He asked for third-party cover from March 2020 to July 2020  and this would be a 
lesser risk to BISL. He thinks this is a reasonable request given the pandemic. 
I should have considered the reason BISL dont offer third-party cover.
There was no refund offered to Mr K by BISL for the renewal of his policy under third 
party, fire and theft.
He doesnt think it was fair of BISL to renew his policy without contacting him first. Mr 
K says that he was abroad at the time without the use of internet. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything again, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. I know that this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr K, as I know how strongly he feels about his complaint. But 
being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both parties
have said. And I have to look to see if BISL has acted fairly and reasonably when
dealing with Mr K. For the reasons already stated in my provisional decision, I think it has 
done this. However, I will comment on Mr Ks points below. 
I said in my provisional decision that not all third-party policies are considered a lower risk  
this is ultimately up to the underwriter to decide. But given that BISL doesnt offer this cover 
to any of its customers, I dont agree there was any requirement for BISL to treat Mr K 
differently to any of its other customers  even in the pandemic.
Ive explained that BISL only offer comprehensive cover  this is because of an arrangement 
it has with the underwriter of the policy. It is up to the insurer what risk it chooses to insure  
and how much it charges for this risk.
BISL said it wouldnt renew the policy under third-party fire and theft, this is again because it 
doesnt offer this type of cover. I dont think it was unfair of BISL not to offer a refund in 
premiums  the car was still covered under the policy. And as Ive said in my provisional 
decision, third-party insurance isnt always cheaper than comprehensive cover. So even if 
BISL could offer a lower level of cover, it might not have been cheaper. 
Ive looked at all the information on file, and I can see that BISL did let Mr K know when the 
policy was due to renew. I can see that it sent him emails about this on 21 and 25 June 2020. I can also see that it sent him a text message about this on the 25 June 2020 too. Ive 
thought about Mr Ks comments that he was abroad with minimal internet access, but I can 
also see that he was in contact with BISL while he was away. Even if I accept that Mr K 
didnt receive the reminders, BISL did try to contact Mr K about it  using two different 
methods. So, I think it did enough to remind him about the renewal. In any event, BISL 
refunded the premium that was collected when the policy renewed, so I wouldnt ask it to do 
more than this anyway. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman