DRN-2739760
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc unfairly granted her ex-husband (Mr S) a covid 
related payment holiday (also known as a payment deferral) on their joint mortgage without 
her consent. Shes also unhappy that Santander subsequently chased her for payment.
What happened
Mrs S and Mr S took out a mortgage for approximately £80,000 with Santander in 2006. The 
mortgage was set up on a capital repayment basis over a 16 year term.
In March 2020, Mr S applied for and was granted a three month payment deferral by 
Santander, covering the April, May and June 2020 payments. Mrs S says she didnt consent 
to this. Shes also told us her and Mr S were going through marital problems before this time 
but they hadnt told Santander about that. 
Mrs S says Mr S wasnt living at the property when he applied for the payment deferral but 
returned in early April, before leaving again in early May. She says she only found out about 
the payment deferral when she received a letter from Santander dated 22 May 2020. She 
also says she told Santander some time before the payment deferral application that she 
wasnt receiving statements but it told her it couldnt send two statements to the same 
address.
Mrs S has explained that, before the payment deferral Mr S paid the mortgage while she 
paid for the other household bills. However, Mr S cancelled his direct debit and Santander 
chased her for the mortgage payments following the payment deferral period. Santanders 
insistence that she applied for the payment deferral and should make the mortgage 
payments led to a very stressful period for her and her son. So, Mrs S complained to 
Santander.
Santander sent its final response to Mrs S on 31 July 2020. It said her mortgage was still in 
joint names and Santander can receive instruction from either party. It understands that Mrs 
S did not apply for the payment deferral but it informed her that it had been accepted in a 
letter dated 30 March 2020. It said Mrs S could still have made payments during the deferral 
period and any payments she intended to make can still be made.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs S referred the matter to us. Our investigator said 
she thought Santander acted in line with the FCA guidance by approving the payment 
holiday. She said shed seen evidence that Santander took reasonable steps to let Mrs S 
know about the payment deferral and that Mrs S didnt inform Santander of her marital 
dispute until June 2020 and that she didnt know about the payment deferral.
Our investigator also explained that, had Santander not granted the payment deferral, the 
account may have fallen into arrears, given that Mr S was making payments before then. 
And, as both parties are jointly responsible for making payments to the mortgage, it was 
reasonable of Santander to contact them both for payment.
Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators findings, so her complaint has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and Ill explain why.
When deciding Mrs Ss complaint, Ive thought about whether it was fair for Santander to 
proceed with the payment deferral based on the instructions it received from Mr S. And Ive 
thought about whether the actions taken by Santander were reasonable in relation to 
collecting payments at the end of the deferral period.
When the covid 19 pandemic began the FCA issued guidance to lenders about how they 
should support mortgage customers experiencing or likely to experience financial difficulty as 
a result of the pandemic. Lenders were expected to offer  both to those borrowers 
requesting it and those borrowers suspected of experiencing covid related financial difficulty 
 up to three months of payment deferral. 
Lenders were not expected to ask applicants to demonstrate that they were experiencing 
difficulty  instead they were expected to make the application process simple. They were 
also expected to accept applications unless they thought a payment deferral would not be in 
the best interests of the borrower.
When Santander received a request from Mr S for a payment deferral it sent a letter 
addressed to both parties to the mortgaged property where Mrs S was living. The letter 
confirmed the payment deferral had been agreed and to which months payments it applied. 
The copy of the letter Ive seen shows the letter was dated 30 March 2020 and Santander 
has confirmed Mr and Mrs Ss payment date was around the 23rd of each month. So, I think 
it provided sufficient notice if Mrs S wanted to change the instruction.
Mrs S says she didnt receive that letter, so I understand that she may not have found out 
about the payment deferrals until after they started. But I think Santander did follow the spirit 
of the FCAs guidance in making the application process simple and it needed to deal with 
applications efficiently, given the likely numbers it received. I also think, in sending 
notification when it did it took reasonable steps to make Mrs S aware. In the event that 
Santander had not approved the payment deferral, and Mr S was not able to make the 
payments, the impact on the mortgage account would have been to both partys detriment  
as there still would have been missed payments on the mortgage but with no arrangement in 
place. Unless Mrs S was able to make the payments instead, which shes told us she wasnt 
able to.
Ive seen that, when Mrs S did become aware and contacted Santander, it told her she could 
still make payments and pay those already missed. I understand that wasnt practical for Mrs 
S, given her previous arrangement with Mr S that hed make mortgage payments while she 
covered other household bills. But I think Santander did show flexibility and so had a fair 
approach in that regard.
Mrs S has complained about Santanders approach at the end of the payment deferral 
period when mortgage payments were due to start again. She says that Santander chased her and bombarded her with letters. Ive seen from the letters she provided that Santander 
contacted her to let her know that the direct debit had failed  has either been cancelled or 
not been paid by your bank. It then wrote to them twice within approximately two weeks 
chasing payment and outlining what may happen if payment is not made. And its clear Mrs 
S was in touch with Santander separately on the telephone about this and complaining about 
the payment deferral.
Given the frustration Mrs S may well have experienced at finding herself in the position of 
having to cover all household bills and the mortgage payments, I completely understand that 
she would have found Santanders correspondence stressful. But I think Santander needed 
to inform her of the direct debit failure and the consequences of not paying the mortgage. 
I also understand that Mrs S may have felt that she was unfairly targeted when Mr S had 
requested the payment deferral and in doing so caused the contractual monthly payment to 
increase. But I think its reasonable for Santander to write to either or both parties when 
payments are missed. And I think its particularly important that it communicated with Mrs S 
in that regard because it was her home that was potentially at risk.
Overall, Ive seen that this has been a particularly stressful and frustrating time for Mrs S, but 
I think Santander has acted reasonably and followed the FCAs guidance about covid related 
payment deferrals. And considering all the circumstances of the case, I dont think theyve 
acted unfairly in doing so.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint about Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman