DRN-4098338
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Voyager Insurance Services Ltd mis-sold her an annual travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs B took out an annual travel insurance policy through Voyager by phone. 
The policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill call S. During the sale, Mrs B decided not to 
add any optional covers to her core policy.
Subsequently, Mrs B travelled abroad. She planned to take a tour. However, when she 
arrived at her destination, she found the tour had been cancelled. She incurred significant 
costs in ultimately returning to her home. She made a claim on her travel insurance policy.
S didnt agree to settle Mrs Bs full claim. It said that many of the circumstances of the claim 
werent covered by the policy terms. Thats because Mrs B hadnt taken out optional 
Enhanced Travel and Terrorism Disruption (ETD) cover, which wouldve likely covered the 
situation she found herself in.
Mrs B complained about the sale of the policy by Voyager. She said shed been led to 
believe that cancellation, curtailment and abandonment cover were included as standard on 
her policy. And she said that Voyager hadnt listed the additional cover options on the policy 
documents shed been sent. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld. She listened to the sales 
call between Mrs B and Voyager. She was satisfied that Mrs B hadnt been advised to take 
out the policy. She noted that during the call, Mrs B had been offered ETD cover, which Mrs 
B had declined. And she concluded that as Voyager had sent Mrs B the policy 
documentation after the sale, it had been up to Mrs B to check that the policy met her needs. 
So she didnt think Voyager had mis-sold the policy to Mrs B.
Mrs B disagreed and Ive summarised her responses to the investigator. Shed understood 
that cancellation cover was included on her policy as standard. There hadnt been an option 
to add and pay for cancellation cover. She said that Voyager had never sent her a hard copy 
of the policy documents  it had only sent them by email. She felt that Voyager had taken no 
responsibility for her claim. Additional cover options hadnt been listed on her policy because 
they hadnt been offered. She stated that shed believed she was buying a comprehensive 
insurance policy.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, I think Voyager has treated her fairly 
and Ill explain why.
At the outset, its important I explain that this decision will only consider the sale of the policy 
by Voyager. Mrs B made a separate complaint about the way S settled her claim, which has 
been considered by another Ombudsman. I wont be considering any further concerns Mrs B 
may have about S handling and settlement of her claim. I would add though that as Voyager 
wasnt the policy underwriter and wasnt authorised to settle claims, Id reasonably have 
expected it to pass Mrs Bs claim to S and S agents for assessment.
It's common ground that Mrs B took out the policy by phone. Having listened to the sales 
call, Im satisfied that Voyager didnt recommend that Mrs B should take out the policy. 
Thats because it didnt carry out an assessment of her demands and needs. It told her it 
was giving her limited information about the policy and that full policy documentation would 
be sent to her after the sale. As Voyager didnt advise Mrs B to take out the policy, it didnt 
need to make sure it was suitable for her. But it did need to give her enough clear, fair and 
not misleading information about the policy to allow her to decide if it was right for her.
The policy Mrs B took out did cover cancellation and curtailment as standard. The specified 
insured events S covered in the event of cancellation or curtailment were detailed in the 
policy booklet. The policy didnt include ETD cover as standard. The ETD add-on provided 
extended cancellation and travel disruption cover in certain situations and attracted an 
additional premium. During the call, Voyagers call handler provided Mrs B with a list of 
optional add-on covers, including the option to take out ETD cover. So Im satisfied Mrs B 
was given a clear choice about whether or not to add-on ETD cover to her core policy. But 
Mrs B declined to take-up this option and therefore, it wasnt included in her contract.
Following the sale of the policy, Voyager needed to provide Mrs B with a copy of the relevant 
documentation, including a copy of the policy terms and an Insurance Product Information 
Document. Voyager has provided us with a copy of the email which was sent to Mrs B post-
sale. This email included both of these documents as attachments, along with a copy of her 
policy certificate. Mrs B acknowledges that she did receive a copy of this email and the 
attachments. 
Unfortunately, the PDF copy of the policy certificate which was attached to the email didnt 
include a list of the optional additional covers which Mrs B had chosen not to purchase. 
However, I can see that the main body of the email includes a copy of the policy certificate, 
which sets out the contract details and a table of Additional Coverages. This table includes 
ETD cover. Immediately adjacent to the entry for ETD (as well as all of the other optional 
extras) is the word no. So I think Voyager made it sufficiently clear in the post-sale 
documentation that Mrs B hadnt paid for or purchased any additional cover options.
I note too that this email includes a section called Policy Options. This states: 
While this policy covers you as standard for leisure, business trips, cruise trips and various 
activities, there are a range of optional extended benefits available to you upon payment of 
an additional premium. Please note that this is a summary of cover only. Cover will only 
apply if you have paid the additional premium, per option, and each selected option is shown 
on your certificate.
Immediately underneath, a table of the available additional cover options is listed. ETD cover 
is included in this list and the table states that ETD cover includes extended cancellation and 
curtailment cover, along with extended travel delay, extended missed departure, extended 
abandonment and other extended travel disruption covers. These options were also set out 
on page two of the policy booklet itself. So I think that even if Mrs B hadnt fully understood 
that optional ETD cover was available to her during the sales call, the post-sale documentation made the option to purchase ETD cover clear enough. 
And if, after looking at the policy documentation, Mrs B didnt think the cover had been right 
for her, she had a 14-day cooling-off period in which to cancel the policy and obtain a refund 
of her premium. Mrs B contacted Voyager after the sale to query a mistake which had been 
made, so I think she was reasonably aware that she could make changes to the policy if she 
wished to do so.
Overall, Im persuaded that Voyager did give Mrs B enough clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy to allow her to make an informed choice about whether the 
policy was right for her. I think it gave her the option to add ETD cover, which she declined, 
and that it set out the cover she had sufficiently clearly in the post-sale documentation. So it 
follows that whilst I sympathise with Mrs B, as its clear how strongly she feels about this 
matter, I dont find that Voyager mis-sold this policy to her. And I make no award against 
Voyager.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman