DRN-3844283
The complaint
Miss T complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as very (Shop Direct) 
irresponsibly gave her a running account credit facility she couldnt afford. 
What happened
In October 2020, Miss T opened a credit facility with Shop Direct. It had an initial credit limit 
of £300. The limit was increased to £500 in April 2021. In July 2021, Shop Direct temporarily 
increased the limit to £650 before then reducing it back down to £500 a month later.
Miss T failed to make any monthly repayment towards the account in September and 
October 2021. Her outstanding balance at this time was £527.20. She then agreed a 
repayment plan with Shop Direct of £9.12 per month, which included the suspension of any 
further interest being applied. Miss T generally stuck to the repayment plan until April 2022. 
It appears Miss T hasnt made any further payments since this date.
In June 2022, Miss T complained to say that the credit account had been unaffordable to her 
and that Shop Direct shouldnt have increased the limit. She said Shop Direct should have 
been able to see that the credit limits werent manageable for her. 
Shop Direct didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint so she asked our service to investigate. Our 
adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said he didnt think there was 
anything in the checks Shop Direct completed that ought to have caused it concerns about 
opening the account with an initial credit limit of £300. He thought further checks should 
have been done before increasing the limit, but as Miss T hadnt provided the evidence hed 
asked for, he wasnt satisfied Shop Direct had made an unfair lending decision.
Miss T didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before providing credit Shop Direct were required to satisfy themselves that Miss T could 
afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. There isnt a set list of checks they had to 
complete but any checks they did needed to be proportionate to the specific circumstances. 
What is considered proportionate will vary with each lending decision and will depend on 
things such as (but not limited to): the type and amount of credit, the cost of borrowing, the 
size of any regular repayments and the consumers circumstances. 
I understand when applying for the account Miss T declared she was living at home with her 
parents and earned an income of between £12,000 and £13,500. Shop Direct completed 
credit checks which showed that Miss T had under £1,000 in other credit. It showed that all 
of her credit commitments were up to date with no repayment issues although there had 
been some historic missed payments. 
I think the checks Shop Direct completed were proportionate and there wasnt anything in 
the information it saw that ought to have caused it concern about Miss Ts ability to repay a 
credit limit of £300. 
I think when Shop Direct sought to increase the limit on both occasions it should have 
completed more thorough checks. I say this because Miss Ts income was relatively modest, 
and although shed generally been paying more than the minimum payment each month, her 
balance had steadily increased. I think it would have been proportionate for Shop Direct to 
have gained a more thorough understanding of Miss Ts other committed expenditure. 
Miss T hasnt provided us with details of her financial circumstances at the time of the limit 
increases, so Ive been unable to determine whether more thorough checks should have 
resulted in a different lending decision. The way in which Miss T was managing her account 
wouldnt on its own have caused any affordability concerns, so I dont think this ought to 
have stopped it increasing the credit limits each time. I therefore havent seen anything to 
make me think Shop Direct made an unfair lending decision when it increased the limits. 
Ive also thought about whether Shop Direct treated Miss T fairly when she began to struggle 
with the repayments. I can see that it stopped charging her interest and agreed a reduced 
repayment plan with her. In the circumstances, I think this was a fair and reasonable way for 
Shop Direct to try and assist her. I dont therefore think Shop Direct needs to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman