DRN-4495869
The complaint
Mr S complains about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) liability decision following a claim 
against his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S was involved in an accident while driving his car. He says he approached a stationary 
car, which wasnt displaying any lights or indicator, and as he attempted to overtake the car, 
it suddenly pulled out hitting his car. Mr S says, initially, he received a letter holding the third-
party fully at fault, but this was followed by another letter splitting liability 70/30 in favour of 
the third-party. Mr S wasnt happy with UKIs liability decision, so he complained. UKI 
responded and maintained their decision to settle the claim based on 70/30 split liability 
terms in favour of the third party. They referred to case law which supported their decision 
and also The Highway Code.    
Our investigator looked into things for Mr S. He thought UKI hadnt acted unfairly in relation 
to their liability decision. Mr S disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr S will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. The key dispute here relates to UKIs decision on liability and to hold Mr S 
partly responsible for the accident. 
When an accident occurs, its the insurer wholl decide how the claim should be settled - this 
includes determining which party was at fault. An insurer might choose to accept liability, 
propose or agree to split liability, or choose to defend any allegation of liability. While this 
decision rests with an insurer, and its not the role of our service to decide who is at fault for 
an accident, we can look to see whether an insurer has handled the claim in a fair and 
reasonable manner. So, Ive looked into how and why UKI reached their decision and the 
evidence and arguments they considered before making a decision.    
The information shows Mr S reported the accident and he explained he wasnt claiming so 
the incident was recorded for information purposes only. Mr S then called again to make a 
claim. Claim notes provided by UKI show the third-party insurer accepted liability and UKI 
then sent a letter to Mr S confirming this. The claim notes show the third-party insurer then 
considered the dashcam footage and changed their position on liability. They were now of 
the view liability should be split 70/30 in favour of the third-party as the accident 
circumstances were consistent with existing case law - and that case was settled on the 
same split liability terms. UKI then write to Mr S and explain theyve had to agree to these 
liability settlement terms, as they feel its correct.    
The case law UKI refer to here relates to a case where UKI say the circumstances are 
similar to Mr Ss accident  so Ive looked into this case. This case describes the 
circumstances as, The claimant was on a main road approaching a junction, intending to 
turn right. As he turned, he was hit by a car from behind attempting to overtake. The court 
apportioned liability 70/30 in the claimants favour on the basis that although overtaking car 
was primarily responsible, the claimant used his mirrors only once.  
Ive viewed the dashcam footage, and this shows Mr S driving along a main road and 
approaching the third-partys stationary car. As Mr S attempts to overtake the third-partys 
car, they start turning right and collide with Mr Ss car. The dashcam footage shows theres a 
road to the third-partys right side. Its not clear whether the third-party was attempting to turn 
right into this road or just moving off, but the third-party car does appear to move towards the 
right. In view of Mr Ss accident circumstances, I cant say UKI have acted unfairly in taking 
into account the case law here. 
I acknowledge Mr S says the two accident circumstances arent identical as he was 
attempting to overtake a parked car which wasnt indicating, and not a car about to take a 
right turn. I do understand Mr Ss argument here. The dashcam footage shows the third-
party car is stationary on Mr Ss approach towards it. Theres a road on the right but, despite 
the opposite lane being clear, the third-party car doesnt move, and doesnt have its indicator 
on or any other lights. So I do understand why Mr S believed the third-party car was 
stationary. But, as Mr S overtakes, the third-party car does start moving and edges towards 
the right. 
Also, having viewed the dashcam footage, Im not persuaded the third-party car was parked 
on the left side of the road. I think the third-party car is positioned more towards the middle 
of the road which suggests it wasnt parked up. This appears to be recognised by Mr Ss 
passenger who refers to the third-party car being, in the middle of the road immediately 
before the collision. So, while I acknowledge Mr Ss points about any disparity between his 
accident circumstances and the case law, I dont believe the two circumstances are that 
dissimilar that it would be unreasonable for UKI to take it into consideration when assessing 
liability in Mr Ss claim. 
UKI also refer to Rule 167 of The Highway Code which says, Do not overtake where you 
might come into conflict with other road users. For example, approaching or at a road 
junction on either side of the road. Looking at the dashcam footage, I cant say UKI have 
acted unreasonably in taking this into consideration when assessing liability. UKI also say 
theyd checked the position with their litigation team for a legal opinion and they agree with 
the 70/30 liability split. They say their decision has been based on case law and the Highway 
Code. Taking this all into account, I cant say UKI have acted unfairly here. I say this 
because the information shows theyve taken into account all the information available  this 
includes Mr Ss account of events, the dashcam footage, case law and The Highway Code. 
The information also shows they sought guidance from their litigation team.  
I acknowledge Mr S says he was informed liability wasnt in dispute, but this decision was 
then reversed. I understand this was frustrating for Mr S, but the information shows the third-
party insurer initially accepted liability but then very shortly afterwards, changed their 
decision. I understand Mr S believes the original liability decision is binding, but its not 
unusual or uncommon for insurers to change their liability position while dealing with a claim 
 particularly when reviewing any new evidence. In this case, its clear the third-party insurer 
changed their position on liability, but I cant look at their actions. I can only look at UKIs 
actions, and in this case, I accept they initially confirmed liability had been accepted, but later confirmed the position had changed. But this was down to the third-party insurer 
changing their position and not as a result of any error by UKI. 
  
I do acknowledge the accident circumstances have been upsetting and frustrating for Mr S, 
and I can see he has strong feelings about whos responsible for the accident. But, my role 
here is to decide whether UKI have acted fairly and reasonably when reaching a decision on 
liability  and for the reasons Ive mentioned, I think they have. I wish to reassure Mr S Ive 
read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent mentioned a particular point 
or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont 
feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is 
a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman