DRN-1790268
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Amtrust International Underwriters DAC 
(Amtrust) when they were performing roadside assistance.
References to Amtrust in this decision include things carried out by its appointed agents. 
Amtrust are the underwriters of the policy and so are ultimately responsible even though    
Mr S wouldn't have dealt with them directly.
What happened
In April 2019 Mr S experienced problems with his car. He had breakdown cover with Amtrust 
so he called them for assistance.
Mr S was unhappy the technician sent out by Amtrust didnt attempt to diagnose or repair the 
problem, which meant after the car had been recovered, he had the inconvenience of having 
to arrange to diagnose and repair the car himself. Mr S was also unhappy he had to pay 
mileage charges as part of the recovery.
Amtrust looked in to what happened. They agreed to reduce the mileage charges from £69 
to £54, which Mr S has paid.  However, they went on to say that they use technicians, and 
not trained mechanics, which is outlined in the policy document. They say that they do not 
guarantee that a problem can be diagnosed or repaired. 
Mr S remained unhappy so brought his complaint to our service. One of our investigators 
looked into what happened. She thought Amtrust acted in line with their terms and conditions 
and so didn't recommend any costs be refunded. Mr S provided further comments 
maintaining his view that Amtrust didnt attempt to diagnose the issue, and not doing so has 
caused him inconvenience and costs in having to take time off work and pay to diagnose the 
fault himself. These further comments didn't persuade our investigator to change her mind, 
so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at Mr Ss policy. It says if he breaks down Amtrust it will send help and pay 
callout and mileage charges needed to repair or assist with the car. It goes on to say if, in 
the opinion of the recovery operator, they are unable to repair the vehicle at the roadside, 
they will transport the car, driver and passengers to a destination within 10 miles. 
Mr S says a recovery operator attended the car at the roadside but didnt attempt to 
diagnose or repair it. Amtrust says the operator was aware Mr S had experienced similar 
problems with the car shortly before the breakdown which had led to a new alternator being 
fitted. This, combined with the battery light being on, led the operator to conclude that, in his 
opinion, he was unable to repair the car. I dont think, considering the circumstances 
presented to the operator, this was an unreasonable conclusion to reach. So I dont agree 
the operator  and by extension Amtrust  acted incorrectly or unfairly here.  
I would add that even if I were to conclude that the operator ought reasonably to have done 
more to diagnose the fault, Im not persuaded he would have succeeded in doing so. Mr S 
says he took the car for diagnosis at three different garages (which are generally more 
knowledgeable and better equipped than recovery operators) and they all failed to identify 
the fault. In addition, the repair which was eventually undertaken required a new part, which 
the operator wouldnt have had. So his conclusion - namely, that he was unable to repair the 
car at the roadside - was correct.
The vehicle was then taken to a destination of Mr Ss choice at no cost for the first 10 miles, 
as set out in Mr Ss policy. I therefore think that Amtrust did what the policy said it would 
following the operator concluding he was unable to repair the car. 
Mr S did have to pay for the extra mileage as the chosen destination was more than 10 miles 
away. This was explained clearly to Mr S during the breakdown call and he agreed to pay it. 
So I think it was fair for Amtrust to apply the charge. Amtrust reduced the charge by £15 as a 
gesture of goodwill. As this isnt something I would have expected Amtrust to do I find it was 
a fair action to take. 
Im sure this whole event has been stressful and inconvenient for Mr S. However, my view is 
that Amtrust did what the policy said it would. Amtrust has already reduced the mileage 
charge by £15 and I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman