DRN-3207058
The complaint
Ms G complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to her irresponsibly and provided her 
with unaffordable lending.
What happened
AvantCredit provided a loan to Ms G as follows:
Date 
takenLoan 
amountTerm Typical 
monthly 
repaymentTotal amount 
repayableLoan status
3/10/2016 £2,000 36 months £94.79 £3,412.37. Outstanding 
When Ms G complained to AvantCredit it didnt uphold her complaint so she brought her 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that 
AvantCredit shouldnt have provided the loan. Our adjudicator explained why she was 
recommending that the complaint should be upheld and she set out directions indicating 
what AvantCredit should do to put things right. 
AvantCredit disagreed. It mainly said that Ms G had around £362 disposable income left 
after paying its loan on top of all her other monthly outgoings and she had no defaulted 
accounts or any repayment plan to indicate financial difficulty at the time of the loan 
application.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Ms Gs complaint for broadly the same reasons as our adjudicator. Ill explain my reasons. 
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
I have reviewed the information AvantCredit gathered when it agreed to provide this loan. 
Alongside asking Ms G what her regular outgoings were each month, AvantCredit also 
carried out its own credit checks to understand Ms Gs credit history and current credit 
commitments and it relied on the net monthly income figure it saw in its credit checks.  
Like our adjudicator, I think AvantCredit should have been concerned to see that when Ms G 
applied for this loan the credit checks it obtained showed that that she already had a 
substantial amount of debt (over £16,000) and she was spending around £600 each month 
on her existing credit commitments. She had opened 3 new credit accounts during the 
previous 3 months and the balances had increased on 8 of her accounts during that period. 
She had used practically all of her available credit. 
This seems to be significantly at odds with the information AvantCredit had gathered 
suggesting that Ms G had ample spare cash each month. And I think AvantCredit needed 
to do more to ensure it had a proper understanding of Ms Gs overall financial situation to 
be satisfied she could afford the loan
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown.
Bank statements provided by Ms G are a useful guide to understanding her overall financial 
situation at the time. I think its fair to say these show that, despite boosting the funds in her 
account with multiple other loans, a proportionate check would likely have revealed to 
AvantCredit that Ms G was making no inroads into her £5,000 overdraft and reliant on new 
borrowing to meet her spending needs. I think thats borne out by the fact that on the date 
her first repayment was due, this took Ms G over her agreed overdraft limit. And whilst she 
was still paying multiple other loans, she continued to take out other new lending, even after 
taking this loan.  
This loan meant that Ms G was now paying more than a quarter of her take home pay just 
on servicing debt. I think that this was such a significant proportion of Ms Gs monthly 
income AvantCredit couldnt reasonably say that it was likely she would be able to repay its 
loan in a sustainable way  especially bearing in mind the 36 months loan term. 
I think this all shows that Ms G was over-reliant on credit she couldnt afford and she needed 
to keep on borrowing in order to be able to meet her existing credit commitments. And I 
believe that if AvantCredit had done a proportionate check it ought reasonably to have been 
aware that taking further, costly lending was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Ms G 
and recognised that it shouldnt have provided this loan. 
So, I am upholding Ms Gs complaint that she should not have been given the loan. 
Putting things right
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that AvantCredit should pay any additional redress. Ms G 
hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think AvantCredit 
acted unfairly towards Ms G in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress. And I think it is fair and reasonable for Ms G to repay the capital amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid extra for lending that should 
not have been provided to her. In line with this Services approach, Ms G shouldnt repay 
more than the capital amount she borrowed.
I understand AvantCredit sold this outstanding debt, so it should buy this back if able to do 
so and then take the following steps. Otherwise, AvantCredit should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Ms G received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Ms G made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Ms G having paid more than she received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if there is a shortfall in repayments which leaves a capital amount outstanding, 
then AvantCredit should try and arrange an affordable payment plan with Ms G 
bearing in mind its obligation to treat Ms G sympathetically and fairly if she still 
needs further time to pay
   whilst its fair that Ms Gs credit file is an accurate reflection of her financial history, 
its unfair that she should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So AvantCredit should remove any 
negative information recorded on Ms Gs credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit 
should give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if she asks for 
one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AvantCredit of UK, LLC to take the steps I've set out 
above to put things right for Ms G.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman