DRN-2877163
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc unreasonably increased his 
premium for his life time pet policy which he considers to be unfair. 
What happened
RSA took over the underwriting of Mr Ps policy in December 2012. Mr P had previously 
complained about his other policy for his other dog and RSA paid him £1,250 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience that he experienced at the shock of the increase in that 
policy. 
In 2019, the renewal invitation for this policy said his premium would now rise from 
£2,227.06 per year to £2,566.73 per year. So, Mr P complained again to RSA and told RSA 
if it paid him £1,250 compensation for this one, the matter would then be settled.
RSA said Mr Ps two policies werent comparable due to the different ages and medical 
history of his dogs, but it said it would pay him £600 compensation. Mr P didnt think this was 
enough, so he brought his complaint to us.
The investigator thought RSA didnt need to do anything more than this offer of £600 
compensation. Mr P didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
The issue here isnt the extent of the premium increase but rather the fact that when Mr P 
first bought his policy, he was unaware it might increase by this amount. That is why RSA 
have offered him £600 compensation. This is because insurers are permitted to charge the 
premium that they wish. This service has no ability to tell insurers what the amount of a 
premium should be in any given circumstances.
As the investigator explained this policy isnt comparable to the other policy because its for a 
different dog with a different medical history and indeed this dog is also older. RSA has also 
confirmed to us that the underwriting on this policy is correct so its shown me it would be 
similar for other customers with dogs with a similar history and age. As this information is 
commercially sensitive, I cant share it with Mr P.
So, given the two policies are different and arent indeed covering the same risk profile, there 
is no reason why the compensation should be the same as Mr P wants. Further this 
compensation is for the shock of not being told when Mr P bought the policy that the 
premium might increase substantially. In many ways the previous compensation goes a long 
way in my view for compensating for that, therefore I dont consider its reasonable to simply 
expect the same level of compensation again, given Mr Ps subsequent awareness of the 
issue.
I consider the £600 compensation to be generous in these circumstances and more than I 
would have awarded had RSA not already offered it.
Therefore, Im of the view that RSA doesnt need to do anything more. It now remains for Mr 
P to decide whether he wishes to accept it or not.
                                                                                                                                               
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman