DRN-3612795
The complaint
Mr T complains about problems with a car he a acquired through a Conditional Sale 
Agreement  with Santander Consumer Finance (SCF) .He isnt happy  with the solutions 
offered.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
Mr Ts preference is for his car to be repaired. Two independent reports fount a fault 
with Mr Ts car however two independent garages then couldnt find a fault to repair. 
A third independent report didnt find a fault  concluding driver style was the problem. 
Despite this SCF agreed to Mr T getting two quotes for work he felt needed to be 
done. As these both came back in the region of £11,000 it felt repair was 
uneconomic. Given the purchase price was just under £13,000 I would agree.
Mr T has now come back with a repair quote in the region £6,000  using secondhand 
parts I would be concerned that this still wouldnt resolve the issue. I dont think SCF 
are being unreasonable in not agreeing to a repair particularly given the history to 
date. 
Mr Ts second preference is to accept the rejection on offer but to get a refund the 
cost of the car and all premiums paid. I dont think this is reasonable since he has 
had use of the car having driven approximately 10000 miles..
His third preference is to be sold the same or a very similar car at the original 
purchase price. Unfortunately, whilst I appreciate the cost of cars has increased this 
isnt something we would normally consider when looking at redress particularly 
when a consumer has had use of the car as Mr T has.
Our investigator recommended rejection with a refund of any deposit with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement and a payment £200 for 
the trouble and upset. SCF has accepted this solution and I think its reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement Santander Consumer Finance should :-
Take back the car at no cost to Mr T 
End Mr Ts finance agreement 
Refund any deposit Mr T paid with 8% simple interest from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement 
Pay Mr T £200 for any trouble and upset caused 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman