DRN-3137349
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund several transactions he didnt 
recognise.
What happened
Mr A received a message from Barclays which prompted him to check his account. He saw 
three transactions to an online betting merchant Ill refer to as D. Mr A notified Barclays that 
these transactions werent carried out by him. 
Barclays investigated the circumstances and provided a temporary refund to Mr A whilst they 
carried out a chargeback request. This is a process that enables card payments to be 
challenged and requires the merchant (D) to defend their right to take the payments from Mr 
A. 
D responded to Barclays with evidence to show they were entitled to the funds. They 
supplied details that showed an account in the name of Mr A had been set up some years 
previously and the information matched those that Barclays had also recorded for Mr A, 
including his home address, telephone number and email address. D also recorded the IP 
address used to make the payments to them that Mr A was disputing. IP addresses relate to 
physical locations recorded when online activity takes place. They can record various 
aspects of the activity and sometimes indicate the location of the user, but they can also 
indicate a location linked to the online provider. In Mr As case, the details they recorded 
were an exact match for the details Barclays had recorded when Mr A used his Barclays 
Mobile Banking app (BMB).
D also explained that each time a deposit was made, the card holder had to enter the three-
digit security number (CVV) from their card to confirm the transaction. Barclays data 
recorded that each of the disputed transactions used the CVV, together with all the other 
details from Mr As debit card.
Barclays sent Mr A a copy of the evidence theyd received from D. They asked Mr A to 
respond with any further comments or evidence he had and gave him ten days to reply. Mr A 
has said he never received that letter and once the ten days expired, Barclays stopped 
challenging the payments under the chargeback arrangements. They then held Mr A liable 
for the transactions and redebited the temporary refund from Mr As account.
Mr A made a complaint to Barclays that he wasnt responsible for the disputed transactions 
and hed not received the evidence in order to reply to them. Barclays later sent a copy of 
the evidence to Mr A, but their records show they never received anything back about the 
information D had provided.
Barclays wrote to Mr A and explained they werent going to refund him because D had 
presented sufficient information to link Mr A with the transactions. Mr A was unhappy with 
how Barclays had dealt with his complaint and brought it to our service for an independent 
review.
It was looked into by one of our investigators who received more information from Mr A  he 
said that he lived in a premises with multiple other people and hed recently lost his phone 
for a while but had since got it back again. He explained that hed recently lost his card and it 
was replaced by Barclays.
Mr A thought his phone had been hacked which was the reason for these disputed 
transactions. Mr A later explained that he kept his passcode written in a book in his room, 
but he hadnt given it to anyone. He also confirmed he still had his card at the time of the 
disputed transactions. Once our investigator had looked into the details, she thought it was 
reasonable for Barclays to hold Mr A liable for the transactions. It was further explained that 
Mr As BMB log ins coincided with the disputed transactions and she thought it unlikely that a 
fraudster would use an account that was in the name of Mr A to send payments to D. This 
was because any winnings would be paid back to Mr As debit card and make it difficult for 
someone other than Mr A to utilise any winnings.
Mr A disagreed with the outcome and asked for a further review of his complaint which has 
now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Barclays can hold Mr A liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
 
Coming to the question of authorisation, this is made up of two parts. Authentication and 
consent. Authentication is usually referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, 
Barclays have supplied evidence that shows the debit card details, including the CVV were 
used to make the transactions. Im satisfied that the evidence shows all the disputed 
transactions were authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which Barclays and Mr A agreed to use the card for 
transactions. For example, when using the debit card details to complete an online 
purchase, Barclays agree to accept that this is a legitimate payment instruction made by the 
cardholder or another approved user and make the payment on their behalf. The 
transactions in this case used the debit card details including the CVV, so Im satisfied that 
consent was given, and the disputed transactions were authorised. But, there are exceptions 
where it wouldnt be appropriate for Barclays to hold Mr A responsible, for example if the 
card was used without his permission.
Mr A has explained that he lives with several other people and at some stage before the 
disputed transactions took place, he temporarily lost his phone. Mr A has speculated that his 
phone could have been hacked and is the reason for the disputed transactions. He also 
explained that his card had recently been replaced and he keeps the security information for 
his phone written down in a book which is kept in his room. 
Mr As domestic arrangements provided an opportunity for other persons to gain access to 
both his phone and the security details to access it. It also appears that his phone was 
mislaid for a short while. However having considered these circumstances, I dont think this 
is the likely explanation for the disputed transactions. I say that because the transactions 
used the debit card details rather than the phone. These transactions needed all the details 
from the debit card, along with the CVV  which is only recorded on the debit card. Mr A 
confirmed that hed recently lost his card and Barclays had replaced it, and it was the new card that was used to make these transactions. Mr A kept the card in his wallet and still had 
it at the time of the disputed transactions. There doesnt seem to be an opportunity for 
someone else to obtain the necessary card details to make these transactions.
Additional knowledge of Mr As personal information would also be required to make the 
transactions, including his date of birth, address and email address. Whilst some of that 
information would be available to other persons in the property, the combination of 
necessary information seems unlikely when I also consider that Mr A was using his BMB at 
the same time these transactions took place. We know that at the time of the transactions, 
Mr A had his phone because he received the message from Barclays that prompted him to 
check his account.
The IP address data is an exact match between the records supplied by D and the BMB 
audit information from Barclays. Ive thought about the possibility of another person in the 
household gaining access or using the same internet service, and whilst its possible that a 
similar IP address could have been generated from a person using the same internet service 
at the property, its highly unlikely to be an exact match due to the part of the IP address that 
records the actual device itself, which it was here. 
Mr A has denied he set up an account with D, although Ds records show the account was 
originally set up some years beforehand. I dont think its a common approach for an 
unauthorised third party who had all the necessary information to use Mr As debit card 
details with a gambling merchant. Thats because any withdrawals or winnings would be 
paid back to the same account they came from. The risk of using the card details with a 
gambling merchant seems very high, particularly when someone who was going to defraud 
Mr A and steal his funds could easily use the card details and other private information with 
far less risk.
I also dont think these transactions were made by an unauthorised third party as its highly 
unlikely theyd be able to find out the account details with D that were some years old  
particularly when Mr A has denied ever setting it up in the first place. The scenario where 
someone set up an account in Mr As name and is then able to obtain his debit card details 
years later seems highly unlikely. 
Whilst Im sure Mr A will disagree with me, when Ive considered all the evidence , my 
objective conclusion is that I think its more likely than not, that Mr A was responsible for 
making these transactions and it follows that it was reasonable for Barclays to hold him liable 
for them.
Non receipt of chargeback letter.
Mr A also thought Barclays hadnt dealt with the chargeback properly because they didnt 
give him an opportunity to respond when D sent their evidence. Barclays have said they sent 
the letter and have produced a copy of the covering letter, but theres some doubt raised in 
their own records about whether it was actually sent. So, its not clear if the evidence ever 
reached Mr A within the timeframe laid out in the letter. The chargeback process has strict 
timings and when Barclays hadnt received any further response from Mr A, they were no 
longer able to challenge the payments on Mr As behalf. 
What that means in practice is that Barclays needed to be able to show that Mr A wasnt 
responsible with evidence they could send back as part of the chargeback process. Barclays 
resent the evidence to Mr A after the deadline had passed but their records show that they 
didnt receive anything further from Mr A. So, whilst its unclear if Mr A had been given a 
chance to provide further evidence, I dont think this changed the ultimate outcome. Thats because the information supplied by D and Barclays shows it was unlikely to be anyone 
other than Mr A that made the transaction.
It was unlikely that the chargeback could have been successful due to the evidence supplied 
by D. So, I dont think Mr As chargeback claim was disadvantaged, whether he received the 
evidence or not, because the evidence from D and Barclays showed Mr A was likely linked 
to the account and hed made the payments. 
Ive also examined all the information supplied by Mr A in the course of his complaint and if I 
thought that he wasnt responsible for the transactions, I would have instructed Barclays to 
refund them. But, as Ive already explained, Ive found that Mr A was more likely than not 
responsible for them and I wont be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman