DRN-3121381
The complaint
Mr Ns representative, a Claims Management Company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was given unsuitable investment advice by HSBC UK Bank Plc.
 
What happened
In late September 2020, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below 
and forms part of my final decision:  
Im unable to safely say that the recommendation to invest in the 1997 PEP was unsuitable. 
However, I think the recommendation to invest in the 1998 PEP was unsuitable.
As HSBC has now upheld the complaint about the second PEP, the only issue for me to
consider in respect of it is redress. Having done so, I think HSBC should calculate redress
using the average rate from fixed rate bonds benchmark, with 8% simple interest.
Before I explain my decision, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Ns strength of
feeling about this matter. The CMC has provided submissions to support this complaint,
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings
focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by him and the business, and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and
reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but Im
not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats
more likely than not to have happened.
Given the history of this case, I think that all the salient points that could be made, have
been made, by both HSBC and the CMC in relation to whether (or not) the recommendations
were suitable, so I dont intend to repeat them here.
Its fair to say that certain questions were asked of Mr N to arrive at the conclusion that he
was a balanced risk investor, however Im unable to safely say that this was an accurate
reflection of his attitude to risk. Whilst I dont think Mr N was risk averse, in other words, that
he wasnt willing to take any risk at all with his money in order to make a gain, I dont think
he was willing to take any more than a small risk with his money.
However, on the face of the evidence, and on balance, it seems to me that Mr N was
prepared to invest his money for the short to medium term  with a guaranteed minimum
(15%) return plus his capital  with a chance to receive four times as much.
In other words, a guaranteed 15% return, meant that Mr N wasnt at risk of no return at all,
and based on what HSBC says, this was an opportunity to maximise his potential of capital
growth in a tax efficient way  unlike a number of similar products on the market that dont
offer any guaranteed returns and are solely dependent on the stockmarket.
I also note it was recorded that Mr Ns priority was to invest a lump sum into the capital
protected PEP being offered, in order to take advantage of the limited offer.
Despite what the CMC says, Im not persuaded that Mr N would  more likely (than not) 
have gone for the fixed rate bond in the alternative, assuming hed been provided with the
information on it. I should make clear that Im unable to safely say whether (or not) he was
provided with information about alternative products.
However, its only with the benefit of hindsight that we know for sure that the investment
wasnt going to achieve anywhere near the 60% return upon maturity in 2002. But this
doesnt mean the recommendation is now unsuitable.
Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr N, with all the protections in place, wasnt prepared to
take that chance in 1997  despite being an inexperienced investor (as suggested by the
CMC)  knowing that his capital (the greater majority of his redundancy pay) was safe, and
he was guaranteed to make at least a 15% return, come what may. Therefore, on balance, I
cant uphold this part of the complaint.
Im aware that HSBC has now upheld the complaint in respect of the 1998 PEP, and
therefore the only issue for me to consider in respect of it, is redress. For the record, whilst I
appreciate HSBCs reasons, I dont think that Mr N shouldve been advised to invest another
£5,000, in another PEP, so soon after his first investment. Therefore, in the circumstances,
despite what HSBC says, I think it should pay redress based on the average rate from fixed
rate bonds.
I appreciate that Mr N will be unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion to the investigator,
but I still havent given him what he wants. I realise my decision isnt what he wants to 
hear
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional decision and providing 
any further information or argument. 
The CMC responded and agreed with my provisional decision. It had no further points to 
make. 
HSBC also responded but disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, it said:
Its original offer is fair and reasonable. 
The advice was provided in April 1998 and not in January 1998 as I had suggested in 
my provisional decision. 
Mr N invested with the business in 1996, 1997 and 1998 utilising his tax allowance. 
Investing a short while after one investment isnt unusual. On balance, this was a 
good way to ensure he wasnt paying additional tax on his money. If Mr N had left his 
money in a savings account, he wouldve incurred tax. 
I agreed that Mr N was prepared to take a risk, but my redress methodology is based 
on no risk. 
In 1996, Mr Ns attitude to risk was recorded as medium and his objective was 
capital growth. The fact find for 1997 is missing and therefore its not clear what his 
attitude to risk was, but it would seem not to have changed. Mr N was still looking for 
tax efficiency and capital growth. By 1998, Mr N had invested in two previous tax 
years and had some experience, and his attitude to risk was recorded as medium. 
Theres always a risk whether (or not) a customer invests in a capital protected investments. The business wont know how markets are likely to perform. Its just 
unfortunate that the investment in question didnt perform better. 
Its still prepared to offer redress based on Mr N investing into the International Equity 
111 capital protected investment product, based on him willing to take a low risk, 
which is on the basis he was willing to take a medium risk on two other separate 
occasions. 
It only accepts that the International Equity 111 was unsuitable based mainly around 
the returns being unclear and what he wouldve received after smoothing. But thats 
not to say he shouldnt have invested in the PEP. 
Given his higher rate tax status, and no suggestion that it was about to change, the 
advice to invest in the PEP was most feasible. He could afford to invest, had enough 
cash reserve, and capacity for loss. His attitude to risk was balanced which confirms 
he wanted a moderate risk to his capital. Mr N also discounted other products in 
favour of the PEP.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, considering the new submissions, my decision to uphold this complaint 
remains the same, as set out in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
In other words, no new points have been made that persuade me to change my decision. In 
this instance and on balance, Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. 
Im mindful of HSBCs disappointment regarding the investigators change in view from a 
non-uphold to an uphold. But Im also mindful that as a consequence it partially upheld the 
complaint but disagreed with redress.    
It seems I erroneously suggested that the advice was given in January 1998, I apologise for 
that oversight. Notwithstanding what HSBC says, I still dont think the advice to invest in the 
1998 PEP was suitable. I appreciate what HSBC says about the potential tax benefits for Mr 
N, but at that stage  having previously invested in 1996 and 1997  I dont think he ought to 
have been advised to invest any more money. I note in 1997, hed already invested £9,000 
in total, which on balance I didnt think was unsuitable. 
I apologise if I wasnt clear on the point of redress. In my provisional decision I said: 
For the record, whilst I appreciate HSBCs reasons, I dont think that Mr N shouldve been 
advised to invest another £5,000, in another PEP, so soon after his first investment. 
Therefore, in the circumstances, despite what HSBC says, I think it should pay redress 
based on the average rate from fixed rate bonds.
Given that I still dont think Mr N shouldve been advised to invest, I dont think the redress 
based on the average rate from fixed rate bonds is unsuitable, even if he was willing to take 
a risk with his money in respect of other investments. In the circumstances, and on balance, 
I also dont think the tax objectives HSBC refers to are material considerations for the funds 
that I think Mr N ought not to have been advised to invest. 
So, whilst I appreciate HSBCs reasons for upholding the complaint  based mainly onthe proviso around the returns being very unclear what adjusted smoothed fund returns Mr 
N (name anonymised) would have actually received, on this particular product  I dont 
entirely agree with its basis.  
Given the background of this complaint, I also dont agree that just because Mr N was 
(purportedly) willing to take a medium risk on two previous occasions, that redress should 
now be based on him willing to take a small risk with the PEP in 1998, when on balance I 
dont think he shouldve been advised to invest at all.    
Previously HSBC commented that if Mr N had kept his money in a deposit-based account, 
hed have to shop around regularly, to try and find the best rate for his account. But that 
would be a matter for him entirely. 
Whether or not Mr H could afford to invest or had capacity to replace loss, given the likely 
source of his income, doesnt in my opinion make an unsuitable investment suitable. 
Therefore, for the reason set out above, and in my provisional decision, notwithstanding 
what HSBC says, I uphold this complaint. 
  
Putting things right
In the respect of the 1998 PEP which has matured, HSBC UK Bank Plc should calculate and
pay Mr N redress using the average rate from fixed rate bond benchmark, from the date of
investment to the date of payment, with 8% simple interest per year on any loss from the end
date to the date of settlement.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. 
HSBC UK Bank Plc should calculate and pay Mr N redress as set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman