DRN-4185388
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Santander UK Plc dealt with his claim for compensation under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to a defective car.
What happened
In November 2022 Mr B bought a used car, and he paid a £950 deposit using his Santander 
credit card. That deposit included a £200 delivery fee. The cars cash price was £10,750; he 
paid the £10,000 with money he had borrowed from a third party.
It is no longer in dispute that the car was defective when it was delivered. Mr B tried to reject 
it at the time, but instead the dealer insisted that it be allowed to try and repair it, and Mr B 
went along with that. Not only was this repair unsuccessful, but it actually turned out to leave 
the car in a worse condition that before. He tried to reject the car again, but the dealer 
stopped communicating with him. Mr B then asked Santander for a refund, but it declined. 
So he brought this complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. After reviewing all the evidence, he agreed that the 
car had not been of satisfactory quality at the point of sale, and that the repair attempt had 
been unsuccessful (and had even introduced new problems). He thought that Mr B was 
entitled to reject the vehicle and be refunded. He recommended that Santander arrange to 
collect the car at no cost to Mr B, and refund the entire purchase price and the delivery fee, 
with interest on the refunds. He said that Santander should also refund some costs which 
Mr B had incurred for the car being recovered at the roadside and for having the faults 
diagnosed by another garage, again with interest. And he also recommended that Santander 
pay Mr B £200 for his inconvenience.
Santander accepted that opinion and agreed to all of the investigators recommendations, 
with the proviso that interest on the refunded credit card payment should begin to run from 
the date that Mr B had repaid that amount, rather than the date of the purchase. Mr B does 
not agree with that.
Mr B also accepted the investigators opinion, at first. But he later changed his mind and 
asked for more compensation. He also said that as he has lost confidence in Santander and 
in the dealer, he should be paid his refunds first, before the car is collected. That is a sticking 
point for Santander, as it insists that the car should be collected first, before any refund is 
paid. As the parties have reached an impasse on this issue, the investigator referred this 
case for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive said, both sides accept the investigators findings that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of sale, that Santander is liable for that, and that Mr B was entitled to 
reject the car. So there is no reason for me to depart from those findings, and I gratefully 
adopt them here.
I therefore uphold this complaint. It only remains for me to decide what the remedy should 
be.
Putting things right
It is not in dispute that the cost of the car, and the related costs of £1,076.16, should be 
refunded, with interest, and that the car should be collected at no cost to Mr B. The main 
issue between the parties is in what order those things should take place. Also, Mr B has 
asked for more compensation.
I will deal with the latter point first. I think that full refunds, with simple interest at eight 
percent a year, plus another £200 for inconvenience, is probably about what I myself would 
have awarded if our investigator had not upheld this complaint. So that is what I shall do.
I will follow the investigators method of dealing with the £950 credit card payment separately 
to the balance. In connection with that, the reason for awarding interest on refunds is to 
reimburse Mr B for being without the relevant funds for the period between spending them 
and getting them back; the credit card payment, being a debt, did not deprive him of funds 
until he paid it off, so I think it is fair that interest runs from the date he did that, which is 11 
December 2022.
Turning to whether the refunds should be paid before or after the car is collected, the usual 
practice is for the car to be collected first, and then for the refunds to be paid afterwards 
without delay. So I have thought about whether there is a good reason to proceed differently 
in this case.
I understand why Mr B has lost confidence in Santander and in the garage, and I appreciate 
his strength of feeling in this matter. However, as far as Im aware Santander has never 
failed to comply with an ombudsmans decision, and so I do not believe that it would be 
unsafe to assume that it will comply with this one. Furthermore, Santander has indicated that 
if the garage is reticent about paying the balance of the cost of the car, then Santander will 
assume responsibility for this and recover the money itself, rather than making it Mr Bs 
problem. So Im satisfied that Santander is dealing with this complaint in good faith, and 
accordingly I will say that the refunds and compensation are contingent on the car being 
collected first.
Mr B has, understandably, expressed concern about the fact that the repair attempt left the 
car in an even worse condition than when he first received it. He is also worried about what 
will happen if the car is damaged in transit back to the garage. However, neither of these 
things should be his problem. Santander is aware of the outcome of the repair attempt, 
which the investigator described in detail in his decision; and since the dealer caused the 
new problems, the dealer is no doubt aware of them and Mr B is of course not liable for 
them. And once the vehicle has been removed from Mr Bs property, any accidents which 
occur while it is being transported will be nothing to do with him. Neither of these issues will 
affect his compensation. So Im satisfied that he will not be disadvantaged by the remedy 
I have set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to:
Collect the car from Mr B at no cost to him, promptly and at a mutually convenient 
time; and then:Refund the £950 deposit, with simple interest on that refund at the rate of 8% a year, 
calculated from 11 December 2022 to the date of settlement;
Pay Mr B the balance of the purchase price of the car (£10,000), together with 
interest on that sum at 8% a year from the date of purchase to the date of settlement;
Rework Mr Bs credit card as if he hadnt used it to pay £950 of the purchase price, 
refunding any credit balances that may result plus simple interest on any such credit 
balances at 8% a year from the date the balances result to the date of settlement;
Refund £1,076.16 (being the total of Mr Bs sundry costs in connection with 
recovering and diagnosing the vehicle), with simple interest at 8% a year from the 
various dates of payment to the date of settlement;1 and
Pay Mr B £200 for his inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
1 I believe that Santander already has the relevant invoices that make up this sum, but if I am 
mistaken then these will be supplied on request.