DRN-2189135
The complaint
Mrs S complained that Zurich Insurance plc (Zurich) have rejected her claim for accidental 
damage under her property insurance. 
What happened
 Mrs S made a claim to Zurich on her property insurance for the collapsed roof on her 
garage following a water leak. She lived in a maisonette and her garage was en-bloc with a 
flat roof. Mrs S said the damage was caused by negligence of the landlord who owned the 
neighbouring garage. She said he failed to maintain his roof properly and the cause of her 
roof collapsing was due to a collection of water on the neighbours garage roof. 
Mrs S said that Zurich had originally said that the claim would have been covered if her own 
garage had been maintained properly. Her own garage roof had been replaced around nine 
years earlier. She said that when two companies quoted for the work to fix her roof both had 
commented that it was generally in good condition.
Zurich said the damage was caused gradually due to water on her own flat roof and this had 
rotted the joists, so the claim was not covered by the insurance policy. But Mrs S challenged 
this as she said there is drainage in her roof, so she cant understand why the claim wasnt 
settled. Zurich also said the collapse of the neighbouring garage roof was inevitable due to 
lack of maintenance and therefore the damage to Mrs Ss roof cant be considered as 
accidental.
Our investigator looked at the case in detail and upheld Mrs Ss complaint. Our investigator 
chased Zurich on multiple occasions after his investigation for information that Zurich said 
they would provide to support their case. This hasnt been provided. Also, Zurich havent 
responded to our investigators view, so the case has been passed to an ombudsman to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have started my review of this complaint by looking at the cause of the damage. I have 
relied on the description provided by a roofing company as the most likely explanation of 
what happened to Mrs Ss roof: 
The damage was caused by the fact that the shared roof rain water outlets became
blocked by debris and stones and the funnel become blocked and created
permanent water paddle on flat roof.
I have looked at whose responsibility it was to maintain the shared roof drainage system. 
The property management company who leased the garages confirmed it was the 
leaseholders responsibility. I reviewed the lease which includes the property boundaries and 
looking at the photos provided, the shared drainage system looks like it falls within the 
neighbours boundary. Therefore, I think it is reasonable to assume its the responsibility of 
the leaseholder (of the neighbouring property) for maintaining the drainage system.
Zurich have rejected the claim on the basis the damage was done gradually, which suggests 
to me that they are happy the incident falls under accidental damage which is an insured 
peril of the policy, but they said it fails on one of their exclusion clauses. I have checked Mrs 
Ss policy, and it does state that accidental damage is covered, but damage due to gradual 
deterioration was excluded.
The damage does appear to be gradual in nature. The drainage pipe over time appears to 
have become blocked which has caused a water build up on the neighbours garage and this 
has spilled over and caused gradual damage to Mrs Ss garage. However, the gradual 
damage to her garage has been caused from her neighbours landlord not maintaining his 
own garage. Therefore, it doesnt seem fair to me for Zurich not to cover Mrs Ss claim for 
something that was outside of her control. Generally, we think it is fair for an insurer to  cover 
claims when the policyholder cant do anything to mitigate the damage. 
I have looked further into whether it is fair for Zurich to rely on the gradual deterioration 
exclusion clause. Mrs S was aware that the lack of maintenance to her neighbours garage 
could have a knock-on impact to her garage. However, she has acted to try and mitigate 
this. When she had her own garage roof re-felted, she complained to the landlord of the 
neighbouring garage about this, but she said the landlord failed to address her concerns. 
Since the damage to Mrs Ss garage was caused by issues on the neighbouring garage and 
she had tried to get her neighbour to rectify this, I dont think it is fair for Zurich not to settle 
this claim. Therefore, I am upholding this complaint.
Putting things right
The fair and reasonable outcome is for Zurich to settle Mrs Ss claim for damage to her 
garage, up to any policy limits and deducting any applicable excess. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Zurich Insurance plc to settle Mrs Ss claim for damage to her garage, up to any 
policy limits and deducting any applicable excess. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Peter Averill
Ombudsman