DRN-3325764
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Mortimer Clarke Solicitors Limited (Mortimer Clarke) unfairly 
threatened to take legal action to recover a debt. 
What happened
Mortimer Clarke was instructed by a third party business to collect a debt in Mrs Ks name. 
The original debt came about by way of an unsecured loan. Mortimer Clarke wrote to Mrs K 
in 2015 and gave notice of its intention to take legal action to recover the debt. Mortimer 
Clarke says no payment plan was agreed so it took the decision to pursue the matter in 
court. But Mortimer Clarke didnt refer the matter to the courts and it remained on hold. 
In December 2020 Mortimer Clarke contacted Mrs K again and asked her to clear the 
outstanding balance. Mrs K made a partial settlement offer but it was rejected. Mortimer 
Clarke made a counter offer and Mrs K asked for more time so she could raise funds via a 
remortgage. Mortimer Clarke told Mrs K it would continue to pursue legal action unless she 
could make a payment to settle the debt. 
Mrs K complained and Mortimer Clarke sent a final response. Mortimer Clarke apologised 
for incorrectly telling Mrs K its client had issued instructions to obtain a County Court 
Judgement (CCJ) and offered £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs K later agreed a payment plan and Mortimer Clarke and referred her complaint to this 
service. In its file submission, Mortimer Clarke confirmed it wanted to increase its offer in 
recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to £300. Our investigator thought 
Mortimer Clarkes offer was a fair way to resolve Mrs Ks complaint but she didnt agree and 
asked to appeal. As a result, Mrs Ks complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
concerning the key events in this case. I want to assure Mrs K Ive read and considered 
everything shes told us in submitting her complaint. Ive focused on what I think are the key 
issues in this case  an approach that reflects the informal nature of this service. 
I agree the service provided by Mortimer Clarke was poor at times. Mortimer Clarke 
contacted Mrs K about repayment in 2015 and 2016 but then appear to have done nothing to 
collect the debt until December 2020 when it wrote to her. And Mortimer Clarke has 
confirmed it didnt have an instruction to pursue Mrs K in court when it spoke with her last 
year. Mrs K has explained the threat of legal action caused an unreasonable level of distress 
and I dont doubt thats the case. Im please Mortimer Clarke has now reached an affordable 
payment arrangement with Mrs K. 
I need to decide how to fairly resolve Mrs Ks complaint. Whilst I agree the service provided 
was poor, Mortimer Clarke recently increased its offer to settle Mrs Ks complaint from £150 
to £300. Ive considered everything Mrs K has told us about how the situation affected her 
and the upset caused by Mortimer Clarkes actions. 
Whilst I know my decision is likely to come as a disappointment to Mrs K, Im satisfied the 
increased offer is a fair way to resolve her complaint. In my view, £300 reflects the impact of 
the issues raised and distress caused to Mrs K. As Mortimer Clarke has already made an 
offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances, Im not telling it to increase the 
settlement or take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ks complaint and direct Mortimer Clarke Solicitors Limited 
to pay a total of £300 (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman