DRN-3578053
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) recorded a fraud prevention 
marker against her. She says that she didnt know the funds in question were fraudulent.
Background
In late April 2020 and early May 2020, Miss As Barclays account received six payments, 
totalling £850, from two third-parties. Barclays subsequently received notifications from the 
banks which sent the funds confirming that its customers had been tricked into making the 
payments. Barclays reviewed Miss As account, decided to close it and also record a fraud 
prevention marker against Miss A.
After learning that Barclays had recorded a fraud prevention marker against her, Miss A 
complained to Barclays. Barclays looked at Miss As complaint and didnt uphold it. As     
Miss A remained dissatisfied, she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns. She didnt think that Barclays had 
done enough to show that Miss A was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Miss A. Barclays didnt respond and so the complaint was passed 
to an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next stage of our dispute resolution process.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Barclays has filed with is intended to record that theres been a misuse of 
facility  relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a 
marker, it isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss A is guilty of a fraud or 
financial crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or 
concern. The relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Barclays must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Miss As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Barclays also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss A was deliberately dishonest 
in receiving any fraudulent payments and knew they were, or might be, illegitimate 
payments. This can include Miss A allowing someone else to use her account in order to 
receive illegitimate payments. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who 
was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Barclays had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss As account and that she was 
complicit in this. Its important to note Barclays had to have enough evidence to meet both 
parts of test for it to have acted fairly and reasonably.
Having considered matters here, there doesnt appear to be any dispute that Miss As 
account was in receipt of fraudulent funds in April 2020 and May 2020. So I can understand 
why Barclays had concerns about Miss As account usage and decided to carry out a review. 
However, as Ive already explained, this in itself isnt enough to register a fraud prevention 
marker against a customer. Barclays also has to produce sufficient evidence to show Miss A 
was complicit in fraud. And I dont think that it has done that here.
Miss A has explained that she was in contact with someone who said that they would help 
her get involved in trading. She further explained that she was told to provide her account 
details and she should transfer the funds on. Miss A has provided some of the messages 
she exchanged in support of her version of events. Our adjudicator found Miss As version of 
events plausible and she thought that Miss A was unwittingly involved in fraud, rather than it 
being the case that she was complicit in it. 
Ive thought about what the parties have said. 
I want to start by saying that I accept it is possible Miss A was actively involved in the 
fraudulent activity in the way Barclays says she was. But the important thing to remember is 
that it is Barclays responsibility to demonstrate that Miss A was knowingly part of the fraud. 
And I think that it has failed to do that here. 
Barclays needs to have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to 
the police. In other words, a reasonable suspicion that Miss A knew fraud would take place 
when she provided her account details. Simply pointing out that fraud took place and that 
Miss A transferred the funds in question, when shes never denied this is the case, just isnt 
enough to meet what is a high-bar. This is especially the case seeing as the messages    
Miss A has provided, which also appear to indicate that she lost some of her own funds, 
suggests that her version of events here isnt implausible.   
Furthermore, there isnt any evidence indicating that Miss A made a financial gain either as 
the fraudulent funds in question were transferred elsewhere. Indeed, the content of the 
messages Miss A has provided suggests that she might well have lost some of her own 
money as a result of what happened. I would question why Miss A would risk some of her 
own funds if she was knowingly participating in fraud.
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Barclays had sufficient evidence 
to meet the test for recording a fraud marker against Miss A. As this is the case, I think that it 
was unfair for Barclays to record a fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. 
So Im upholding Miss As complaint and Barclays needs to remove any and all fraud 
markers it has recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Miss As complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should remove any and all fraud markers it has recorded against Miss A. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman