DRN-3652362
The complaint
Mrs D complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited hasnt paid as much 
of her legal expenses as she was expecting and hasnt complied with a previous opinion of 
this service.
What happened
Mrs D has previously brought a complaint to this service following a claim on her legal 
expenses insurance (LEI). The investigator looking at that complaint (the original 
investigator) issued a view on 18 July 2019 in which he recommended:
DAS LEI to:
obtain and pay for a retrospective barristers opinion on the prospects of this case; 
and if positive they should:
i) put cover in place for the claim going forward; this can be in line with their standard 
terms of appointment which will need to be agreed with [Mrs Ds] chosen firm;
ii) backdate cover to 13 April 2019 for reasonable costs up to the limit of indemnity of 
the policy. As Ive said, I dont think [Mrs Ds] legal fees should be limited to DAS 
LEIs standard terms of appointment during this period.
Pay compensation of £100 for incorrectly asking for information they already had and 
sending this request to an incorrect email address. This has caused a delay in [Mrs 
D] being able to progress with the claim under the policy.
Following this view DAS agreed to pay approximately £11,000 in legal costs to Mrs D. She 
had however incurred approximately £20,000 in legal costs plus having to pay a further 
£1,000 to her solicitors to collate all the information requested. When DAS received details 
of Mrs Ds costs it referred the breakdown for the invoices to its costs unit. The costs unit 
went through the invoices and marked them up to show what they would and wouldnt pay. 
DAS explained it wouldnt be paying all the costs because some were incurred prior to the 
date referred to in the investigators opinion (i.e. 13 April 2019) and it also wouldnt be paying 
some costs which came after the investigators opinion which werent approved (for example 
administrative work) or where the costs unit thought the time recorded should be reduced.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied that DAS has 
abided by the previous opinion and was entitled to follow the advice of the professional 
opinion of its costs draftsman. She said that Mrs D would however be entitled to appoint her 
own costs draftsman to prepare a report if she wished to dispute this.
Mrs D strongly disagrees with the investigators view. Mrs D thought that as the investigator 
had used the words: 'I dont think [Mrs Ds] legal fees should be limited to DAS LEIs 
standard terms of appointment during this period' that her legal fees should not be limited to 
DAS's standard terms.
Although, she accepts she should have questioned the date 13 April 2019 at the time she 
received the original investigators view, she says she did not realise at that time that DAS 
would use this to deny her more than half of the legal fees she had actually paid.
She thinks the heart of the previous view was as stated in that view:
'Ive already explained in my previous view that I think DAS LEI couldve handled this claim 
better. And I upheld the complaint.'
She says if you combine this view along with the direction to reinstate the cover in 
retrospect, it is clear that the crux of the decision is to reinstate the cover in its entirety.
She doesnt want to instruct her own costs draftsman as she has already had to pay £1,000 
to her lawyers to provide the information DAS wanted and she wonders what is the 
guarantee that DAS would accept what her draftsman said.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs Ds frustration here, her previous complaint against DAS was upheld by the 
original investigator and now she finds that not all her legal costs are to be met by DAS. For 
this decision, I need to look at what DAS has done following the previous investigators view.
Mrs D has said that she thinks the original investigator intended her cover to be reinstated in 
its entirety. I dont think that is what the investigator intended. I think the investigator made 
clear that costs incurred before 13 April 2019 wouldnt be included. I also think he made 
clear that costs incurred after his view would be assessed on the standard basis.
Looking at what DAS has done since 18 July 2019 I dont think I can say it has acted 
unfairly. It sent the information provided to it regarding Mrs Ds costs to its costs unit and that 
unit went through the costs and worked out which costs DAS was responsible for paying 
based on the investigators view of 18 July 2019. It has explained to Mrs D in a reasonable 
amount of detail why it has offered to pay what it has offered. As the investigator explained, 
it remains open to Mrs D to appoint her own costs draftsman to do an assessment. But in the 
absence of a second expert opinion on costs which contradicts the first expert opinion I have 
no basis to say that what DAS has offered to pay is unfair. So, I do not intend to uphold this 
complaint.
Mrs D has asked that  if I didnt uphold her complaint - I direct DAS to pay her what it 
offered. As I am not upholding the complaint I cant do that, but I would expect that DAS will 
pay her what it has offered soon and if it doesnt do so she can bring a complaint to this 
service.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman