DRN-4008955
The complaint
Miss K complains National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly kept hold of a payment which they 
shouldnt have. She wants the payment returned.
What happened
The facts surrounding Miss Ks complaint are well known to both parties. In summary:
Miss K held several accounts with NatWest, including a current account with an 
overdraft balance.
Miss K began experiencing financial difficulty and used a third-party organisation to 
agree a debt management plan (DMP) with her creditors, which included NatWest.
NatWest closed her current account, but the debt from her overdraft remained, along 
with other debts. She recalls NatWest later selling her debt on.
Miss K received a payment from a person who she says was her friend in early 
August 2021. She says the sender did not know her NatWest account had closed, 
and they sent the payment without first getting Miss Ks go ahead. The money was 
intended to buy gifts for the senders family in Nigeria. A mutual friend was staying 
with Miss K at the time and would return with the gifts. 
Miss K called NatWest the day the payment was received to request its return. She 
provided a screen shot from the senders account showing the payment being made.
NatWest failed to return the payment. The sender attempted a recall, but their bank 
said NatWest werent returning the payment because Miss K hadnt responded to 
their contact. Miss K says this led to a dispute with the sender which became 
abusive, and which affected her considerably.
Miss K complained on several occasions to NatWest. NatWest apologised for the 
length of time it was taking to review matters, as well as some other service issues.
Ultimately NatWest have refused to return the payment, and it was used to offset part 
of Miss Ks overdraft debt.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. They found Miss K hadnt suffered a 
financial loss because she said the payment was not intended for her and it had been used 
to lessen her debt.
Miss K disagreed with the outcome. She said she repaid the sender via their mutual friend 
and had not missed a DMP payment. She says she suffered great distress due to this 
matter, as evidenced by the police checking on her after she expressed she was suicidal to 
NatWest. She says NatWest didnt tell her they had offset her debt. She asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman, so her complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ks complaint. I wont be requiring NatWest to return the 
payment. Ill explain why.
Miss K received and made payments to her former friend in the past. On balance, I 
havent seen sufficient information to conclude the payment she received in August 
2021 wasnt intended for her use.
Miss K has a copy of a letter from the senders bank, showing there was a recall 
request. But there are other plausible explanations to account for the payment and 
recall. For example, the sender may indeed have made the payment to the wrong 
account, but the funds could still have been intended for Miss K. Its also possible the 
recall request was prompted so that Miss K could receive the funds via an alternative 
route.
I find there is insufficient proof that Miss K repaid the sender. The statements she 
sent our investigator show her crediting one account in her name from presumably 
another of her accounts, and then transferring payments out. 
Cumulatively the payments surpass the sum of the payment the sender made. But 
the statements taken in isolation dont identify the recipient or establish that the 
payments were to repay the sender. Neither do they show that there arent other 
payments being made at other times, which may not support what Miss K says. She 
said we can contact her mutual friend, but it was for her to provide persuasive 
evidence to prove she repaid the sender. I find she hasnt.
Miss K hasnt provided records of communication with the sender or mutual friend. I 
appreciate she says she no longer has messages from when the dispute with the 
sender arose. So, I have not weighed this against her. But its less likely there arent 
some records, such as emails, or messages with the sender or mutual friend from 
when Miss K made what she says are repayments in November 2022 and January 
2023. Its reasonable to expect there to have been some dialogue about how and 
when the payments were to be made to the sender over a year after the original 
payment was sent.
Miss K entered a DMP with an external organisation that included NatWest as a 
creditor. But a creditor is not obliged to only accept payments under the plan  its 
ultimately an informal arrangement for non-priority debts. And, in view of the payment 
NatWest received and there being insufficient proof to show the payment wasnt 
intended for Miss K, its not unreasonable for those funds to have been used to partly 
repay some of the total debt she owed. I have also borne in mind that Miss K would 
have always had to repay her debt, so its hard to equate any payments she might 
have made to the sender as a financial loss. 
I dont find that reducing the overall debt Miss K owed NatWest necessarily means 
her DMP payments would reduce or that NatWest did anything wrong because those 
payments didnt reduce. If she thinks her payments to her plan provider should have 
reduced that would be a matter for her to discuss with them.
I was sorry to hear about how Miss K says she was affected by this matter, and I agree it 
would have been helpful for NatWest to have told her they offset her overdraft debt using the 
payment. But on balance I dont find their decision is unfair, and I am not going to direct 
them to pay her compensation as a result  its likely she would have always experienced 
upset and inconvenience due to the action they took.My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman