DRN-3249834
The complaint
Mr T complains that FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd (FCA) irresponsibly granted him a 
loan he couldnt afford to repay.
 
What happened
In December 2018, Mr T took receipt of a car that he financed through a hire purchase 
agreement with FCA. Mr T was required to make 59 monthly repayments of £255.40, with a 
final payment of £654.40 which included a payment to secure ownership of the vehicle if he 
wanted to at the end of the agreement. The total repayable under the agreement was 
£15,723.
Mr T says that FCA didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it would 
have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. FCA didnt agree. It said that it carried out a 
thorough assessment. It had reviewed Mr Ts bank statements for the period immediately 
before the approval date and had looked at his credit file. It noted that his income was about 
£1,458 per month but had reduced to about £1,049 in the month prior to the application. FCA 
thought, even with this reduced income the loan was still affordable for Mr T.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought FCA ought to have 
realised the agreement wasnt affordable for Mr T.
FCA didnt agree and said the average salary was actually £1,155 per month and that Mr Ts 
expenditure would have reduced by £101 per month as he was paying off a credit 
agreement. They said, together these issues would increase his monthly disposable income 
by £207 and that the agreement was therefore affordable. 
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FCA will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Before granting the finance, I think FCA gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information about Mr Ts ability to repay. I say this because it established his income and 
expenditure through bank statements and reviewed his credit file. However, just because 
I think it carried out proportionate checks, it doesnt automatically mean it made a fair lending 
decision. So, Ive thought about what the evidence and information showed. 
FCA had copies of Mr Ts bank statements. The average monthly income was £1,155 and 
Mr T had existing financial commitments of about £573 once payments for direct debits, rent, 
utilities, broadband/entertainment and insurance were taken into account. The loan he had 
for £101 per month didnt need to be factored in as it was being settled. That left a monthly 
disposable income of about £582 from which food, petrol, car tax and maintenance, car 
insurance (expensive given Mr Ts young age), and the new loan of £255 per month would 
need to be financed. I think this gave a clear indication that Mr T wasnt in a position to afford 
the repayments towards the new agreement without experiencing difficulty or having to 
borrow further. FCA therefore didnt make a fair lending decision.
I understand that Mr T was able to make the committed repayments for some months but 
that, in itself, doesnt mean the loan was affordable sustainably and without Mr T 
experiencing difficulty or having to borrow further.
Putting things right
As I dont think FCA ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr T should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £10,389. Anything Mr T has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment. 
To settle Mr Ts complaint FCA should do the following:
End the agreement with nothing more to pay and transfer ownership of the car to    
Mr T.
Refund any payments Mr T has made in excess of £10,389, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires FCA to take off tax from this interest. FCA must give Mr T 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr T asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct FCA Automotive Services UK Ltd to put things right in the 
manner set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman