DRN-2571702
The complaint
Mr H complains that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) didnt advise him to 
move his investments when they performed badly. He says hes suffered a loss in 
investment growth as a result and hasnt received a service for the fees hes paid. 
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and as such I have only included 
a brief summary below.
In 2012 SJP advised Mr H to move his pension funds into a retirement account so 
that he could access a tax-free cash lump sum. At that time, they assessed Mr Hs 
attitude to investment risk and recommended he invest in their deferred income 
portfolio. Mr H followed SJPs advice.
In 2018 Mr H became concerned about the performance of his funds. When 
compared to his wifes investment returns, he felt his investments had performed 
badly. Mr H says, as he was paying a fee for on-going advice, SJP were contractually 
bound to review his pension and should have advised him to invest differently when 
his funds started to perform badly.
By 2019 Mr H had raised a complaint with SJP about their actions. In their 
responses, SJP said Mr Hs funds were due to be invested for the medium to long 
term. They said they had a long-term strategy with an aim of riding out any short-term 
volatility in the market. But as a gesture of goodwill, they offered to refund Mr Hs on-
going adviser charges from 2018 and 2019 (rounded to £2,250) and pay £1,000 for 
any trouble and upset theyd caused. SJP also later sent Mr H a comparison of his 
funds performance against their own funds and other benchmarks. 
 Mr H wasnt satisfied with SJPs responses and so brought his complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator first partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think SJP had a 
contractual agreement for ongoing advice with Mr H as the plan was set up before 
the Retail Distribution Review (RDR). But he thought SJP had agreed to invite Mr H 
for yearly reviews of his pension and he didnt think SJP had invited Mr H for a review 
in 2016. So, he asked that SJP also refund the adviser fees from 2016.
SJP sent us a copy of the drawdown plan annual review they sent Mr H in 2016. It 
included an invitation for a review of Mr Hs pension. So, SJP said they hadnt made 
an error in 2016 but still offered to refund the fees if Mr H agreed to resolve the 
complaint at that time. 
Our investigator was satisfied with SJPs response and so concluded that SJPs 
original offer of redress was fair.
Mr H disagreed. In summary he said SJP had failed to provide on-going advice when 
they should have. He said SJP should reimburse him the fees that they took for 
services they did not provide. He said because SJP didnt act, he was left worse off 
than he would have otherwise been. 
As Mr H disagreed with our investigators view, the case has been passed to me for a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr H has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr H and SJP, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time.
SJP have said they didnt charge Mr H on-going fees because his plan was set up before the 
Retail Distribution Review (RDR). So, they received commission (through product charges) 
instead. SJP sent us their Key Facts document from 2012. The document says, the charges 
on the products are partly used to provide us with direct remuneration and administration 
services. It goes on to say The remuneration we receive includes payment for providing 
ongoing servicing throughout the term of the plan arranged.
Mr H also said the contract he held with SJP from the inception of his investments in 1995 
said SJP takes a management charge for administering your plan. Its Mr Hs view that 
administrating and servicing do not denote passivity. He feels SJP were contractually 
bound to not sit by and watch his funds perform poorly. 
I think its important to note here that the RDR aimed, amongst other things, to increase the 
transparency and fairness of adviser fees and the services provided in return for those fees. 
Thats because, it wasnt always clear what service was being provided for the fees being 
charged. As it is with this case, terms like administration and servicing often werent clearly 
defined. 
But the RDR marked a change for future contracts and didnt require businesses to go back 
to existing policies and clarify the terms. So, it wouldnt be fair to now define the terms 
administering and servicing (which are quite broad) and hold SJP to account for them. 
However, the RDR isnt the only thing I need to consider here. The regulator at the time of 
the advice - the Financial Services Authority (FSA) set out a number of principles that 
businesses had to follow, including;
 
 Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly. 
 Principle 7  A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.So, even though the advice was given before the RDR, SJP needed to communicate 
information to Mr H that was clear and not misleading. As well as paying due regard for his 
interests. 
SJP sent Mr H a suitability letter in 2012 when they advised him to move into a Retirement 
Account. It said;
We believe that the importance of regular reviews cannot be underestimated where your 
pension planning is concerned.  As such, we will conduct a review of your plan at least 
annually and in particular whenever the income limits are reset.  We will write to you each 
year on the anniversary of your plan to provide you with an annual statement in respect of 
your plan and invite you to contact me so that we can arrange for a review.
I think the suitability letter is quite clear that regardless of how SJP were paid, they 
committed to providing an annual statement and reviewing Mr Hs pension each year. But 
the onus was on Mr H to contact SJP on receipt of his annual statement to arrange the 
review. 
On balance, I think SJP were sufficiently clear as to what their continuing relationship with 
Mr H would be - theyd send him annual statements and offer him the chance for a review. 
And I think its likely that did happen. I say that because SJP have sent us the annual 
drawdown reviews they say they sent to Mr H each September. And SJP also sent a record 
of the meetings they held with Mr H and his wife. Therefore, Im satisfied SJP followed 
Principle 7 and didnt mislead Mr H in their communications with him. 
However, SJP also needed to ensure it paid due regard to Mr Hs interests. So, I think it 
would be reasonable for SJP to have stepped in if they had concerns about the funds Mr H 
was invested in and if they thought he should move them. So, Ive considered whether I think 
should have done that in Mr Hs case. 
Mr H says his funds havent performed well in comparison to his wifes and other 
benchmarks. But Investments in their nature vary in returns. And performance can be 
dependent on many factors  including the stock market for example - which are outside of 
SJPs control. So, the fact that Mr Hs investments have performed worse than others isnt in 
itself evidence that SJP have made an error in not advising him to move.
In order to uphold Mr Hs complaint, Id need to be satisfied that it was clear SJP should 
have advised Mr H to move his investments because they werent meeting his objectives.
In the suitability report SJP created in 2012, they said it was Mr Hs objective to keep his 
funds invested for the medium to long term. SJP didnt promise a certain growth rate or 
guarantee him a specific return. 
    
There are many different techniques and strategies used when selecting and recommending 
investments. Its for SJP to adopt its own strategies, and we wouldnt normally interfere with 
such a commercial decision. SJP have said their strategy was a long-term plan to remain 
invested in the market to iron out any short-term volatility. And while other funds may have 
performed better over the same period, there are no guarantees of future growth.
In one of their responses SJP said; 
5.7% represents a portfolio that is actively managed by independent fund managers, who 
are specialists in their field. If the SJP investment committee had felt that the fund had not been well managed, or the performance in line with its cautious attitude to risk had been 
under par then I can assure you that the investment fund managers would have been 
removed.
So, I think its likely SJP were satisfied with the returns Mr H was receiving. And while they 
may not have outperformed other benchmarks, I cant say SJP had sufficient concerns to 
step and advise Mr H to invest differently. Therefore, while I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr H, I dont think SJP made an error by not recommending he move his 
investments.
Ive also considered whether Mr Hs funds were suitably invested. And Im satisfied that they 
were. His funds were invested in line with his attitude to investment risk. And while Mr H had 
concerns his portfolio wasnt geographically diverse enough, there isnt a prescribed 
percentage of a portfolio which should be invested internationally to make it balanced risk. 
Thats again a matter of SJP exercising their legitimate commercial decision making.  
There was a lot of communication between Mr H and SJP throughout 2018 and 2019. At that 
time Mr H was keen to see how his funds had performed against his wifes and other 
benchmarks over different time periods. While Mr Hs requests were quite clear, it doesnt 
seem that SJP provided the comparisons Mr H asked for  or explained why they couldnt. 
SJP werent obliged to compare Mr Hs funds to others in the market. And, as Ive explained, 
even if such comparison showed his funds hadnt perform as well as others, that doesnt 
mean Mr H should have been advised to switch funds. 
However, I think SJP could have explained that to Mr H earlier than it did. It wasnt until he 
had made his complaints to SJP that he was given clearer explanations. So, I think SJP 
caused Mr H some upset and inconvenience that could have been prevented. But SJP have 
already offered Mr H £1,000 for any trouble and upset they caused him. And I think that fairly 
reflects the upset and inconvenience caused by SJP, so I wont ask them to do anything 
more.
I havent upheld Mr Hs complaint about the performance of his fund. So, Im unable to direct 
SJP to repay the fees. But SJP offered to refund the fees from 2018 and 2019 which they 
originally calculated as £2,250. While SJP have now said the 2018 fees were miscalculated 
and should have been a much lower figure of £217.95, they indicated that they are willing to 
honour their original offer. So, Mr H should contact SJP if he wishes to now accept their 
offer. 
My final decision
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management PLC has already made an offer to pay £1,000 for the 
trouble and upset they caused to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
So my decision is that St. Jamess Place Wealth Management PLC should pay £1,000.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman