DRN-3554710
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Zopa Bank Limited sent him an email that included his personal 
details.
What happened
Mr G engaged in an online chat with Zopa during which he provided personal information for 
Zopa to confirm his identity. When the online chat finished, Mr G was given the option by 
Zopa to have a copy of the online chat emailed to him. Mr G accepted this option, but when 
he received the email, he noticed that the personal information hed given to Zopa hadnt 
been redacted and was included in the email. Mr G wasnt happy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Zopa looked at Mr Gs complaint. But they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly towards Mr G 
by providing an unredacted copy of the online chat, and so they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Zopas response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that Zopa had 
acted unfairly towards Mr G, and so they also didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I feel that by accepting Zopas offer to receive a copy of the online chat by 
email, Mr G agreed to receive a full copy of that online chat, including the personal 
information that hed given Zopa to enable them to confirm his identity.
I say this because Zopa didnt offer to provide Mr G with a redacted version of the online 
chat, and so I feel it stands to reason that any provision of the online chat sent to Mr G via 
email would be the complete unredacted version of that online chat. I also feel that, had Mr 
G not wanted to receive the full version of the online chat via email, he had the option to 
have declined Zopas offer.
I appreciate that Mr G may have assumed that Zopa would have redacted the online chat 
before sending it, but I dont feel that this assumption is reasonable given the circumstances 
here, including that Zopa made no indication to Mr G that they would redact the online chat, 
as previously explained. 
As such, I feel that it was reasonable for Zopa to have taken Mr Gs acceptance of their offer 
to send a copy of the online chat to Mr G by email as being an acceptance by Mr G that the 
full unredacted transcript of the online chat could be sent. And I feel that it was incumbent on 
Mr G to have clarified with Zopa in advance if he wasnt happy to receive such an 
unredacted transcript, rather than the other way round.
All of which means I dont feel that Zopa have acted unfairly towards Mr G in the manner that 
Mr G contends here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Zopa to take any further action.
I realise this might not be the outcome Mr G was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given 
what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman