DRN-2813955
The complaint
Mr H has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt manage his disputes about debit card 
payments well.
What happened
In 2020 Mr H made a couple of online payments using his debit card which he subsequently 
disputed. 
The first was a payment of £718 which he disputed within two days of the transaction. 
Barclays managed this as a chargeback dispute and raised a claim with the merchant. In line 
with their general procedure they refunded the money to Mr H but warned him it may take six 
to eight weeks to sort out what had happened.
The merchant provided evidence the goods had been delivered to Mr H. Barclays then wrote 
to Mr H to confirm this and supposedly share this evidence. This latter information was 
omitted. Mr H never responded. After a later review in November 2020 Barclays removed 
£718 from Mr Hs current account.
Mr H raised another dispute in October. Hed been unable to return some items to a 
merchant as theyd gone out of business. He asked Barclays to help. They asked for further 
evidence but as they got no further response from Mr H, this claim didnt proceed.
Mr H was unhappy with how Barclays had dealt with his disputes. Barclays had given Mr H 
£100 for not including the evidence theyd received in the first dispute theyd considered. He 
brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence but thought Barclays had met their requirements 
under the chargeback rules. Mr H hadnt responded to them when asked so theyd done 
nothing wrong in closing his disputes and taking back £718 previously credited.
Mr H remained unhappy with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint. Hes also shared correspondence hes been receiving from Barclays about his 
increased overdraft.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a slightly different conclusion to the one our investigator 
reached. I explain below why Ive reached the decision I have. Ive already ensured this has 
been shared with Barclays.
Im aware Mr H knows that when we consider disputes like his, we look at whether the bank 
involved met the rules of chargeback schemes, set up by the international card schemes. 
Ive got no ability to change these rules so must review to see whether Barclays applied 
these fairly when looking at what happened.
A lot of the background and facts of the case were covered in our investigators view of 
18 February 2021. I wont be repeating everything that was said but will concentrate on the 
aspects which impact the decision Im making.
First dispute
Mr H has told us he didnt receive any correspondence from Barclays after he lodged his 
dispute. However I can see Barclays wrote to him on 11 July. This gave Mr H 10 days to 
respond based on the evidence included.
Theres no dispute Barclays didnt include the evidence  theyve paid Mr H £100 in 
compensation for this mistake. However Ive seen nothing which indicates Mr H contacted 
Barclays at this time to query what the evidence may have been or whether he had a further 
opportunity to have his dispute go to arbitration.
As the chargeback schemes operate to quite tight timescales, I think its reasonable that 
Barclays took no further action after theyd not heard from Mr H. Theyve told us they had 
delivery evidence from the merchant. I suspect this would only mean that any further attempt 
to dispute this claim, would have failed at the next level.
Normally with chargeback disputes, money  if the claim proves unsuccessful  is taken 
back within 45 days of the dispute. By their own admission Barclays didnt take back £718 
from Mr H for 5 months after itd credited his account. That will inevitably have come as a 
surprise particularly as Barclays has provided no evidence to show Mr H was warned this 
was about to happen.
I suspect some of Mr Hs current concerns are largely driven by the financial position hes in 
with an increasingly unauthorised overdraft. Whilst Ive seen no evidence the chargeback 
would ever have been successful even with any additional evidence Mr H may have 
provided, I think the late removal of funds will have caused Mr H additional stress and worry.
Second dispute
Again Barclays closed this dispute down as Mr H never responded to their request for 
evidence showing his goods had been returned.
I appreciate Mr H couldnt provide this evidence. The goods werent returned. It doesnt 
seem surprising to me that Barclays took the action they did. I appreciate Mr H is left with 
goods that are unsuitable  and cant return them as the merchant involved is no longer 
operating in the UK but I cant see a basis for the chargeback rules to help him out of this 
problem.
Putting things right
I can see removing £718 from Mr Hs account without warning caused him problems. For 
example, this debit meant that he exceeded his agreed overdraft agreement with Barclays. 
Whilst I agree that the £718 wasnt Mr Hs, I think Barclays needs to pay him a further £150 
for the distress this caused. Mr H will have had little time to make any adjustments to his 
account to counter going further overdrawn.
I appreciate this isnt the answer Mr H was looking for but overall I believe this is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Mr H a further £150 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman