DRN-2262437
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the settlement and handling of his claim for stolen gadgets by 
Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGIL). The gadget warranty is an added extra provided 
by Mr Hs bank account.
What happened
Mr H made a successful claim for some items that were stolen. To settle the phone part of 
his claim AGIL sent Mr H a replacement phone.
When Mr H received the replacement, he noticed the phone had some scratches on it. Mr H 
complained to AGIL. Over the next few days Mr H ended up speaking to several AGIL 
customer service staff members. Mr H was given some conflicting and wrong details during 
these discussions. When Mr H complained about this, he was offered £50 compensation for 
any inconvenience caused.
AGIL reviewed the quality of the replacement phone and confirmed it was in good condition 
and no further action would be taken or further replacement offered. Mr H didnt accept this 
and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. She pointed out that under the rules this service 
couldnt deal with issues regarding the complaint handling as this isnt a regulated activity. 
So, she said that the offer of £50 compensation and an apology based on the errors made 
by AGIL in terms of customer service for the claim was fair.
Mr H didnt accept this and asked for his complaint to be passed on to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear Im only dealing with how AGIL handled Mr Hs claim. Complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity.
Theres no doubt that AGIL couldve dealt with Mr Hs claim better. But it did provide a 
remanufactured replacement phone in line with the policy terms and conditions. It did this 
within a suitable timescale. AGIL did accept that it made some errors in claims handling that 
led to Mr H complaining. But in terms of the replacement phone it agreed to check it again 
and found it was a suitable replacement.
AGIL did accept that it couldve dealt with the claim better from a customer service point of 
view. But AGIL offered £50 compensation for the errors that it made and the inconvenience 
that it caused. AGIL also apologised. Its clear that certain incorrect information was provided 
to Mr H (such as the length of the warranty for the replacement phone). But its also clear 
that when this was clarified Mr H ended up with a better outcome. Also, its clear that despite 
the incorrect details being given to Mr H this didnt materially alter his claim or the outcome 
of it. So, I think the £50 offer is a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of Mr Hs 
claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I dont require Assurant General Insurance Limited to do any more than it has already 
offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman