DRN-4455626
The complaint
Mr H complains that a van acquired with finance from Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr H was supplied with a van and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMF. At the point of supply the van was around 4 years old and had covered 
around 81,450 miles.
In January 2023 Mr H contacted BMF to complain about faults with the van. He said that 
following a breakdown, the van had been taken to a garage who had diagnosed the following 
faults:
Oil leak from timing belt
Turbo seals failing
Top mount o/s noisy
Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) tampered with
Steering issue
BMF didnt uphold the complaint. It said there was no evidence that the DPF had been 
tampered with prior to the point of supply. It said that the other issues with the car were due 
to wear and tear.
Mr H was unhappy with the outcome and brought his complaint to this service. Soon 
afterwards (in May 2023) the van was stolen from outside Mr Hs property.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the issue with the oil leak was a 
serviceable item and that there was no evidence that the leak had been present or 
developing at the point of supply. The investigator said that the issue with the turbo seals 
was also a serviceable item. The investigator said that although Mr H had told this service 
that the steering issue was due to the steering column not being put back together properly, 
there wasnt any evidence to support this and the report from the garage who looked into the 
faults didnt mention the steering. In relation to the DPF, the investigator said that based on 
the available evidence, it wasnt possible to say that the van was supplied with the DPF 
missing. The investigator concluded that there wasnt enough evidence to say that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
Mr H didnt agree. He said hed only been able to keep the van running by putting lots of oil 
into it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of 
goods includes their general state and conditions, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects. safety and durability.
The van supplied to Mr H was around 4 years old and had covered around 81,450 miles. So 
its reasonable to expect that the van would already have a degree of wear and tear and that 
it was likely to require repairs sooner than. say, a brand new car.
Ive reviewed the available evidence about the issues which Mr H experienced with the van. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there are some faults with the car. I say this 
because the report from the garage who inspected the van following the breakdown 
diagnosed an oil leak from the timing belt, failing turbo seals and signs of tampering with the 
DPF.
Just because theres a fault doesnt mean that the van wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. Ive gone on to consider this point.
The timing belt is a serviceable item on a vehicle. Timing belts usually need to be replaced 
at between 40,000  100,000 miles. Given that Mr Hs van had already covered over 80,000 
miles when it was supplied, it isnt unreasonable to expect that the timing belt might need 
replacing.  Theres no evidence that the timing belt was leaking oil at the point of supply, or 
that the timing belt was faulty at the point of supply. If the timing belt had been faulty at the 
point of supply, I dont think it would have been possible for Mr H to have covered the 3000 
miles that he covered from the point of supply to the point of diagnosis of the issue, so Im 
unable to say that this was a point of supply fault which made the van of unsatisfactory 
quality.
The turbo seals are also a serviceable item, because these deteriorate over time. So again, 
having regard to the age and mileage of the van, it isnt unreasonable to expect that these 
might need replacing. So Im unable to say that this made the car of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied.  
The issue with the steering wheel isnt mentioned in the report from the garage. I appreciate 
that Mr H has said that he was advised that the steering column hadnt been put back 
together properly but theres no engineering evidence to support this. Because of the lack of 
evidence, Im unable to safely conclude that there was a fault with the steering wheel.
Ive also considered the issue surrounding the DPF. The report from the garage says that 
the DPF shows signs of tampering. It doesnt state that the DPF has definitely been 
removed. BMF has said that the van underwent an MOT in July 2022 and relies on the fact 
that theres no mention of the DPF not being present. Its unlikely that the van wouldve 
passed an MOT if the DPF had been removed. So  if Mr H is correct about the DPF having 
been removed  this must have happened after the MOT in July 2022.
Ive reviewed the other available information about the DPF. Ive seen a garage invoice 
dated August 2022, which was around one month before Mr H took possession of the van. 
The invoice shows that the DPF was chemically cleaned, and a sensor was replaced. I dont 
think its likely that the garage would have serviced the DPF if it hadnt been present, or if 
they intended to remove it prior to the point of supply.Theres no other information in relation to the DPF. Based on the information Ive seen, there 
isnt enough evidence to persuade me that the DPF had been removed at the point of 
supply. I cant be certain that the DPF has been removed, because this isnt expressly stated 
in the report dated January 2023. Because of this, I cant safely conclude that the DPF 
meant that the van was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied.
Im sorry to hear that Mr Hs van was stolen. This has prevented any inspection of the van 
taking place, so theres no way of knowing what an inspection might have shown. But on the 
basis of the evidence Ive seen, Im unable to say that the van was of unsatisfactory quality 
when supplied and I wont be asking BMF to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman