DRN-4087249
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) failed to act on 
their instructions and theyve lost out as a result. 
What happened
SJP accept that a broker working on its behalf, failed to complete the actions they should 
have in a timely manner. It has made an offer to put things right which is based on what it 
feels the loss is as a result of the brokers actions and what could have happened. 
Mr and Mrs T were looking for options to allow them to move out of their existing fixed rate 
mortgage early, as they had concerns about rising interest rates. Their existing mortgage 
allowed them to move from it, but an early repayment charge (ERC) would need to be paid. 
This amount changed, depending on when the mortgage was repaid. If they did this before 1 
December 2022, the ERC was 2% of the outstanding mortgage balance. If they moved after 
this but before 1 December 2023, the ERC reduced to 1%.
The broker Mr and Mrs T were dealing with, left SJP on 31 May 2022 and moved to a new 
network on 1 June 2022. Based on this, SJP didnt think it would have been able to arrange 
a mortgage offer for Mr and Mrs T which would have allowed them to avoid the 2% ERC. 
This is because the maximum term over which the offer would remain valid for was 180 days 
based on the product they wanted. So any offer would have expired before 1 December if 
made before the end of May 2022.
SJP felt when the mortgage offer was sent later, after the broker had moved firms, Mr and 
Mrs T benefited from the saving of the reduced ERC payment and it deducted this from its 
calculations when determining the loss.
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Ts complaint and felt the offer made to put things 
right was fair. She thought the focus for Mr and Mrs T was on locking in a rate and no one 
could have been certain when the rate of 2.92% could have been withdrawn. With this in 
mind she was not sure they would have delayed accepting this and risked missing out on it 
before it expired. So she felt had the broker done what they should have, the rate would 
have been fixed in May, meaning the higher ERC couldnt have been avoided. When the 
broker delayed the application and the rate was missed, she felt Mr and Mrs T had benefited 
from the reduced ERC.  
Mr and Mrs T replied to say they had made it clear to the broker they were only prepared to 
pay the 1% ERC. So they disagreed on this point and said they would not have fixed sooner 
if this meant they couldnt avoid the higher fee. And although the broker they were dealing 
with left SJP at the end of May 2022, this wasnt immediately apparent. The old SJP email 
was copied in on correspondence after this date. So Mr and Mrs T still believed they were 
receiving advice on their options from SJP. Mr and Mrs T feel it is unfair that because of the 
dates of the broker leaving SJP, they have lost out.
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged and because of this, the complaint has been 
passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know Mr and Mrs T will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why I think the offer SJP has 
made is fair.
There are a number of things Mr and Mrs T have questioned about the redress offered by 
SJP. They think the interest rate used as the comparison against what they are now paying 
should be lower. And it isnt fair to say the ERC would have been higher if SJP and its broker 
had acted in a timelier manner. 
The comparable interest rate.
Mr and Mrs T have questioned whether SJP has acted fairly when its used a rate of 2.92% 
as the comparison for what they could have got. Mr and Mrs T feel the rate of 2.91% should 
be used as the comparison. This has been used because SJP believe it was the correct rate 
available, based on the loan to value (LTV) ratio Mr and Mrs T have with their property. Mr 
and Mrs T feel the broker incorrectly recorded the value of the property and relied on the 
original valuation figure from their existing mortgage over using the figure they provided.
I understand why Mr and Mrs T feel the higher valuation they submitted should be 
considered, but their opinion on the value of their property is not what would be relied on by 
a lender. The lender would, as part of the application process, have a valuation completed 
and this would be relied on when determining the LTV in their eyes. I dont think using what 
had previously been agreed as the value of the property was an unreasonable starting point 
when the broker was pulling together what options were available. 
So it follows, that I dont think SJP has been unreasonable when taking the rate available 
based on what was known about the value and LTV on Mr and Mrs Ts property. If a rate 
had been selected which was later unavailable if the valuation didnt match, Mr and Mrs T 
could have lost out when needing to take a different rate at a later point. So I think the broker 
acted fairly when using a valuation that had previously been agreed.  
Should SJP deduct the ERC saving from the redress.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T have said they did not realise the broker they were dealing with 
had left SJP part way through their dealings with them. And they continued to operate under 
the pretence that SJP was the company responsible for the advice and service received. 
I think the broker clearly could have done more here to explain what was happening and 
what business and platform she was working from at different points. While it appears to 
have no impact on the products that were available, it is relevant to this complaint and the 
outcome of it. As the company ultimately responsible for the advice and actions changed 
during the period.
SJP is responsible for the advice of its broker and the service provided on its behalf. If the 
advice is not provided by its agents, it is not its responsibility. 
The crux of this complaint is whether it would be fair to say that SJP and its broker would 
have been able to offer a product to Mr and Mrs T which would have allowed them to avoid 
paying the higher ERC. And whether it is fair that SJP consider the delays and service 
beyond the time the broker was working for it.On 13 May 2022, Mr T wrote to the broker with a number of questions about his and Mrs Ts 
options with their mortgage. He was following up on an earlier email sent in May which 
hadnt been responded to. This included asking from what date an offer could be put in 
place, allowing them to secure a new rate and reduce their ERC to the lower amount. There 
was no response to these questions until 29 May 2022 when the broker set out a list of 
options explaining why moving the mortgage now, with an ERC of £9578.00 approximately, 
would be beneficial even if rates increased by another 1% in the following year. 
A mortgage illustration and key facts was sent in support of this and the broker set out her 
new contact details going forward. Although they didnt explicitly say they were changing 
firms, it was implied as there was no reference to SJP going forward. The broker also 
explained they were out of the office for the following week and would have limited capacity 
to pick up their emails.  
The advice and information provided to Mr and Mrs T at this point was correct  based on 
the point in time and the costs they would have incurred if they secured an offer and moved 
the mortgage within 180 days of then. 
On 1 June 2022, Mr T responded to the new contact details provided, while copying in the 
SJP contact address, to confirm they would like to proceed with one of the options put 
forward. It was clear Mr and Mrs T wanted to look at options that allowed them to change 
their mortgage in December and avoid the higher ERC as they asked a number of questions 
about the process and whether the rate could be secured until then. These questions were 
answered on 9 June 2022 with the broker responding from their new company and contact 
details.
All actions of the broker and whether they did what they should have done after they moved 
are not the responsibility of SJP. And as I think the advice and information provided about Mr 
and Mrs Ts options prior to this was correct, I think the offer now made is fair.
The broker could not have made an application and received an offer for a mortgage for Mr 
and Mrs T which would have avoided them incurring the higher ERC, during the time they 
were employed by SJP. So even if they had responded to the initial emails sooner, Mr and 
Mrs T would have needed to decide whether they wanted to proceed on this basis or wait 
and risk the interest rate changing.
Mr and Mrs T did respond to their broker to confirm what product they wanted to go for 
before it was removed. But at this point the broker was not working for SJP and their actions 
and whether there was a failing here are not its responsibility. So whether this should have 
been actioned sooner and whether they lost out as a result of this is something that would 
need to be considered by the new firm.
Based on what the broker could have done when working for SJP, I think the offer made is 
fair. It correctly identifies any rate secured at this point would have needed to be taken out 
before 1 December 2022 which would have meant Mr and Mrs T would have paid a higher 
ERC. 
Overall, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to ask SJP to increase the offer it 
has made to Mr and Mrs T. I think it correctly identifies the loss which Mr and Mrs T have 
suffered based on the broker not acting on the requests for advice more quickly. And I dont 
expect it to consider any future actions or work completed when the broker was acting for 
another firm which received the benefit of any commission paid on the mortgage when it was 
completed. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint as the offer 
previously made to put things right is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman