DRN-3244469
The complaint
I, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc closed its account 
without notice, had made mistakes with the administration of the account and didnt honour a 
switching offer.
What happened
I says that NatWest didnt tell it in September 2020 that its main account would be restricted 
and so it couldnt make payments. NatWest applied a fee for an overdraft that wasnt made 
available. And it says it gave I the impression it could switch its account to another bank and 
receive an incentive but was then told it didnt qualify. I doesnt think NatWest has complied 
with regulatory requirements. It says it has communicated poorly, been misleading and not 
acted in its interests.
NatWest said it had decided to close all of Is accounts. But that as I had a Bounce Back 
Loan (BBL) it needed one account to remain as a feeder account. It explained this to I and 
apologised for any confusion. It had charged for an overdraft but refunded this and I wasnt 
eligible for a switching incentive once a decision had been made to close its accounts.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that NatWest had 
made clear what was happening to the accounts. It was clear that I wouldnt be eligible for 
an overdraft. He didnt think that I had applied for an incentive within the eligibility period in 
any case. 
I didnt agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It said that its position had been 
completely oversimplified and the assessment had been biased. It wanted all its complaint 
points to be reviewed.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 25 November 2021. I set out below 
what I said.
I said I was going to look at the areas I thought relevant to an assessment of the complaint 
and to help me decide on the issues. Id reviewed a copy of a letter NatWest sent to I dated 
14 September 2020. This set out that two of its three accounts would be closed after 60 
days. It said that any overdraft facility would be withdrawn. It said that because I had a BBL 
its current account would remain open if this wasnt repaid but only for the purpose of 
enabling any loan payments to be covered. And that funds should be sent to this account. 
I appreciated that NatWest didnt refer in the closure letter specifically to the account ending 
in number 235. But I took the view that the points about the BBL clearly related to this 
account.
For reasons which arent clear I was sent a letter on 2 October 2020 saying that its overdraft 
facility would be extended for a year from 1 November 2020 and there would be a fee of 
£100. NatWests position is that this was clearly sent in error and that it had already told I 
that the account was being restricted and any overdraft removed. 
I said it emailed NatWest to clarify things. And Id seen a copy of a letter from NatWest to I 
dated 21 October 2020 dealing with a complaint about the closure of the business accounts. 
And saying that this wouldnt be reversed, and nor could I have a new currency account that 
it wanted. So, I did think that the position then was made reasonably clear.
I registered its interest in switching its account to different financial businesses and received 
promotional codes. It was given the impression in my view that it would receive incentive 
payments. When it complained to NatWest on 3 January 2021 it said it had already set up an 
account with one of those other businesses. And that it was unhappy not to be receiving an 
incentive. So, I didnt think that the first time it applied for an incentive was in April 2021 as 
NatWest told this service and which would have been after the deadline for the codes of 
February 2021. NatWest says that because Is main account became a feeder account and 
all accounts were to be closed it didnt qualify. And that it would only do so if there was 
actually an account to switch. I didnt think that was clear to I at the time. And its shown that 
it was still receiving information about switching from NatWest as late as May 2021. Its also 
shown that NatWest wrote to it in November 2020 saying it would give support when the 
position was that its accounts were to be closed.
I complained again after a further response from NatWest on 1 December 2020 which it 
didnt think had addressed its points. The final response from NatWest was dated 19 April 
2021. It apologised for the distress caused and said it had refunded the overdraft fee with 
interest. It stated that it understood the frustration about the issue with switching accounts.
my assessment
I set out above that I thought that NatWest made I aware that it wanted to end the banking 
relationship. And it set out the limited arrangements for the BBL repayments. That was also 
consistent with the conclusion of the letter dated 21 October 2020. And I didnt think it could 
reasonably expect to use its account after the 60 days had expired other than for those 
repayments.
The overdraft letter was a clear error by NatWest. I wasnt persuaded that I thought that this 
meant that the position had changed. But I noted that the fee was debited to its account on 1 
November 2020 and not refunded until after I complained.
The position regarding switching was poorly communicated. I in my view could reasonably 
think it was eligible for an incentive and spent time pursuing this. It opened an account with 
one of the other businesses. In my view the nuances werent made clear. However, as 
NatWest had effectively closed its accounts there was no account to switch and so it couldnt 
meet the requirement to switch a main account. Although it had a loss of expectation it could 
never correctly have received this payment.
putting things right
The overdraft fee and interest has been refunded albeit only in April 2021. For the reasons I 
gave above I said I wouldnt be requiring a switching incentive to be paid. I needed to think 
about the inconvenience caused to I. While NatWest refers to distress, as a limited company 
thats not something I can suffer. And as its a separate legal entity I cant consider the 
impact on the director.
I thought I was inconvenienced by the error with the overdraft. And by the apparent offers of 
switching incentives which simply werent applicable. I didnt think the apology thats been 
given is sufficient to compensate I for this. But I didnt find NatWest made a mistake in the way it dealt with and communicated the specific terms of the end of the banking relationship. 
I considered what is appropriate taking into account our published guidance and I 
provisionally decided that NatWest should pay not credit I with £300.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest said it would agree to pay the compensation to resolve the complaint and asked 
that I confirms its bank details. 
I didnt agree and said that under protest a payment of £500 would be accepted as an 
absolute minimum. And that anything less is an insult.
My intention in arriving at the amount of compensation was to reflect the impact for I: not to 
cause any insult. Although I know I is dissatisfied with the level it has not drawn my attention 
to any points Id not taken into account in my reasoning. I have reviewed this again and Im 
afraid I dont see a basis to depart from my conclusions and so I wont be increasing the 
compensation. If I doesnt accept my decision it remains free to pursue this matter in court 
subject to any relevant time limits.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require National Westminster Bank 
to pay not credit I with £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask I to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman