DRN-3015588
The complaint
The estate of Mrs H (The Estate) is unhappy with the service it received from Santander 
UK Plc surrounding requests for information that it made.  
What happened
The Estate asked Santander for some information regarding the late Mrs Hs accounts. The 
Estate was unhappy with the service provided by Santander in supplying this information, 
which included that Santander incorrectly logged the request for information as a request to 
delete information and that Santander advised that they couldnt supply any requested 
information for events that took place over six years ago. The Estate was also dissatisfied at 
having had to contact and chase Santander on multiple occasions regarding its requests. 
Because of these points, The Estate raised a complaint. 
Santander looked at the Estates complaint. It confirmed that it didnt retain information for 
longer than six years but acknowledged that it had incorrectly logged the initial request for 
information from The Estate as a request to delete information and offered £200 to The 
Estate as compensation for this.
The Estate wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so it referred its complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it was reasonable for 
Santander to no longer be able to provide information on events that had taken place more 
than six years ago, but they felt that the compensation that Santander had offered The 
Estate didnt adequately reflect the inconvenience that The Estate had incurred. Because of 
this, our investigator recommended that Santander increase the level of compensation it had 
offered from £200 to £300.
Santander agreed to the higher compensation amount of £300, but The Estate remained 
dissatisfied and so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its correspondence with this service, The Estate has supplied a number of detailed 
submissions detailing its position on various aspects of this complaint. Id like to thank The 
Estate for these detailed submissions, and I hope that The Estate wont consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here.
Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the salient points of this complaint regarding 
my being able to arrive at what I feel is a fair decision here. This means that if The Estate 
notes that I havent responded to a specific point that its raised, it shouldnt be taken from 
this by The Estate that I havent read and considered that point  Indeed, I can confirm that 
Ive read and considered all the submissions provided by both The Estate and Santander. 
Instead, it should be taken by The Estate that I have read and considered that point, but that 
I dont feel its necessary to address that point directly in order to arrive at what I consider to 
be a fair outcome here.
The Estate here is represented by the late Mrs Hs son. I note that the reason that The 
Estate requested the historical information that it did from Santander is largely because of a 
disagreement between the late Mrs Hs son and one of his siblings, whom the late Mrs Hs 
son believes may have obtained access historically to the accounts in a potentially 
fraudulent manner. This disagreement ultimately resulted in a civil court case brought by The 
Estate against the sibling in question, and The Estate contend that the failure of Santander 
to supply the requested historical information led to that court case being dismissed in the 
siblings favour.
I make the distinction between The Estate and the son of the late Mrs H who represents The 
Estate because The Estate have referenced trouble and inconvenience incurred by the son 
of the late Mrs H in his handling of The Estates business. I can appreciate the personal 
difficulties that the son of the late Mrs H may have experienced while representing The 
Estate here, but I must note that as this complaint has been brought to us in the name of 
The Estate, I wouldnt be able to consider any inconvenience incurred specifically by the son 
of the late Mrs H, as ultimately the son of the late Mrs H is not the complainant in this 
instance.
Furthermore, its unusual for this service to instruct the payment of compensation for 
inconvenience to an estate, and this is because an estate is a legal entity rather than a 
person  and general speaking, its usually only people, and not legal entities, that can be 
considered as being inconvenienced. However, there can be cases where this service will 
consider that the actions or non-actions of a business have caused an estate to have been 
inconvenienced such that some compensation to an estate is warranted.
It also must be noted that a major aspect of this complaint concerns how Santander have 
retained and handled historical account information dating back several years. I feel that 
these aspects of The Estates complaint would be more appropriately reviewed by the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) although I have considered these aspects of The 
Estates complaint during my review. I also feel it apt to confirm at this point the mandate of 
this service, which is to assess all the information available on a complaint and to decide on 
whether a fair outcome can be said to have been reached and to instruct corrective action 
and/or financial compensation if deemed appropriate.
Finally, in its correspondence with this service, The Estate has raised several further 
complaint points that werent included within its original complaint to Santander or to this 
service, and which Santander havent previously had the opportunity to respond to. I can 
confirm that I wont be considering these further complaint points raised by The Estate and 
will limit my review to the aspects of The Estates complaint that were raised with Santander 
and which they have had the opportunity to respond to. 
Should it be the case that The Estate wants to pursue the further complaint points that it has 
raised it would need to refer these complaint points to Santander directly and allow them the 
opportunity to respond to those complaint points before considering whether it still wants to 
refer those complaint points to this service.
Santander not being able to provide information older than six years
The Estate are dissatisfied that Santander havent been able to provide information about 
the late Mrs Hs accounts for events that took place over six years ago  as many of the 
events about which The Estate is enquiring, did. I can appreciate that The Estate might 
consider that the information that its requesting from Santander should have been retained for longer than six years and should still be available, but businesses such as Santander 
arent generally required to maintain information records indefinitely in the manner that The 
Estate would like here.
In this instance, Santander have confirmed that their information retention policy is such that 
information over six years old isnt generally maintained, and I dont feel that I can fairly 
censure Santander here for implementing a policy that its entitled to implement and which 
doesnt contravene any requirements it might have as a business in this regard. 
The Estate have also expressed dissatisfaction that Santander didnt go above and beyond 
the specifics of the requests that The Estate made and didnt, for instance, recommend to 
The Estate that a Subject Access Request might be the most efficient way for The Estate to 
obtain the information that it was seeking in regard to the civil court case.
But Santander are under no obligation to offer advice such as The Estate would have liked 
here, and in responding to the requests for information made by The Estate solely based on 
the specifics of those requests Im satisfied that Santander didnt in any way act unfairly or 
unreasonably to The Estate. 
Erasure request error
Santander have acknowledged that when it first received a request for information from The 
Estate it initially logged that request, incorrectly, as a request for information to be deleted. 
Santander responded by writing to The Estate at the late Mrs Hs address and advised that it 
cant erase the date it maintains due to legal requirements. 
Santanders letter was received at that address by the sibling who was the defendant in the 
civil court case brought by The Estate, and this exacerbated the disagreement between the 
son of the late Mrs H and his sibling, whom accused the son of the late Mrs H of attempting 
to delete information that was detrimental to the position of The Estate in the court case. 
This led to The Estate having to expend a considerable degree of energy in resolving and 
explaining this position.
Its clear to me that Santanders error here did cause unnecessarily inconvenience The 
Estate such that I feel its appropriate in this instance that Santander should compensate The 
Estate for what took place. Matters of compensation can be subjective, and while I 
acknowledge that The Estate may disagree, the £300 compensation that Santander have 
already agreed to pay does feel fair to me, and I can confirm that its commensurate with 
what this service would expect, given the circumstances here.
The Estate also contends that Santander sending the erasure request response letter 
caused the working relationship between itself and the solicitor handling the civil court case 
on its behalf to deteriorate and ultimately end, leaving The Estate without legal 
representation. Im not convinced by The Estates position here, and it seems apparent from 
the information available to me that there was a degree of tension present in the working 
relationship before this matter such that I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably say that 
Santanders error should be considered as being the direct and sole cause of the end of that 
working relationship.
It also must be noted that Santander, when made aware of its error, acted quickly to rectify 
the position and confirmed that its logging of the information request as a request for 
information to be deleted was an error.
SummaryI realise that this wont be the outcome that The Estate was wanting here but having 
considered all of the information available to me on this complaint, I dont feel that I can 
conclude that Santander have acted unfairly or unreasonably toward The Estate. This 
means that I also dont feel that Santander should be considered as being responsible for 
losses incurred by The Estate or that Santander should be instructed to make a payment of 
compensation to The Estate above and beyond the payment of £300 to which Santander 
has already agreed.
It follows from this that while I will be upholding this complaint, I will only be doing so on the 
limited basis explained above, and my only instruction to Santander will be that they must 
make a payment of £300 to The Estate to compensate it for the inconvenience it incurred. I 
trust that The Estate will understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the 
final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Santander must make a payment to The Estate of £300  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc on the basis 
explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman