DRN-3219878
The complaint
Ms C says S.D. Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LaH) lent to her irresponsibly. 
Ms C says that she was in a debt spiral and couldnt afford the loan repayments. She thinks 
that LaH shouldnt have lent to her. 
What happened
This complaint is about ten home collected loans LaH provided to Ms C between April 2007 
and September 2012. Some of the information I have been provided about the lending is in 
the table below. 
loan date taken amount instalments date repaid
1 05/04/2007 £300 32 20/12/2007
2 03/01/2008 £400 32 31/07/2008
3 31/07/2008 £500 32 07/05/2009
4 14/05/2009 £200 32 17/12/2009
5 14/05/2009 £300 32 17/12/2009
6 17/12/2009 £300 32 12/08/2010
7 17/12/2009 £200 32 12/08/2010
8 12/08/2010 £500 41 13/09/2012
9 30/09/2010 £200 32 31/05/2012
10 13/09/2012 £500 41 08/05/2014
LaH has said that this Service shouldnt consider any of the lending as Ms C complained 
more than six years after the loans were lent. So, it doesnt think they are within the 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator firstly said that loan 1 wasnt within the jurisdiction of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service as it was advanced before this service is able to consider complaints 
about this product type.  
But she thought Ms C had complained in time about loans 2 to 10 This is because whilst she 
made her complaint more than six years from when she started taking the loans there was 
no evidence to suggest she complained later than three years before she was aware, or 
ought to have been aware, she could complain.  
Our adjudicator then looked at the merits of the complaint and went on to partly uphold it. 
She said that by loan 5 the lending pattern itself looked to have become harmful, and so LaH 
shouldve stopped lending at this point. 
LaH responded to the adjudicators opinion about the jurisdiction of this complaint only. It 
said that, essentially: 
Ms Cs complaint is that she was in financial difficulty that has been caused, or made 
worse, by the lending.  
As the loans were provided some time ago, and fully repaid by 2014, she would have 
been aware that the loans were causing her problems more than three years before 
she made her complaint. And so, she should have been aware that she could 
complain about them much earlier than she did. 
As we dont fully know when Ms C became aware she could complain its reasonable 
to rely on what she has said in her complaint. 
Ms C agreed with what the adjudicator said. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
Why I cant look into this complaint about loan 1, but I can look into loans 2 to 10
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided by Ms C and LaH to 
decide whether we are able to look at the loans being complained about. Having done so, I 
have reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator  that I dont have the power to 
consider loan 1 but I do have the power to consider loans 2 to 10. Ill explain why. 
Loan 1 was started before this product was regulated in April 2007. I can only look at 
regulated loans, and so I cant consider loan 1. 
The rules I must apply say that, where a business doesnt agree, I cant look at a complaint 
made more than six years after whats been complained about, or if later, more than three 
years after the complainant (in this case, Ms C) knew, or should really have known she had 
reason to complain. This is set out in Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R and can be found online 
in the FCAs Handbook. 
Its clear loans 2 to 10 were complained about more than six years after they were taken. 
However, Ive not seen anything to persuade me Ms C was aware or ought to have been 
aware more than three years before she raised this complaint, that she had reason to 
complain. LaH has said that when Ms C experienced repayment problems this shouldve 
caused her to realise she had reason to complain. But, I dont think this is enough in this 
particular case to demonstrate that.
I say this because whilst experiencing repayment problems would no doubt have led Ms C to 
realise there was a problem (in terms of the financial difficulty), Im not persuaded this would 
have (or ought to have), in itself, made her aware that these problems were caused by LaH 
doing something wrong when it agreed the loans.
And I havent seen anything else to persuade me that Ms C was, or should have been, 
aware earlier of cause to complain more than three years before she complained. 
So, like our adjudicator, I think loans 2 to 10 were raised within the time limits I need to apply 
and that I do have the power to consider them. Ill now go on and consider whether or not I 
think all the loans complained about were lent responsibly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LaH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LaH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Cs complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Ms C agreed with our adjudicators opinion about loans 2 to 4. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. And for the avoidance of doubt I dont 
disagree with what the adjudicator said, for the same reasons. Im not upholding Ms Cs 
complaint about these loans. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Ms C had with 
LaH. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans she 
took.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 5 to 10 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of LaHs lending 
history with Ms C, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which LaH should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so LaH should 
have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Ms Cs case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 5. I say this because:At this point LaH ought to have realised Ms C was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Ms C had been indebted to LaH for around two years. I think this is a 
long time to be using this type of credit. And she was making a commitment for a 
further 32 weeks. So LaH ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms Cs 
indebtedness was unsustainable.
Ms Cs first loan was for £300 and loan 5 was also for £300. But this was the second 
loan she had taken on the same day. So, her indebtedness had increased. At this 
point LaH ought to have known that Ms C was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Right from the start Ms C was provided with a new loan within a very short time of 
settling a previous one. There wasnt a sustained time when she wasnt making 
repayments to LaH. She also had more than one loan running at once at times. 
Ms C didnt make any real inroads to the amount she owed LaH. Loan 10 was taken 
out around five years after Ms Cs first. And it was for a larger amount. Ms C had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LaH over an extended period.
I think that Ms C lost out because LaH continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Cs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit over an extended period of time.
the length of time over which Ms C borrowed was likely to have had negative 
implications on Ms Cs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 to 10 and LaH should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LaH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Ms C from loan 5, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms C may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this particular lender which she may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, she may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms C in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Ms C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LaHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it 
has done wrong and should put right.
LaH shouldnt have given Ms C loans 5 to 10.A) LaH should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards interest, fees 
and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where applicable, but 
not including anything it has already refunded.
B) LaH should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms C 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms C originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) LaH should pay Ms C the total of A plus B.
D) The overall pattern of Ms Cs borrowing for loans 5 to 10 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Ms Cs credit file. If 
LaH has sold any of the loans LaH should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LaH to deduct tax from this interest. LaH should give 
Ms C a certificate showing how much tax LaH has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Ms Cs complaint.
S.D. Taylor Limited should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman