DRN-4016577
The complaint
Mr M complains about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax UK, blocking his bank 
account as this caused him financial detriment.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on 17 February 2023, and this is what I said:
Ive considered the relevant information about this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, there will be a different outcome to what our investigator 
proposed.
Before I issue my final decision, I wanted to give everyone a chance to reply.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 17 March 2023. But unless the 
information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.
The complaint
Mr M complains about Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax UK, blocking his bank 
account as this caused him financial detriment.
What happened
Mr M was making a regular purchase of goods via Halifaxs on-line system and due to the
seller changing bank accounts it was necessary for him to set up new transfer details.
However, upon doing so he was requested to phone Halifaxs fraud team.
Mr M says that when he called the number and spoke to a representative, he found him 
extremely unhelpful and awkward which led to his transaction being blocked.
When placing the block, the representative told Mr M he would need to visit a branch. Mr M 
subsequently found out that the block applied to all on-line transactions.
Mr M explains this caused him considerable inconvenience. Also, financial detriment as by 
the time he made the purchase it was £165 more expensive.
So, Mr M complained to Halifax who explained the reasons for their procedures, recognised 
that they may cause inconvenience but said they were acting in his best interests.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service; however, our investigator didnt think Halifax 
needed to take further action. This is because she thought their actions were in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account and they were acting to protect Mr Ms funds.
As Mr M remain dissatisfied this case has now been referred to me to look at.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first considered Halifaxs action in diverting Mr Ms transaction to the fraud team and I found 
this fair and reasonable.
Although Mr M says this was a regular payment, the payee account information was
different, and banks systems are set up to detect and reduce fraud. And, having looked at
Halifaxs terms and conditions, Im satisfied that they were entitled to undertake the security
checks.
Unfortunately checks like these will often be inconvenient for customers, but that doesnt
mean that Halifax is wrong to carry them out. Halifax have responsibilities and a duty of care
to protect customers money. Also, having previously used a merchant doesnt mean that a
fraudulent payment isnt taking place.
I listened to Mr Ms call with Halifax to consider if the representative was unhelpful, 
deliberately awkward, and wrong to put a block on the transaction.
I think the standard of service provided by the representative shouldve been better and he
couldve been more helpful. I say this because Mr M didnt understand the requirement for
him to speak to the fraud operations team and, although it appears to be a team covering the
banking group, I thought it was reasonable for Mr M to have expected the representative to
have some knowledge of why he was calling.
I found the call got off to a tense start as Mr M didnt understand the necessity of the call and
neither did the representative. The representative didnt have any opening lines and only
explained his role when Mr M questioned him. And, I think this, coupled with his matter-of-
fact tone caused Mr M to become uncomfortable and frustrated over the process and
amount of time it was taking to complete what he originally thought was going to be a
straightforward transaction.
Also, when the representative placed the block on the account, he didnt explain this would
impact other transactions. In addition, when concluding the call which would obviously cause
Mr M inconvenience, I found the way he terminated the call to be both unnecessary and
likely to cause further upset.
I didnt though think the representative was being deliberately awkward or was wrong to put
the block on the transaction, but I can understand why Mr M thought this. I found the
representative was trying to do his job in a no-nonsense way, which was to ask questions to
protect Mr Ms account and gain satisfactory answers.
Halifax were entitled to understand more about the payment being made and although I
understand Mr M didnt feel comfortable answering the question about what he was
purchasing I think it was a reasonable question for the representative to ask. Unfortunately,
an incorrect and unconstructive answer didn't satisfy the fraud check and alleviate a fraud
risk, so I cant say that the representative made an error here or that Halifax were wrong to
temporarily stop Mr M using their online services.
Regarding Mr Ms concerns about Halifaxs blocking process and inconsistent messaging
about how to unblock an account, Im unable to look into this as our service does not
regulate business processes, procedures and policies.
So, considering all the above, although I cant see any evidence that Halifax made a
procedural error here, Im partially upholding this complaint as I think their call handling
standard of service shouldve been better, and I require Halifax to pay Mr M £50
compensation.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons Ive given above, its my provisional decision to partially uphold this 
complaint.
I require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax UK, to pay Mr M £50 compensation.
Ill look at anything else anyone wants to give me  so long as I get it before 17 March 2023.
Unless that information changes my mind, my final decision is likely to be as Ive set out
above.
Both parties responded prior to the deadline.
Halifax endorsed the amount of compensation.
Mr M thinks the compensation is insufficient for his financial loss and the distress, time and 
inconvenience caused. Mr M made a number of points including the following: 
A satisfactory outcome would be equal to a. the amount that I was disadvantaged 
by, being £165, plus b. the amount indicated on the ombudsman's provisional letter, 
being £50. This is a total of £215.
Mr M feels Halifax havent recognised they made an error or offered any explanation 
as to why they acted in the way they did 
As a matter of principal, Mr M considers it to be his decision alone as to what my 
banking funds are buying, and the Halifax has no reason to ask me this, unless their 
decision to authorise the transaction has some bearing on the response I give.
The only reason for pulling the transaction was to check that the person I was paying 
was genuine, which they were. 
Mr M later completed a transaction to the same seller and the Halifax representative 
authorised the transaction
Mr M feels Halifax acted dishonestly and tried to cause him as much inconvenience 
as possible by stating the release of the block could only be completed in person by 
visiting a branch
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Thinking about everything again and, in light of Mr Ms comments, I considered whether 
further compensation is warranted.
I still cant see that Halifax made an error here or didnt offer an explanation. Whilst a bank 
has a contractual duty to execute a valid and proper order to carry out its customers 
instruction, it also has a duty to exercise reasonable skill and care in carrying out their 
instructions. Given the banks obligations to protect its customers from potential fraud or 
scams, it might also be expected to make reasonable enquiries and refrain from making a 
payment if it has reasonable grounds for believing, for example, that there is scam or 
attempt to misappropriate the money. 
In this case, Mr Ms transaction was automatically flagged to check if the payment was 
genuine and although I think Halifaxs representative shouldve handled the call better, Im 
satisfied that the questions he asked were reasonable with the intention of protecting Mr Ms 
account and alleviate any threat of a fraud. 
Although I fully understand Mr Ms frustration, I found that he resisted giving answers to the 
fraud and verification questions that he was asked and additionally gave an unsatisfactory answer. This meant that Mr M didn't satisfy the checks and I think it was reasonable of the 
representative to consider whether there could be a social engineering scam or fraud risk. 
So, Im satisfied that rather than being punitive, the representatives action to block Mr Ms 
account, was following a process designed to protect Mr M and his funds. 
I appreciate Mr M doesnt see it this way and feels the blocking action was intended to cause 
him the maximum inconvenience, however for the reasons mentioned above Im not 
persuaded that this was the case.
I also understand Mr Ms concerns about the unblocking process and inconsistent 
messaging, however as stated in my provisional decision our service isnt the regulator of 
business processes, procedures or policies. Also, Halifax are entitled to exercise discretion, 
and I cant see that theyve acted dishonestly here.
So, having considered everything again, I cant see any evidence that Halifax made a 
procedural error here. But, as I think their call handling standard of service shouldve been 
better, Im still partially upholding this complaint and I require Halifax to pay Mr M £50 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, its my final decision to 
partially uphold this complaint and I require Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax UK, to 
pay Mr M £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman