The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way his insurer, The New India Assurance Company Limited, via 
their agent, valued his car after an accident. 
Ill refer to The New India Assurance Company Limited and their agent together as NIAC in 
my decision. 
What happened
Mr C was involved in a car accident in July 2019. NIAC arranged for a repairer to look at the 
damage, and then had an engineer compare the cost of repairs to the value of the car. NIAC 
concluded that the cost of repairing the car was more than it was worth. So they told Mr C 
theyd give him the value of his car, which they said was £3,440, instead of paying to repair 
it. 
Mr C felt the valuation of his car was too low. From his own research, and based on the 
mileage and condition of his car, he thought something similar would cost over £5,000 from 
a reputable dealership. Mr C complained, but after looking at some motor trade price-guides, 
NIAC felt their offer to settle the insurance claim was reasonable. So the matter came to us. 
Our investigator checked the retail values shown in some specialist trade guides, and found 
NIACs valuation was in line with these. So the investigator felt NIACs offer was fair. Mr C 
disagreed, as he felt this finding was at odds with information on our services website. 
The case has passed to me for a further review and final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why below. 
Ive looked at the terms of the insurance agreement NIAC had with Mr C. These tell me it 
was for NIAC to decide whether to pay to repair Mr Cs car when he made a claim, or pay 
him a cash amount equal to the cost of the loss. 
A later term said NIAC would have the market value of the car assessed by an engineer, 
before they made an offer to settle the claim. The policy defined market value as The cost 
of replacing the car with one of a similar age, type, mileage and condition, immediately 
before the loss or damage happened.
Given the above, Im satisfied the value considered when settling a claim should fairly reflect 
what the car could have been bought or sold for prior to its accident. 
DRN-1486346When they looked into the complaint, NIAC explained to Mr C that their settlement offer was 
in line with what specialist guides said the cars value was, once points raised by an 
engineer had been taken into account. That meets the terms of the policy document, as it 
shows NIACs offer was made after input from an engineer, and had considered the cost of 
replacing the car with something similar. 
Checking that valuation, our investigation found the trade guides showed a range of market 
values for cars like Mr Cs, from £3,350 to £3,831. NIAC took £150 off the value of Mr Cs 
car because the inspection by their engineer found some existing cosmetic damage. This 
would lower the range of guide values to £3,200 to £3,681. NIACs valuation of £3,440 sits 
almost exactly in the middle of this range - which says to me its a fair figure.
Using a specialist guide to work out a cars value is an approach often used in the insurance 
trade. These guides look at car sale data from across the country. They analyse the mileage 
and conditions of the vehicles to produce valuations. Theyre based on likely sale prices, 
rather than advertised prices, which is worth noting too. Advertised prices can be set with 
negotiation in mind, and may not reflect the true value of a car.
Mr C feels he wont be able to get a car as good as his was for the price noted in the guides. 
I appreciate hes spent time looking at dealerships and adverts for cars that had all the 
features his car had, and he feels the cost may be more than the valuations given by the 
guides. But the research and analysis that goes in to producing the guides leads me to give 
weight to their valuations being accurate. 
Its also worth noting that the same page of our website that Mr Cs referred to for a definition 
of market value talks about trade guides being a reasonable tool for valuing a vehicle.
I find no issues with NIAC concluding their valuation was reasonable when they saw it was in 
line with the trade guides. Their approach to valuing the car also seems fair, as it followed 
the process set out in the insurance policy documents, and was in line with established 
practice across the industry.
My final decision
The New India Assurance Company Limited had taken a reasonable approach to valuing 
Mr Cs car, arriving at a figure that I think is fair. They dont need to do anything else in this 
matter. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman