DRN-1689379
 
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the proposals Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) gave 
when their carpet was damaged by a tradesman. The damage was caused while a 
replacement window was being fitted for a claim Mr and Mrs H made under their home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Hs living room window was damaged and replaced under a claim they made 
against their home insurance policy. 
While carrying out the work, a tradesman caused damage to their carpet while wearing 
muddy boots inside. The company that replaced the window paid Mr and Mrs H £80 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
RSA instructed a carpet specialist agent to visit Mr and Mrs Hs home. Mr and Mrs H said 
the agent told Mrs H it wouldnt be possible to clean the carpet. They said he completed the 
inspection sheet which Mrs H signed to offer a replacement carpet for a cash settlement. 
RSA said the agent told it they were positive they could clean the carpet. As RSA wasnt 
there, it couldnt form a conclusion as to what was discussed. It proposed to cover the costs 
to clean the carpet. RSA said if the clean wasnt successful, it would cover the costs to 
replace the carpet. If Mr and Mrs H didnt want their carpet to be cleaned, it would make a 
payment of £114 to them to use toward the cost of either a clean or a replacement carpet.
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy and asked us to look at their complaint. Theyre concerned 
as to what the agent told RSA. They explained that their lounge is a large area, the carpet is 
light coloured and their furniture is expensive. It will be a considerable upheaval to have the 
carpet cleaned. 
Our investigator thought RSAs proposal was reasonable. But Mr H didnt agree. He said 
they dont agree with the notes RSA has of what was discussed and is concerned about its 
record keeping. He doesnt feel RSA has been honest. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When things go wrong, we look at what an insurer has done to put things right. I appreciate 
that Mr and Mrs H dont agree with what RSA or the agent discussed with them. As neither 
RSA nor I were party to the discussion, I cant form a conclusion as to what was said. 
The inspection sheet has been completed under the section replacement by the agent  
but the box hasnt been ticked. The report reads; living room  voucher on cash settlement. 
And as RSA explained, the report states that the decision is subject to approval. Ultimately 
its for RSA as the insurer to decide on a proposal to put right the damage to the carpet. 
So the remaining issue is whether I think that proposal is fair. I understand Mr and Mrs Hs 
concerns. But I think the proposal to first clean the carpet is a reasonable one. The agent 
told RSA it was 90% positive it could successfully clean the carpet. And RSA said that if this 
isnt successful, it will look to cover the costs to replace it. I think overall this is fair and 
reasonable. I understand it will involve some upheaval and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs H. 
But I think this is unavoidable in order to put things right. And I think the window fitting 
companys compensation of £80 was fair. So Im not asking RSA to replace the carpet as the 
first option based on the advice it received from the agent  as it may not be necessary. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman