DRN-1866453
The complaint
Ms F complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited said shed need to pay a lot more for 
her policy when she made a claim for damage under her motorcycle insurance policy. She 
also complains about MCEs valuation of her motorcycle.   
What happened
Ms F took out a motorcycle insurance policy with MCE in 2019 through a price comparison 
website. Ms F was involved in a traffic accident, her motorcycle was damaged and she 
claimed to MCE. She told MCE that the accident wasnt her fault and it dealt with the claim 
as a non-fault claim.
MCE said that when Ms F took out the policy she answered the question asked about 
previous losses incorrectly and didnt declare the theft of a previous motorcycle in 2017. And 
MCE considered this to be a deliberate/reckless or careless qualifying misrepresentation, 
which entitled it to charge her an additional premium. MCE deducted the additional premium 
that it said would have been payable by Ms F for 2019 from the settlement of her claim.
MCE told Ms F that her motorcycle was beyond economic repair and valued it according to 
two trade guides at £4,332.50. MCE said it calculated the additional premium payable by 
Ms F for misrepresenting her information at £2,471.55. 
Ms F said MCEs valuation was too low and said she hadnt given incorrect information when 
taking out her policy, but had answered the questions that were put to her through the online 
application. Ms F brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator said it should be upheld. She said Ms F was asked about previous claims or 
accidents, but this question didnt mention previous thefts or losses unless the customer 
hovers over the question mark. She said that based on the question about claims or 
accidents Ms F wouldnt have had reason to seek further information as she didnt claim 
when her motorcycle was stolen in 2017. The investigator thought Ms F took reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation. 
The investigator reviewed the valuation amount offered to Ms F by MCE. She said based on 
the average of three motor trade guides MCE should offer £4,414 for Ms Fs motorcycle and 
should pay this in full. 
MCE didnt agree with the investigator and requested an ombudsmans decision. MCE said it 
understood that Ms F didnt claim for her loss in 2017, but the question put to her still meant 
the loss should have been mentioned and the law allowed it to apply a higher premium for 
the policy. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Was there a misrepresentation?
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
MCE thinks Ms F failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when she 
answered the question on the price comparison website about accidents and claims by 
saying she had not had any claims. Its only when a customer hovers over the associated 
question mark that further information appears concerning previous thefts or losses and 
requests this information. Had this been included within the body of the question I would 
have thought it clearly applicable to Ms Fs previous loss. As it wasnt included, I think it quite 
likely she remained unaware that she was required to disclose her previous loss. 
In short, Ms F was able to answer the question without recourse to further information. And 
consequently, I dont think it was obvious to Ms F that she had to disclose her previous loss. 
I think Ms F took reasonable care to answer the question that was put to her correctly. This 
means I do not consider there was a qualifying misrepresentation that would allow MCE a 
remedy under CIDRA to take any action, such as its proposal to charge Ms F an additional 
premium for the cover that she has had.
Valuation of Ms Fs motorcycle
Ms Fs contract of insurance says the most MCE will pay is the vehicles market value. 
MCE describes this as the cost of replacing the vehicle with one of the same make, 
model, age, mileage and condition by reference to industry publications. This isnt an 
unusual description and is in keeping with motor insurance industry practice. The fact 
that Ms F estimates her motorcycle at more than MCEs valuation doesnt mean thats 
the correct value. Her policy is a market value policy and its the market value MCE is 
contractually obliged to pay.
MCE assessed the market value of Ms Fs motorcycle by using two motor trade guides, 
whereas we have been able to obtain three trade guide valuations. We consider these to 
be accurate for the time of Ms Fs loss and I think offer a more accurate average 
valuation to be applied, albeit that this is only a marginal increase. The guides give an 
average valuation of £4,414.
Ms F said her motorcycle was fitted with a costly tracking system. However, this is non-
transferable and so it was fair for MCE not to return this to Ms F.  
CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases. Taking 
everything into account I do not think Ms F misrepresented her information to MCE when she started the policy and I am satisfied that £4,414 represents a fair market value. In light 
of all this I dont think MCE acted fairly in treating Ms Fs application for her policy as a 
misrepresentation. Consequently, I think the fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint 
is for MCE to settle Ms Fs claim according to the value of £4,414, without reducing this by 
applying an additional premium.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Fs complaint. I have not found that 
Ms F made a misrepresentation and so I require MCE Insurance Company Limited to pay 
Ms Fs claim according to the market value of her motorcycle of £4,414 and not to apply a 
reduction for an additional premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman