DRN-1666095
 
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mrs and Mr M payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1999.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
The PPI started over 20 years ago and none of the original documents from the time are 
now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened 
so long ago, so it can be difficult to know whether I can rely fully on everything they 
remember. Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. 
As with all cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what 
evidence there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest outcome can be 
difficult.
Mrs and Mr M have said the PPI was added without their knowledge. They say they would 
never have agreed to PPI. Mr M had worked previously for a bank and was aware of PPI 
and it was a product they neither needed nor wanted. They had however bought similar 
protection from a different company and this was also a reason they didnt need 
Nationwides PPI. (Though the only evidence I have is that the other cover was for disability, 
and didnt give the unemployment cover that the Nationwide PPI gave.)
However, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude the PPI was added without Mrs and Mr Ms 
knowledge or consent, unless there was reasonable supporting evidence of it. I realise this 
would be difficult for Mrs and Mr M to provide after all these years. But where someone has 
said another person or organisation has done something wrong, fairness requires that the 
person making the allegation should present evidence that this probably did happen. It 
wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove they didnt do something wrong, especially 
when it was such a long time ago. 
I dont have strong supporting evidence. And I do know it would be more usual for the PPI to 
have been mentioned in the documents in use at the time  and there is at least evidence that Nationwide informed Mrs and Mr M of the ongoing costs of PPI later, in their annual 
mortgage statement at the end of the first year. 
I can also see that the PPI only covered Mrs and Mr M for unemployment  it didnt include 
the usual disability and sickness cover, which would have cost more. Although definitely not 
conclusive, it does suggest that there was some discussion at the time over what cover 
Mrs and Mr M needed in view of their employment situation and any other cover they had. 
So, on the little evidence I have, I think its more likely than not that Nationwide offered PPI 
as a choice  and that Mrs and Mr M agreed to take it, even if they dont now remember it. 
But overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without 
Mrs and Mr Ms consent. 
Assuming that it was offered as a choice, I dont think Nationwide would have 
recommended the PPI as necessarily being suited to Mrs and Mr Ms particular 
needs  I say this based of what we know about Nationwides usual practices at the 
time. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It would 
have been for Mrs and Mr M to decide whether it was suitable.  But even if 
Nationwide had made a recommendation, I think it would probably have been an 
appropriate one in their situation:
Its likely Mrs and Mr M were eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay 
Mrs M received. And for Mr M, who was self employed, it may have been the only 
compensation he received if he lost his work. So it could have put off the time when 
Mrs and Mr M would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mrs and 
Mr M would have been affected by any of these
 
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained the costs and benefits of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have affected 
whether Mrs and Mr M took the PPI. I say this because, in their circumstances, its unlikely 
full information would have made the PPI seem less useful.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman