DRN-2956700
The complaint
Mrs H and the late Mr Hs complaint is about a lifetime mortgage they took with 
Just Retirement Money Limited (JRM). They considered the early repayment charge (ERC) 
that was applied when they paid their mortgage off was excessive and unreasonable. 
Mrs H and the late Mr H told us that whilst they were told about the ERC and how it was 
calculated, they were also told by the adviser at JRM, when they were considering putting 
their house on the market, that the index it was dependant on had been stable for many 
years. This discussion, they say, reassured them and gave them confidence in the 
settlement costs of the mortgage when they were initially given. However, by the time their 
sale went through a matter of months later, the ERC charged had increased from the quote, 
from in the region of £18,000, to over £45,000. They say that at no time did JRM emphasise 
that the ERC could increase to such levels and believe it smacks of pure racketeering. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took advice from a firm of independent mortgage brokers in the spring of 
2019. They took out a lifetime mortgage with JRM for a little over £400,000, which started in 
April 2019. The mortgage had a term of the remainder of their lives or until both had needed 
to move into long-term care. If the mortgage was paid off for any other reason within the first 
15 years, an ERC might be payable. The ERC would be calculated based on the movement 
in a Gilt Yield Index. 
In May 2019 Mr and Mrs H were considering selling their home due to changes in their 
health and circumstances. Mr H telephoned JRM at the end of May 2019 to ask about 
amount needed to repay the mortgage and JRM produced a redemption statement during 
the call and gave him the total amount needed to clear the mortgage at that time. It was 
emphasised that the figure was only valid for 14 days. There was then a discussion about 
how the ERC was calculated and it was confirmed the benchmark index figure relevant to 
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage was 1.66. The adviser said that if the figure increased, there would 
be no ERC to pay, but at the moment the index was really low. He went on to say: 
in fairness if things pick up, thats not a huge rise from what it is now to hit 1.66. If things 
settle down with Brexit then it might start increasing again. Ive seen them higher than that 
previously, about two years ago, but theyve been really low the last year or so. 
The summary of this part of the conversation was that it was possible the ERC could be 
lower. Mr H then commented about an illustration of the ERC from the time of the sale; it 
was detailed it could be around £40,000. It was agreed the redemption statement would be 
sent to Mr and Mrs H in writing with Mr H confirming the statement was valid for 14 days. 
The statement sent detailed the ERC payable as £18,249.81, assuming a redemption date 
of 11 June 2019. 
Mr and Mrs H have told us that based on the redemption statement and the conversation 
Mr H had, they decided to put their home on the market in July 2019. The sale of the 
property completed in February 2020, at which time Mr and Mrs H were charged an ERC of 
£45,535.82. They werent happy with the amount they had to pay and complained.
JRM responded to Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. It explained the mortgage theyd had was 
designed to last the whole of a mortgagors lifetime or until they had to move into long-term 
care. If the mortgage is paid off for other reasons, an ERC might be applied, and it was 
clearly set out in the documentation how it would be calculated. It also confirmed that the 
maximum ERC that could be charged was £80,000. It provided Mr and Mrs H with details of 
the mortgage broker that sold them the mortgage and the solicitors that checked they 
understood the mortgage before it completed.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with JRMs response as they didnt think it answered their 
concerns about the unreasonable and astronomically high penalty charge that had been 
made when they paid the mortgage off. They said that Mr H had discussed at length the 
proposed repayment of their mortgage in June 2019 and had been assured by JRM that the 
ERC of circa £20,000 for their mortgage had been consistent for the previous three years 
and it was extremely unlikely to alter. They said that they based their decision about selling 
their home and moving to a new one on that guidance. 
Mr and Mrs H went on to tell JRM that they were stretched to their financial limit when 
purchasing their new home and they were horrified and shocked about the increase in the 
amount needed to pay off the mortgage. They didnt accept that it was fair for JRM to charge 
the amount of the ERC it did. 
JRM provided Mr and Mrs H with some further information. It provided a table giving 
examples of the ERC at different times based on various changes in the Gilt Yield index. 
JRM commented on the discussions it had with them before they repaid their mortgage  it 
hadnt provided them with advice, although it had suggested they might want to speak to 
their financial adviser. It was highlighted during those conversations that the mortgage was 
designed to last for the whole of a customers lifetime and if paid off early, an ERC might be 
applied. JRM didnt change its conclusions about Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept JRMs response and asked this service to look into their 
complaint. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be 
upheld.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators opinion. They said they were not financial 
experts and dont understand why the ERC should be related to the gilt index as it was. They 
said the whole process seemed wrong as normal mortgages had fixed percentages for early 
repayment, and that seemed more reasonable. They reiterated their earlier comments about 
the conversation Mr H had with JRM in 2019 and how they consider the amount of the ERC 
was not reasonable. 
In relation to the reason for their move, Mr and Mrs H expanded on their reasons for doing 
so; that due to a change in their medical situation, they moved closer to family members for 
long-term care reasons and to a property in a community for older people where they could 
be supported.  They questioned why their move hadnt fulfilled JRMs requirements for the 
ERC to be waived. 
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Hs further comments, but they didnt change his 
conclusions. He reiterated that the advice and Mr and Mrs Hs understanding of the detail of 
the mortgage was the responsibility of the broker who had sold it to them. 
Mr and Mrs H remained disappointed with the investigators conclusions. They reiterated 
their thoughts about the ERC and its reasonableness and didnt feel the investigator had 
commented sufficiently on its fairness. They provided comment on the equity release/lifetime mortgage market as a whole, and the what effect they thought them repaying their mortgage 
early would have on JRM. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to consider. 
Following my initial review of the evidence in this complaint, I requested some further 
information from JRM. It provided some additional information about the calculation of the 
ERC. It also confirmed that it hadnt been made aware that Mr and Mrs H were moving due 
to health and care reasons, so no assessment of whether the ERC should be waived had 
been undertaken. It confirmed that if Mr and Mrs H wanted such an assessment done and 
their GP would complete the relevant medical report (backdated to the time of their move), it 
would do so.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 June 2021. In that decision I set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
I would firstly say that the JRM isnt responsible for the advice Mr and Mrs H received when 
they took the mortgage in question out. That is the responsibility of the independent 
mortgage adviser they asked to help them. So any concerns about the suitability of the 
mortgage for their circumstances would rightly be directed toward the broker.
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the amount of ERC they had to pay when they paid off their 
mortgage in 2020, about a year after it was first advanced. This was because of the amount 
and that it increased from the original figure they were given in the redemption statement; 
they say Mr H was misled by JRM into thinking it was unlikely to be higher as the index the 
ERC is dependent on had been stable for years. 
Ill first address the matter of the conversation with the member of staff at JRM at the end of 
May 2019. Whilst I dont doubt the above is Mr Hs recollection of the conversation, he had 
with JRM, I have listened to the call recording and it doesnt support that recollection. The 
JRM representative didnt say the index had been stable for many years. He made it clear 
that it had dropped over the preceding year or more, although he thought there was the 
possibility that it might recover. I cant find that JRM gave Mr H misleading information about 
the index or ERC at that time.
I also note that Mr H mentioned in that conversation that hed looked at the earlier 
documentation about the mortgage and this had shown an ERC of over £40,00 if the index 
fell by 0.5% in the first year. That document showed that the ERC in the first year could 
range between nothing and £80,000. 
As for Mr and Mrs Hs concern that the amount of the ERC is unfair, I would explain that in 
order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with loans 
made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that money. 
When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use a tranche of money for, it 
has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. Included in 
those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that happens 
some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender remains 
liable for its own cost of borrowing the money and the loss of long-term returns. In addition, if 
the lender repays its borrowing early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders are allowed by the regulator to charge ERCs to cover the costs to it of 
consumers repaying borrowing early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but 
its more commonly calculated for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar 
type) and based on a proportion being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the 
lenders experience of the likelihood of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. 
The regulations allow a lender to calculate ERCs in this way. It also fulfils the regulators requirement that a consumer is told in advance of taking the mortgage what the ERC will (or 
could) be and is given an example of it in monetary terms. 
The mortgage Mr and Mrs H took out was designed to be a long-term arrangement and 
certainly not designed to be paid off within a year of it starting. Given its nature, interest rates 
are long-term ones and so are the associated ERCs, as a lender is anticipating its money 
being tied up for potentially decades. 
JRM has explained that if interest rates have fallen by the time an early repayment is made, 
it will need to invest more funds at lower interest rates to replicate the expected income from 
the original mortgage investment. JRM uses the yield on gilts to calculate the cost to it of 
replacing the investment. At the point of offer it sets the rate associated with an individual 
mortgage at 0.2% above the benchmark for the index for that date  the target rate. This 
reflects the anticipated trading costs of replacing the mortgage investment. 
How ERCs are calculated is set out in the mortgage offer and I am satisfied that, based on 
Mr Hs conversation with JRMs member of staff in May 2019, that was understood at the 
time. In essence it is as simple as comparing the target rate with the gilt yield on the date of 
early repayment. If the gilt yield on the repayment date is lower than the target rate, it uses 
the difference to calculate an ERC, which is subject to a maximum amount. I am satisfied 
this method of calculation was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think the charge 
should be refunded.
Whilst Mr and Mrs H have said the increase in the ERC between their initial enquires and the 
completion of the sale was a shock, I think they were aware that it could change. I am also 
satisfied they were aware the ERC could be significantly more than it was at either the time 
of the redemption statement or the actual redemption. 
Latterly Mr and Mrs H introduced the reason for their decision to move and questioned why 
the ERC was not waived. I have reviewed all the evidence we have and it would not appear 
JRM was made aware that Mr and Mrs H were moving for medical and caring reasons. As 
such, JRM has confirmed it didnt consider whether the move fell within the criteria to have 
the ERC waived. However, it has said it will do so now, if Mr and Mrs H can provide it with 
relevant information and their GP is willing to complete a retrospective medical report. I will 
leave it to Mr and Mrs H to approach JRM if they want to pursue this option.
JRM didnt respond to my provisional decision, but I am satisfied that it received it.
Sadly Mr H passed away recently and I would like to offer my sympathy to Mrs H for her 
loss. A relative is now representing Mrs H in her complaint. A copy of my provisional 
decision was sent to the representative and additional time provided to respond, if they 
wanted to, was given. No response was received by the extended deadline.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comment or evidence, I see no reason to change 
my conclusions.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 
1 September 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman