DRN-1577328
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
May 2002. Mr O says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him the PPI.
Background
The PPI was taken out at the same time Mr O applied for his credit card. The PPI provided 
cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also would have paid a benefit in the 
event of death or critical illness.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr O's complaint. Mr O didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
In January 2020, I issued my provisional decision. In my provisional decision, I explained 
that I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Below is an extract of what I said:
"Bank of Scotland says Mr O would have been given a choice about the PPI. In support of 
this its provided us with a copy of Mr Os credit card application form. This shows Mr O was 
asked to tick a box for the PPI and sign separately for it. Looking at Mr Os credit card 
application form, theres a tick in the box for the PPI and Mr O signed for it. So, taking 
everything into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr O would have understood that 
the PPI was optional, and Im satisfied that he agreed to it.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mr O, and the policy seems to have been 
right for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. He was eligible for 
cover and I cant see that he would have been affected by any of things the policy didnt 
cover  such as pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr O has told us he didnt need PPI as he would have received generous sick pay from his 
employer if he was too unwell to work. He says this shows he didnt need the PPI. Ive 
thought about what Mr O has told us about his sick pay but I dont think this would have 
meant that the PPI wasnt right for him. The PPI would have paid out in addition to any sick 
pay Mr O would have received from his employer and would have potentially paid out for 
longer than Mr O would have received full pay  up to 12 months. The PPI also would have 
paid a benefit in the event that Mr O was made redundant, or in the unfortunate event of 
death or diagnosis of a critical illness.
Mr O has told us that at the time of sale, he had a policy in place which would have paid a 
benefit if he was unable to work. We asked Mr O for some additional information to see 
whether this policy would have made a difference to the outcome of this complaint. 
Unfortunately, Mr O has confirmed that he no longer holds any information about this policy.
In the absence of any information about this policy, Im unable to conclude that it would have 
meant that Bank of Scotland was wrong to recommend the PPI to Mr O.
I also havent seen anything to make me think that the PPI was unaffordable for Mr O when 
he took out the policy  or that he had a particular need to keep costs down. So, overall, I 
think Bank of Scotlands recommendation was suitable. And I think Mr O could have found 
the cover useful if he ever fell on hard times.In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mr O, Bank of Scotland also had to 
give him clear enough information about the PPI. I think its possible that Bank of Scotland 
didnt give him all the information it should have. But, even if the information wasnt as clear 
as it should have been, for the reasons Ive already explained, I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have stopped Mr O buying it.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Bank of Scotland 
doesnt need to refund everything Mr O paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered 
to give Mr O back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more."
I asked everyone to send me any further comments and information before I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr O nor Bank of Scotland responded with anything further for me to 
consider.
My findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As Ive not received any new evidence,
Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons.
My final decision
Based on what Ive said above and in my provisional decision, I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Margaux Stride-Noble
Ombudsman