DRN-3266299
The complaint
Mr I complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) lent irresponsibly when it 
approved a loan and later gave him a top up. 
What happened
In January 2016 Mr I applied for a loan of £9,950 with RBS. The application recorded that Mr 
I wanted to use the funds to buy a car. The application also said Mr I was employed with a 
net monthly income of £1,127. RBS completed a credit check and found Mr I had no adverse 
information or arrears recorded. In addition, RBS didnt find evidence of other debts in Mr Is 
name. The application was approved and Mr I took out the loan funds in cash the following 
day. 
In July 2018 Mr I applied for a top up loan for a further £6,000. Mr Is application said he was 
a service worker with a net income of £1,400 a month. RBS completed another credit check 
and asked Mr I to provide proof of his income before it would approve the loan. Mr I gave 
RBS weekly payslips covering a period of 13 weeks. They showed Mr Is income as £350 a 
week. RBS approved the loan application.
Last year, Mr I complained that RBS had lent irresponsibly and said it shouldve taken his 
age and lack of maturity into account when considering his applications. RBS didnt agree it 
had lent irresponsibly and didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. Mr I referred his complaint to this 
service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator thought RBS had dealt with Mr 
Is complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. 
Mr I asked to appeal and said no checks were completed before RBS agreed to proceed and 
that it had failed to take his circumstances into account. Mr I said he was consistently 
overdrawn in the months before his application was approved. As Mr I asked to appeal, his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service 
as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument 
to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. In addition, I can see Mr I has referred 
to CONC and the breaches he believes RBS has made. Ive taken his comments and the 
regulations into account when deciding how to resolve his complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say RBS had to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure Mr I could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. These affordability 
checks needed to be focused on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of whats 
considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors like: 
- The amount of credit;
- The total sum repayable and the size of regular repayments;
- The duration of the agreement
- The costs of the credit; and 
- The consumers individual circumstances. 
That means theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to 
consider the above points when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate. 
In this case, RBS asked Mr I for information about his circumstances at the time of the 
application as well as his income. Mr I said he was employed with a take home income of 
£1,127. The credit search RBS completed didnt find anything that caused it concern like 
defaults, arrears or a high level of debt. No mortgage was found and Mr I didnt give details 
of rent in his application. The loan amount was £258 a month. Based on this information, the 
loan appeared affordable. 
Mr I says RBS shouldve taken his age into account. But Im satisfied it did. Mr I was an adult 
at the time of the application and his age was within RBS lending criteria. I wouldnt expect 
RBS to treat an application from Mr I differently based on his age. 
Mr I says that if RBS had looked at his bank statements it wouldve found he was generally 
overdrawn. But the statements Ive seen dont show that. The statements show the account 
balance went overdrawn twice in May 2015, once for £15 and once for £5. Mr I has told us 
his income was generally made up of cash and Ive looked at the months preceding the loan 
application.  I cant see evidence of an income in line with the application, but I think the 
statements showed Mr I was able to sustainably maintain the loan payments. I havent been 
persuaded that RBS lent irresponsibly when it approved Mr Is loan in January 2016. 
In July 2018 Mr I was approved for a top up loan. RBS asked Mr I to supply evidence of his 
income and he supplied 13 weekly payslips. Whilst I understand Mr I was increasing his loan 
balance, I think its reasonable to say that at this point he had a repayment history with RBS. 
In addition, it carried out more comprehensive checks by asking for evidence of Mr Is 
income before the loan was approved. I also note another credit search was completed and 
didnt return adverse information or evidence Mr Is debts had substantially increased. 
Whilst I agree RBS couldve carried out better checks, I think the level of supporting 
information it obtained for the second loan was stronger. Ive looked at Mr Is bank 
statements for the months before the top up loan was approved. They dont show obvious 
evidence of financial difficulties and the total level of income in the two months before the 
loan was approved in line, if not higher, than declared in the application. I havent found that 
the bank statements show the loan was unaffordable or unsustainable for Mr I. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr I but I havent found that RBS lent irresponsibly in this case. As Im 
satisfied RBS dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman