DRN-1994297
The complaint
Mr R is complaining that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) wont meet a claim he 
made for items stolen during a burglary.
What happened
Mr R was away from home in late August 2019. He didnt set his alarm because a trusted 
friend was going to stay at this house for part of the time he was due to be away. Mr Rs 
friend called him late at night to say hed got back to the house after work to find Mr Rs car 
had been stolen and his home burgled.
Mr R returned home very upset, and the burglary was reported to the police. He also 
contacted Fairmead.
Fairmead agreed to look at the claim. It sent an assessor (a loss adjuster) to check what had 
happened and the value of items that had been stolen, as these were listed by Mr R at 
nearly £75,000  the maximum he was insured for on his policy. The loss adjuster said that 
although Mr R was significantly under-insured, he thought that was because Mr R didnt 
realise the number of items hed collected over the years and their combined value. 
Fairmead said if it had realised the value of Mr Rs possessions it wouldnt have insured him. 
This hasnt stopped it from considering his current claim, but Fairmead has told Mr R he 
must buy insurance elsewhere if he wants cover going forwards.
Theres a clause in Mr Rs policy that says Fairmead need not meet a claim for theft or 
burglary if force and violence hasnt been used to get into or out of the house. Fairmead 
noted that Mr Rs friend had repaired the locks on a patio door  but didnt keep the old locks 
for inspection. Fairmead also obtained a copy of the police reports of the crime and 
subsequent investigation, but said there was nothing in these to confirm force and violence 
had been used on the patio doors. Fairmead said it wouldnt meet the claim as the clause 
applied to Mr Rs circumstances.
Mr R complained but Fairmead wouldnt change its stance, so he asked us to review his 
complaint.
Our investigator agreed with Fairmead that there wasnt enough evidence to show the patio 
doors had been opened using both force and violence  so she thought Fairmead had acted 
fairly when it said it wouldnt meet the claim.
Mr R doesnt agree so Ive been asked to decide this complaint
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be very upsetting for Mr R, 
and I do have every sympathy for his position, and Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Theres no doubt Mr R was burgled. But theres a clause in the policy Mr R has which says 
Fairmead wont meet a claim for theft unless both force and violence have been used to 
get into or out of the house.
Force is usually accepted by this service as the act of, say, opening a door  by turning a 
handle perhaps. Violence is taken to mean using extra force or actions above and beyond 
that needed to (in this example) open the door. So a door with a shattered lock or broken 
glass would generally be said to have been opened with violence.
Mr R says the handle and door frame show scratches that indicate violence was used. Ive 
seen the photos and I cant say they show this  the scratches could be the sort of damage 
that can build up over the years. Mr R also says his friend replaced the locks that had been 
broken and has receipts to show new ones were bought. But unfortunately the old locks 
were disposed of  so no-one can now show the insurer that they were damaged.
Ive also considered the contents of the police report. It says the patio doors could be 
opened just by pulling. Mr R says this must have been with extreme force as they were 
locked. Im not persuaded the police description is of violence  although it might suggest 
these werent very secure doors in the first place. The police report also says there are no 
marks that suggest any instrument was used to break through the doors. 
Mr R also told the police that he thought he might know whod broken in  and that was 
someone whod had the keys to his home for some time, so could have had them copied 
before returning them. So its not impossible that keys were used to get in, even if (and I 
cant say definitely they were) the patio doors were also damaged. Using a key  even 
illegally  wouldnt meet the definition of violence.
Taking everything into account I think this means Fairmead can fairly refuse to meet his 
claim by applying the force and violence clause in his policy.
Im very sorry for the situation Mr R finds himself in, but I cant ask Fairmead to change its 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman