DRN-3668220
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) unfairly declined their claim 
for damage to their roof under their home insurance policy. They also complain about the 
poor service they received and the lack of communication during the claim process.
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is Ageas responsibility. But other parties were involved in their 
claim. Ive only referred to Ageas in my decision. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H had buildings and contents insurance with Ageas. On 2 March 2022, they 
reported a claim for storm damage to Ageas.  
Ageas said they looked at the weather data around the date of loss Mr and Mrs H had 
provided. And as the weather conditions were sufficient to potentially cause damage, they 
appointed surveyor to assess and validate the damage on their behalf. 
Mr and Mrs H contacted Ageas again on 8 March 2022. Ageas surveyor hadnt contacted 
them yet. They were concerned about further damage from future rain. And asked for Ageas 
permission to instruct their own contractor to mitigate further damage.
Mr and Mrs H didnt immediately hear from Ageas, so on 9 March 2022, they wrote to them 
again to tell them theyd instructed a contractor to attend their property so that mitigating 
steps could be taken to prevent further damage. They told Ageas that this hadnt been 
possible. They also said that as further heavy rain was forecast, it was important that action 
be taken soon to resolve the leak.  
On 10 March 2022, Ageas contacted their surveyor and asked them to get in touch with Mr 
and Mrs H as soon as possible.
Ageas surveyor attended Mr and Mrs Hs property to assess the damage. Their report noted 
that Mr and Mrs H told them that rain had come into their bathroom due to the storm 
conditions. It also said that the roof showed no damage when viewed from the ground. But 
that further investigation would be needed to see if there were any cracked tiles. The report 
also included photos of the roof showing solar panels. The surveyor reported that the cause 
of the damage needed further investigation. And concluded that the claim had been 
declined.
On 16 March 2022, Ageas wrote to Mr and Mrs H after their surveyor had assessed the 
damage. They said that the surveyor had found no sign of storm damage to the roof of the 
property. And therefore the claim couldnt be accepted. They told Mr and Mrs H that if they 
still believe there was storm damage to their roof, they should ask a contractor to provide a 
quote, along with photos of the damage, so that they could reassess the claim. 
Mr and Mrs H replied to Ageas. They said that the surveyor had been unable to view the roof 
- other than by photo  during his inspection. And that he hadnt accessed the loft space. 
They said that his inspection hadnt identified the cause, or the extent of the damage. And 
that all it had done was confirm that the roof tiles remained on the roof. They said that - in 
order to reduce the risk of further damage - theyd arranged for a contractor to inspect the 
roof and provide a report on the damage. And that this assessment had revealed that the 
leak had been caused by a broken tile and/or dislodging of, or breaking a solar panel fixing. 
Mr and Mrs H felt that their own contractors inspection had revealed that they had suffered 
damage following the storm. And therefore asked for the required work to be covered under 
their insurance. They said that in order to prevent further damage, they would arrange for the 
work to be carried out, but that they expected full compensation for costs. Mr and Mrs H 
provided further information about the cause of the damage in their 5 April 2022 email to 
Ageas. 
On 12 April 2022, Ageas declined the claim. They said that the cause of the damage was 
poor workmanship, which wasnt covered by the policy. They advised Mr and Mrs H to claim 
the repair costs from the original contractors who had broken the tile.
Mr and Mrs H told Ageas that it wasnt possible to claim the repair costs from the original 
contractor, as that company no longer traded. They felt that the damage had arisen due to a 
storm, and that Ageas had accepted the claim on that basis. 
I understand that Ageas didnt reply to Mr and Mrs H. So they brought their complaint to this 
service in May 2022. They said they werent aware of the broken and repaired tile as it was 
hidden under a solar panel. They wanted us to consider the following three main issues:
whether Ageas declination of the claim due to bad workmanship was fair.
the poor service they felt the surveyor had provided when theyd failed to establish 
the cause of the roof leak. 
whether Ageas had acted reasonably and professionally in failing to oversee the 
surveyor, or to properly manage the claim.
To resolve their complaint, Mr and Mrs H wanted Ageas to accept and pay their claim. 
Mr and Mrs H also complained to Ageas. They were unhappy about their decision to decline 
the claim. They were also unhappy with the quality of the inspection and the lack of 
communication, including their difficulty in being able to get through on the phone. 
Ageas issued their final response on the complaint on 1 June 2022. They noted that storm 
conditions were present at the time of the damage, so said theyd appointed surveyors to 
assess and validate the damage on their behalf. They maintained that theyd been correct to 
decline the claim on the basis of the poor workmanship Mr and Mrs Hs own assessment of 
the damage had identified. 
Ageas also said that their surveyor had confirmed that the inspection had been conducted 
appropriately and to their usual standard. They apologised for the lack of communication. 
But said that theyd been inundated with higher than usual claims which had created a 
backlog, and that on occasion service levels had been breached. 
Mr and Mrs H felt that their roof damage had occurred because of a storm. And that this had 
led to water ingress and the requirement for urgent repairs. They felt that the surveyor Ageas 
had instructed had carried out a substandard inspection and had failed to identify the cause 
of the problem. They also felt that Ageas had failed to ensure that the surveyor was suitably 
prepared to do the job required. And that theyd failed to monitor the performance of the 
surveyor following the inspection. Mr and Mrs H felt that Ageas hadnt fully investigated their complaint in that regard. They thought that the surveyor had unfairly rejected their claim 
without the further assessment it needed being carried out. They felt that Ageas had unfairly 
left the assessment and resolution of the problem causing the leak with them. 
Mr and Mrs H also questioned whether their subsequent assessment of how the leak had 
arisen fairly amounted to poor workmanship.  They felt that all parties Ageas had involved 
in their claim had provided poor service. 
Ageas asked their surveyor if they were able to confirm their declinature of Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim. They confirmed that they had had. They said that they had upheld Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint in respect of the lack of communication and delays connected to the claim. 
Our investigator considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. She didnt 
think that a storm had caused the damage. And she felt that the poor workmanship exclusion 
had been fairly applied. She also didnt consider that it was unreasonable that Mr and Mrs H 
had been required to establish the cause of the damage. Our investigator felt that Ageas 
couldve provided better service during the claim. But didnt think that had affected the claim 
outcome, or caused Mr and Mrs H to lose out. She also explained to Mr and Mrs H that, 
although they felt that Ageas shouldve overseen the surveyor to ensure the claim was 
handled properly, this wasnt something we expected insurers to do. And that instead, we 
would hold Ageas responsible for any action their surveyor had taken on their behalf. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigator. They made the following additional points:
Ageas seemed to be keen to refer the complaint to this service. They felt this showed 
that Ageas felt we would exonerate them from any liability or criticism.
They felt that this service allowed insurance companies to operate without due 
regard to customer expectations, customer service, or acceptable operational 
standards. And also to construct terms and conditions prejudicial to those who pay 
for the expected cover. They felt that this service seemed to be happy for Ageas to 
continue operations without any guidance, condemnation, corrections, or requirement 
to improve. Our investigator explained to Mr and Mrs H what the role of this service 
was. And that we dont have the powers to make recommendations for a business to 
change their overall approach to the service they offer. Those powers are held by the 
regulator, the FCA. 
They felt that in dismissing the delays they considered the surveyor and Ageas had 
caused, our investigator hadnt considered the potential that additional damage 
mightve been caused. Mr and Mrs H felt that this was an inexcusable argument that 
absolved insurers from acting in a timely manner. 
Mr and Mrs H felt that the repaired tile had been satisfactory for six and a half years. 
And that the storm had caused it to fail. They didnt agree that the damage wasnt 
caused by the storm. And felt that their claim should be covered under the terms of 
their policy. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why. Mr and Mrs H clearly feel very strongly about their complaint and have provided a lot of 
detailed points. I havent commented on every point they raised in my decision, but Ive 
thoroughly read and considered all of their arguments, and those of Ageas. 
For any insurance claim to be successful, the policyholder must establish that they have a 
valid claim. In essence, the policyholder must show that an insured event occurred which 
caused damage or a loss. Its not for the insurer to establish the claim on the policyholders 
behalf. If the policyholder is unable to meet this requirement the claim will fail at that stage. It 
is only once the policyholder has established a valid claim that the insurer is required to 
demonstrate that a policy exclusion applies to defeat it. Therefore, until and unless Mr and 
Mrs H have established a valid claim, it isnt Ageas responsibility to establish what caused 
the leak.
Mr and Mrs Hs policy provided cover for damage caused to their property by a range of 
insured events. The events were listed in the policy and are commonly found in most policies 
on the market. Examples included flood, fire and storm. 
The cost of repairing the leak isnt covered by the policy simply because it was damaged 
whilst the policy was in existence. Its only covered if Mr and Mrs H can show that it was 
damaged by an insured event. 
Mr and Mrs H felt that the leak occurred because of the storm conditions. Ageas agreed that 
storm conditions had been present. Because of this, they sent their surveyor to assess 
whether the storm conditions had been the main cause of the damage reported under the 
claim.
The surveyor found no evidence of damage consistent with that a storm would cause. And 
didnt identify the cause of the leak. Mr and Mrs H complain that he shouldve identified the 
cause of the leak. They dont feel that his assessment was carried out appropriately. They 
feel that Ageas and the surveyor left them to work out what the problem was. I agree this 
was the case. But, as I noted earlier, it was Mr and Mrs Hs responsibility to show that an 
insured event caused the damage. Ageas sent their surveyor to assess the damage 
because they agreed that storm conditions had been present. But when their surveyor found 
no evidence of missing tiles, or other damage he would expect to see after a storm, he felt 
the claim should be declined. I dont consider this was unreasonable, as there was no 
obvious evidence that the storm had caused the leak. And as I noted earlier, it wasnt 
Ageass responsibility to establish the claim on Mr and Mrs Hs behalf.
After their contractor assessed the cause of the leak, Mr and Mrs H were able to confirm that 
a roof tile had been broken and then repaired by a previous contractor, when solar panels 
were being fitted to their roof. They told Ageas, who then declined the claim on the basis of 
poor workmanship. 
Mr and Mrs H felt that the repaired roof tile only failed due to the storm. They felt that the 
repaired tile had been satisfactory for six and a half years. Therefore they consider that their 
claim should still be paid. But Im not satisfied that theyve provided any evidence that the 
storm was the predominant cause of the leak. I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H dont agree, 
but Im of the view that the tile wouldnt have failed in the storm if it hadnt already been 
broken and then repaired. It seems most likely from the evidence provided that the storm 
conditions merely highlighted an existing problem with the tile, rather than being the 
dominant cause of the damage. I therefore conclude that Mr and Mrs H havent satisfactorily 
established that the damage they claimed for was caused by an insured event. 
The policy terms and conditions state the following:Storm
Whats not covered
We wont pay for rain or water damage to the inside of your buildings if the water gets into 
your house as a result of poor workmanship, bad design or wear and tear.
Given the statement in the terms and conditions, I consider that Ageas acted fairly, and in 
line with the terms and conditions, when they declined to cover the damage from the leak on 
the basis of poor workmanship.
I next considered the service Ageas provided to Mr and Mrs H during the course of their 
claim.
Mr and Mrs H have told this service about repeated long waits to contact Ageas by phone. 
And a lack of urgency in progressing the claim. They said that Ageas made no attempt to 
urgently assess the damage to their roof, which they felt couldve got worse with future bad 
weather. I acknowledge that this wouldve been worrying and frustrating.  
From what Ive seen, there was some delay to the claim. And Mr and Mrs H werent kept 
updated in the way I wouldve expected, so they had to chase for updates. Ageas have 
apologised for this. And explained that they sometimes failed to meet their service standards 
due to the volume of claims at the time. 
Ive carefully considered if an apology was enough in these circumstances. I appreciate that 
Mr and Mrs H were inconvenienced. But, the delay didnt affect the outcome of the claim, 
which I consider was fairly declined, two weeks after it was first reported. Nor did the delay 
cause Mr and Mrs H to incur costs that they wouldnt otherwise have incurred.
Mr and Mrs H felt that they were unfairly left to work out what had caused the leak. But they 
were required, under the terms of their policy, to do this. And Ageas fairly offered to 
reconsider the claim if and when Mr and Mrs H had established the cause of the leak.
Ageas did reconsider the claim after Mr and Mrs Hs contractor had assessed the cause of 
the damage. But as that assessment revealed that a repaired tile was most likely the cause 
of the damage, they fairly declined the claim on the basis of poor workmanship, which isnt 
covered under the policy. It should be noted that most, if not all, insurance policies include 
the same exclusion. So I consider it a reasonable one. 
I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs H felt that any delay from Ageas couldve led to further 
damage. But in my view, Mr and Mrs H had misunderstood that their claim would be fully 
covered when Ageas first responded to their claim. Ageas had at that point only accepted 
that there had been a storm, not that it had caused the damage being reported. From what 
Ive seen, this led to Mr and Mrs Hs expectation that Ageas were responsible for both the 
current damage and any future damage. But the evidence showed that this wasnt the case, 
as the damage had been caused by poor workmanship. 
As Ageas werent responsible for the initial damage, they werent responsible for any further 
damage. They gave their decision to decline to Mr and Mrs H in two weeks, which I consider 
is a reasonable timeframe. Overall, Im satisfied that the delays didnt cause Mr and Mr H to 
suffer any major impact. And Im persuaded that an apology from Ageas for poor 
communication was enough under the circumstances.
I know my decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs H. But I dont uphold the complaint. Im sorry 
that they feel that they havent been treated fairly by Ageas. But, taking all of the evidence into account, Im not persuaded Ageas were unfair or unreasonable when they declined the 
claim. And although I can see that the service wasnt what was expected, Im of the view that 
Ageas apology was sufficient under the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman